                                             Document of
                                         The World Bank

                                     FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                               ReportNo: 25376-NA




                                PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                 ON A

                                         PROPOSEDGRANT

                              INTHE AMOUNT OFUS$7.1MILLION

                                 TO THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA




                                                  FOR

          INTEGRATEDCOMMUNITY-BASED ECOSYSTEMMANAGEMENT (ICEMA)

                                             May 3,2004




AFTS4
Africa Regional Office
This documenthas a restricteddistributionandmay be usedby recipients only inthe performanceoftheir
official duties. Its contentsmay not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                (Exchange RateEffective September 1993)

                    CurrencyUnit = NamibiaDollar
                             lNAD = US$.149
                              US$1 = NAD6.67

                              FISCAL YEAR
                            April 1  --March3I

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AG        Auditor General
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CBIEM     Community Based IntegratedEcosystem Management
CBNRM     Community BasedNatural Resource Management
CDD       Community-driven Development
CFF       Community FundingFacility
CQ        Selection BasedConsultants Qualifications
DEA       Directorate o f Environmental Affairs
DOF       Directorate of Forestry
DOT       Directorate o f Tourism
DPWM      Directorate o f Parks and Wildlife Management
DRFN      Desert ResearchFoundation inNamibia
DRM       Directorate of Resource Management
DSS       Directorate o f Scientific Services
EA        EnvironmentalAssessment
EIF       EnvironmentalInvestmentFund
EMP       EnvironmentalManagement Plan
EO1       Expressiono f Interest
ESA       Environmentaland Social Assessment
FENATA    Federal Namibian Tourism Association
FFEM      France Global Environment Facility
FIRM      Forum for IntegratedRural Development
FMR       Financial Management Report
FMS       FinancialManagement System
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GEF       Global Environment Fund
GPTF      Game Product Trust Fund
GRN       Government of the Republic o f Namibia
IA        Implementing Agency
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstructionand Development
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICR       ImplementationCompletion Report
IEM       Integrated EcosystemManagement
IFAC      International Standards on Auditing

                                                             FOROFFICIAL,USEONLY




    Kfw                 German Development Cooperation (Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau)
    LCS                 Least-Cost Selection
    MAWRD               MinistryofAgriculture, Water andRuralDevelopment
    M&E                 Monitoringand Evaluation
    MET                 MinistryofEnvironmentandTourism
    MLRR                MinistryofLands, Resettlement andRehabilitation
    MRLGH               MinistryofRegional and LocalGovernment andHousing
    NACOBTA             Namibia Community Based Tourism Association
    NACSO               National Association o f Conservancy Support Organizations
    NAPCOD              National Program to Combat Desertification
    NCB                 National Competitive Bidding
    NEPRU               NamibianEconomic Policy ResearchUnit
    NGOs                Non- Governmental Organizations
    NPC                 National Planning Commission
    NRM                 National Resource Management
    OP                  Operational Program
    PA                  Protected Area
    PAD                 Project Appraisal Document
    PIP                 Project ImplementationPlan
    PMR                 Project Management Reports
    PO                  Project Office
    PTO                 Permissionto Occupy
    QBS                 Quality-Based Selection
    QCBS                Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
    RCSA                Regional Center for Southern Africa
    RNRMP               Regional Natural Resource Management Program
    SDP                 Standard Disbursement Percentage
    SOE                 Statement o f Expenses
    TOR                 Terms of reference
    TSAP                Technical and Scientific Advisory Panel
    USAID               UnitedStates Agency for International Development




                                  Vice President:   Callisto Madavo
                        Country ManagerBirector:    PamelaCox
                         Sector ManagedDirector:    Richard Scobey
                  Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Christophe Crepin




This document has a restricted distributionandmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without W o r l d Bank authorization.


                                               NAMIBIA
       INTEGRATED COMMUNITY-BASEDECOSYSTEMMANAGEMENT(ICEMA)


                                              CONTENTS




A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page

   1. Project development objective                                                       2
   2. Key performance indicators                                                          2

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
   2. Mainsector issues and Government strategy                                            5
   3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  11

C. Project Description Summary

   1. Project components                                                                  14
   2. Key policy and institutional reforms supportedby the project                        17
   3. Benefits and target population                                                      18
   4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       20

D. Project Rationale

   1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           24
   2. Major related projects financed by the Bankandor other development agencies         25
   3. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design                                  27
   4. Indications o f borrower andrecipient commitment and ownership                      28
   5. Value added o f Bank and Global support in this project                             28

E. Summary Project Analysis

   1. Economic                                                                            29
   2. Financial                                                                           30
   3. Technical                                                                           30
   4. Institutional                                                                       31
   5. Environmental                                                                       35
   6. Social                                                                              38
   7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  41

F. Sustainability and Risks

   1. Sustainability                                                    47
   2. Critical risks                                                    49
   3. Possible controversial aspects                                    51


G. Main Conditions

   1. Effectiveness Condition                                           52
   2. Other                                                             52

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                          53

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                            53



Annexes

Annex 1: Project DesignSummary                                          54
Annex 2: DetailedProject Description                                    61
Annex 3:   Estimated Project Costs                                      73
Annex 4: Incremental Cost Analysis                                      74
Annex 5:   Financial Summary                                            84
Annex 6: (A) ProcurementArrangements                                    85
           (B)Financial ManagementandDisbursementArrangements           94
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                    102
Annex 8:   Documents inthe Project File                                 105
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                 107
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                           108
Annex 11: STAP Roster Technical Review                                  110
Annex 12: Policy Framework for National CBNRM Program                   121
Annex 13: Implementation and Funding Arrangements                       138
Annex 14: Environmental Threats Analysis                                144
Annex 15: Socio-economic and Environmental Context                      148
Annex 16: Conservancy Profiles and PrioritizationProcess                155
Annex 17: CBNRM lessons learned                                         162
Annex 18: Monitoring and Evaluation Mechanisms                          166
Annex 19: Community-Funding Facility (CFF)                              172
Annex 20: Local governance andparticipation incommunal conservancies    179

                                                     NAMIBIA
                              IntegratedCommunity-BasedEcosystemManagement(ICEMA)
                                         ProjectAppraisal Document
                                               Africa RegionalOffice
                                                      AFTS4

Date: May 3, 2004                                         Team Leader: Christophe Crepin
Sector ManagerAIirector: Richard G. Scobey                Sector@): Generalagriculture, fishingandforestry sector
Country ManagerOIirector: PamelaCox                       (100%)
Project ID: PO73135                                       Theme@): Biodiversity(P), Environmentalpolicies and
FocalArea: M Multi-focal area
                   -                                      institutions(P), Landmanagement(S)


 [ ]Loan            [ ] Credit    [XI Grant     [ ]Guarantee        [ ]Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): $0.00
Financing Plan (US$m):           Source                                Local                Foreign        Total
BORROWEWRECIPIENT                                                                                             6.11
US: AGENCY FORINTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT                                                                        10.29
(USAID)
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                                           0.18                0.00          0.18
EC: EUROPEANCOMMISSION                                                      2.10                0.90          3.00
FINLAND: MINISTRY FORFOREIGNAFFAIRS                                         0.70                0.30          1.oo
FRANCE:FRENCHAGENCY FORDEVELOPMENT                                          1.23                0.52          1.75
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                                 2.27                4.83          7.10
GERMANY: KREDITANSTALT FURWIEDERAUFBAU                                      2.10                0.90          3.00


IV."..                                                           I        L A . " ,            1V.J-r         32.43
 BorrowerlRecipient: REPUBLICOF NAMIBIA
NationalPlanningCommission(NPC)
 Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT AND TOURISM (MET)
 Ministry ofEnvironment andTourism(MET)
 Address: Private Bag 13306,Windhoek, Namibia
 Contact Person: Dr.MalanLindeque, PermanentSecretary
 Tel: +264-61-2842185               -   Fax: +264-61-2842216                      Email: mlindeque@met.gov.na,
malan.l@mweb.com.na
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):                                                                           4




 Project implementation period: 5 years
 Expected effectiveness date: 0713112004 Expected closing date: 0113112010
PCIPW rem R."m/n2m

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)

The project development objective is "Community-based integrated ecosystem management
practices are supported by the National CBNRM framework and used by targeted conservancies".

The project global objective is "to restore, secure and enhance key ecosystem processes in
targeted conservancies with biodiversity and land conservation and sustainable use as a goal."

Backgroundto the project
The project's on-the-ground activities will be targeted to communally managed lands represented
through Namibia's "communal conservancy network". Therefore, the project also provides direct
institutional support to the Ministry o f Environment and Tourism (MET), which is the country's
lead governmental agency responsible for guiding and overseeing the communal conservancy
network under its "National Community-Based Natural Resource Management (CBNRM)
Program" (see annex 2 for more details on CBNRM Program and communal conservancies). The
CBNRM Program in Namibia i s based on an initial policy and legal framework which grants
rights over wildlife and tourism management and uses to communities on their lands once they are
organized as "conservancies". Conservancies are multiple-use zones with legal status, registered
with the authorities (Ministry o f Environment and Tourism), where residents currently continue
farming but collectively manage wildlife in order to benefit both from better natural resource
management practice, and from capturing tourism revenues. A communal conservancy consists in
setting aside part or all o f the land o f a given community with the intention to conserve and
valorise wildlife through its sustainable consumptive and non-consumptive uses within
ecosystem-related activities. The committees that run conservancies aim to be multifunctional,
serving as management structures for natural resources utilization and benefit distribution (see
annex 20 for local governance and participation). The establishment o f communal conservancies i s
seen as a fundamental step in improving local management capacity and linking it to benefits for
communities in communal areas, promoting sustainable environmental management and rural
development. The changes associated with the National CBNRM Program are expected to impact
differently on rural households depending on individual and communal factors like income levels,
livestock wealth, tourism income, wild resource income, cash income, conservancy involvement,
degree of common property management, employment and education as well as resource based
factors.
The project targets registered communal conservancies (see criteria for project intervention sites
and conservancy profiles inannex 16).

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Performance indicators are meant to judge the overall performance and impact o f the project (in
terms o f outcomes and outputs). They are used as a guide for overall project monitoring and
inform supervision and evaluation o f the project as a whole. Indicators require a measurable
starting baseline against which to judge progress; they also are measured against a target,
including, as possible mid-term targets. Therefore, all ICEMA key performance indicators will be
measured annually against a baseline assessment. The key performance indicators measuring


                                                - 2 -

progress towards achieving the project development and global environmental objectives by the
endo f the project are:

For the project development objective:
1. Around 25,000      km2o f communal land under integrated sustainable ecosystem management as
    defined by the National CBNRM Program.
2. 80 % of targeted conservancies committees are effectively managingand deploying efficiently
    and sustainably their natural, human, financial and other resources according to the objectives
    of their conservancy plans.
3. MET as CBNRM lead agency established effective partnerships with other agencies and
    institutions, including local governments, NGOs and private sector to enable achievements o f
    project objective inan efficient and effective manner.

For the project global objective:
1. Populations o ftargeted threatened fauna and flora remain at current levels or have increased
    intargeted conservancies (5 speciesspecified).
2. Biologicalmonitoring indicates that the integrity o f the target sites remains secure with no
    significant change inhabitat.

Baseline assessments for these PGO key performance indicatorsusingexisting information
including spatial comparison outside target sites will be undertaken 6 months after effective date.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country AssistanceStrategy (CAS) goalsupported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number:        Date of latestCAS discussion:

There i s no CAS available for Namibia. The current Bank involvement in Namibia focuses on
providing technical assistance to support the government's efforts to reduce poverty, to support
decentralization and urban development, to analyze various sources of growth and to identify
suitable options to strengthen the human capital development including knowledge management.
The Project will build on and make fbrther contributions to these forementioned activities as it
aims to strengthen sustainable conservation and integrated ecosystem management through
investments in human and natural capital, institutional strengthening and increased ecosystem and
community-based small-scale enterprise development. Furthermore, the continuous dialogue
between the Bank and the Government o f the Republic o f Namibia on the management o f its
highly valuable natural resources and in particular their environmental assets has led to the
preparation o f two additional WB/GEF supportedoperations.

la. Global Operational strategyprogram objective addressed by the project:
Namibia has ratified the Biodiversity Convention (1995), the Climate Change Convention (1995)
and the Desertification Convention (1997). A National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan was
validated in (2002). The proposed project i s part o f the Government o f Namibia's efforts to
implement this strategy and action plan and to address national and global environmental
priorities.




                                                 - 3 -

 The activities proposed under this project are fully consistent with the priorities o f the GEF
 operational programs for integrated ecosystem management (OP 12) as well as for arid and
  semi-arid ecosystems (OP 1). The recognition and conservation o f ecosystem structures and
  functioning to maintain, increase and diversify ecological services incommunal conservancies, are
 priority long-term targets of the integrated management approach at appropriate spatial and
 temporal scales promoted by MET as well as other stakeholders. The integrated ecosystem
 management approach represents a strategy that promotes conservation and sustainable use o f
 natural resources in an equitable way and aims to reach a balance o f the Convention on
 Biodiversity interlinked objectives: conservation; sustainable use; and the fair and equitable
  sharing o f the benefits arising out o f the utilization of natural resources.

  Specifically, the project i s compatible with OP 12 opportunities to achieve multiple focal area
 benefits because it would focus on:
   1. Attack root causes o f interlinked threats to biodiversity, land degradation, vulnerability and
      adaptation to climate change
  11. Integrating activities that address local level issues, alternative livelihood systems and their
 ...  global benefits
 111. Facilitating cross-sectoral institutional strengthening and development o f strategic frameworks
      for IEM for multiple local and global benefits
 iv. Supporting policy andregulatory reforms of relevance for IEM
  V.  Flexible monitoring and evaluation systems to track and help understand long-term ecosystem
      indices and their linkages to on the ground management
 vi. Participatory capacity building and technical assistance for targeted local communities for
      enhanced management o f critical species, habitats, and ecosystems and service providers such
      as the MET and its decentralizedstructures and other stakeholders.
vii. Sharing experiences (traditional and modern knowledge) and dissemination o f best practices
      for replication and policy recommendations
viii. Supporting inclusion of livestock and crop management approaches in community resource
      plans.

  Further, the project responds to GEF's cross-cutting and biodiversity as well as capacity-building
  strategic priorities as outlined in its Strategic Business Plan FY04-FY06. In line with GEF
  biodiversity's SP2, biodiversity conservation will be enhanced and mainstreamed into the various
  production landscapes (mainly wildlife, forestry, tourism) which are present throughout Namibia.
  ICEMA's approach i s based on lessons learned o f the country's pilot CBNRM activities. Its
  additionality is based on the development and implementation o f a more strategic and integrated
  approach to CBNRM and on the adaptive capacity development plan for its main stakeholders (in
 particular at governmental level and local level). Innovative elements include the setting-up of a
  community       funding     facility     for     ecosystem     based     sustainable use     activities;
  community-government-private sector partnerships for conservation and socio-economic benefits
  for rural communities and integration o f integrated ecosystem management into national sector
  policies and legislation as well as in local resource use plans. Targeted capacity-building and
  institutional support will be essential for sustainability and replication. A detailed monitoring and
  evaluation system and knowledge management plan will allow to generate and disseminate further
  lessons learned and good practices for integrated ecosystem management throughout the project



                                                      - 4 -

lifetime and beyond (biodiversity's SP4). More importantly, the project aims to develop and test a
model for OP 12 monitoring and evaluation systems with selected communities and service
providers.

The project follows guidance from the COP o f the Convention on Biological Diversity as it
addresses in situ conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity. CBNRM appears as an
established concept under the CBD, and i s o f particular relevance to COP guidance on
involvement o f local people. National and local level conservancy and biodiversity monitoring
and evaluation will be essential, this would contribute to the implementation o f COP guidance on
identification and monitoring indicators. Furthermore, the COP provides guidance on innovative
measuresrelatedto conservancy-private sector partnership and associated awarenessraising.

The project also responds to directions from the Conventionto Combat Desertification (CCD). In
the Convention's framework, human-induced pressure on natural resources, which is identifiedby
the CCD as the main cause for desertification processes, is seen mainly as a result of poverty.
Therefore, income generation, participatory approaches and community involvement are regarded
as key elements for halting the world-wide spread o f land degradation. Since COP 6 in Havana,
the UNCCD is now recognized as a tool for rural poverty eradication. The convention's
implementation with sustainable land management (SLM) aims to close the gap between scientific
information available at the global level and the ability to use it at the local level and to
mainstream SLM into poverty reduction strategies and the New Partnership for Afiican
Development (NEPAD).

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Natural resource management and local, national and global environmental protection inNamibia
involves a broad range o f public (Government, mainly MET, MAWRD, MLRRand MRLGH) and
private stakeholders (rural communities, NGOs, conservancies and private sector). Three
inter-linked priority issues for these target groups need to be stressed: (i)Conservation and
sustainable use o f Namibia's biodiversity and resource base; (ii)
                                                                 Capacity for scaling-up CBNRM;
and, (iii)Livelihoodoptions fur rural communities.

2.1. Issue: Conservation and sustainable use of Namibia's biodiversity and resource base
Namibia's ecosystems provide essential life sustaining services (food, fiber, medicine, tourism
opportunities, shelter, etc.) and vital genetic material (required to enhance domestic crop and
livestock species). Direct and indirect use (crop cultivation, woodlands, drylands, wetlands and
marine fisheries; non-consumptive tourism and trophy hunting) o f Namibia's biodiversity
contributes to over 40 % o f the GDP. The most important wild products include: meat, thatching
grass, medicinal products and veld foods (from nuts, fruits, leaves, roots and bark), firewood,
wood for construction and woodcarving. Wildlife harvesting represents the base o f subsistence
economies in rural areas (an estimate o f 33 % total household consumption in rural areas comes
from wild foods). These livelihoodoptions depend greatly on the ecosystem characteristics.

The greater part of Namibia consists o f arid and semi-arid rangelands with little to no permanent
surface water. These areas, while being less diverse, support the megafauna such as wildebeest,
buffalo, giraffe, zebra, oryx, kudu, eland, hartebeest, springbok, etc. and their associated large



                                                - 5 -

predators, including lion, cheetah and hyaena. Other areas have particularly high proportions of
endemic species, endemic to both the southern African subregion and to Namibia. The southern
African endemics are part of the so-called "south-west arid" zone, which encompasses the
Kalahari ecosystem. Nowadays, Namibia's arid savanna systems and dry woodland areas have
reverted to savanna-type systems as a result of land degradation processes and extensive
deforestation. The results of increasing bush encroachment, soil erosion and soil salinization are
causes o f economic loss and escalating poverty through declining agricultural production and a
loss o f food security. Namibia's northern areas contain highly diverse ecosystems, particularly at
the interface o f wetlands, riparian belts and dry woodlands. They support important populations
of globally threatened species, including desert elephant, wild dog, wattled crane and slaty egret.
It can be assumed, that these areas that have the highest humanpopulation and livestock densities
and that have been subject to extensive land clearing are those that have suffered the highest
losses inbiodiversity.

While 14% o f Namibia has been set aside as state-controlled parks and reserves, the protected
area network is heavily skewed towards the Namib biome, leaving savannas, woodlands and
Karoo biome badly under-represented (only 4 o f 13 vegetation types are comprehensively
protected). Further, entire vegetation types are wholly unprotected and face imminent threat of
degradation from the growing needs o f Namibia's human population. However, currently 17
registered conservancies are adjacent to Protected Areas and thereby increasing the viability o f
these PAS.Most o f the valuable forests are found in the north o f the country and are situated on
communal land. Forests constitute an important resource for rural communities because o f their
wood products, habitat and potential role in providing locations for community-based tourism.
Overexploitation o f forests and uncontrolled cutting o f trees for various purposes inthe North i s
prevalent and woodland is cleared for shifting cultivation. State regulation o f wildlife and forest
products i s extremely difficult to enforce due to large distances from administrative centers and
lack o f govement resources.

There are several areas of special ecological importance in Namibia which require urgent
conservationprotection:
0   the Kaoko escarpment including the Brandberg and nearby inselbergs and granite domes
    (communal lands including conservancies)
0   the southern Namib centre of endemism inthe Sperrgebiet (state land and freehold farming in
    the coastal zone)
0   the woodlands, floodplains and riparian vegetation of the perennial rivers and surrounding
    areas inthe Caprivi (communal lands including conservancies)
0   the mountain savanna and karstveld o f the Otavi mountainlands (freehold land, not within
    project intervention area)
0   the dwarf shrub savanna of the Brukkaros crater (communal land with emerging conservancies
    inthe South).

The three main landresource use activities which impact the sustainable management and use
options for the key Namibian ecosystems are (i)    livestock keeping, (ii) natural resource use,
                                                                          wild
and (iii) community tourism activities. Without an integrated ecosystem management planning
framework, human settlers and livestock may compete with wildlife for sparse sources of water



                                                - 6 -

and grazing inhighly fragile ecosystemsthat couldmost appropriately be managed and sustainably
utilizedas for example wildlands for Namibia's rapidly growing highvalue ecotourism market.

Government stratem:
Namibia i s one o f very few countries in the world that enshrines the concept o f environmental
protection in its Constitution. Article 95 (1) of the Constitution states the following: "The State
shall actively promote and maintain the welfare of the people by adopting policies aimed at the
following: Maintenance of ecosystems, essential ecological processes and biological diversity o f
Namibia and utilization of living natural resources on a sustainable basis for the benefit of all
Namibians, both present and future". A key part o f the government's environmental and
biodiversity strategy in rural Namibia i s the development and implementation of the National
CBNRM program, for which the Ministryo f Environment and Tourism i s the lead agency.

The National CBNRM Program is an important mechanism for implementing the goals and
policies o f the Government of Namibia to fulfill the constitutional obligation of utilizing natural
resources for the benefit of all Namibians including those living in rural communities and who
were previously disadvantaged. In particular, CBNRM offers the potential o f extending
biodiversity conservation and management beyond Namibia's protected areas network while
providingat the same time for corridors through which wildlife can also safely move from one P A
to another (e.g. many conservancies in Kunene and Erongo Region providing links between
Etosha National Park and Skeleton Coast National Park thereby restoring traditional migration
route of desert elephants and mountain zebra) . Inmany instances, biodiversity hotspots are being
or potentially considered to be incorporated into emerging conservancies (e.g. the Tsiseb
Conservancy around the Brandberg Mountains, the Hobatere area in the #Khoadi//Hoas
Conservancy, the Marienfluss Conservancy including the Otjihipa and Hartmann mountains),
while conservancies established adjacent to existing parks and/or protected areas (e.g. Etosha
National Park) greatly expands quality habitats and seasonal movement patterns for fauna. These
corridors for gene flow make provision for the maintenance o f viable biodiversity rich populations
not only within Namibia, but also across international boundaries between South Africa, Angola,
Botswana, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
Furthermore, the national CBNRM Program, has gained credibility within Namibia and i s widely
recognized and supported in NDP I1 principles (2001). The NDP I1 i s considered as the first
five-year development program o f Namibia's vision 2030 document. The document presents inten
o f its 48 chapters CBNRM development approaches and/or conservancies as cross-cutting
strategies to further sustainable natural resource management, rural development, and poverty
alleviation and equity. In particular, CBNRM and conservancies are seen as vehicles for
achievement o f the NDP I1 development goal no. 2 and its respective objectives: "Promote
environmental and ecological sustainability" with three objectives: (i)      Policy and legislative
framework for sound environmental management and sustainable use of natural resources inplace
by 2005; (ii)Institutional arrangements for promoting integrated and coordinated approaches to
sustainable development operational by 2005; and (iii)   Programs on biodiversity, pollution and
waste management and urban environment operational by 2005. The vision o f NDP2 i s
"Sustainable and equitable improvement inthe quality of life o f all the people inNamibia". NDP2
National Development Objectives include: (i)to reduce poverty, (ii)to increase employment
opportunities through the expansion o f the national economy, (iii)to promote economic



                                                - 7 -

empowerment, (iv) to promote economic prosperity through high and sustainable economic
growth and development: (v) to reduce inequalities in income distribution, (vi) to reduce
development inequalities among the country's regions, (vii) to promote gender equality and equity
and (viii) enhancing environmental and ecological sustainability.

Inaddition, the MET participated inthe development of the Rural Profile Strategic Framework
(Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Rural Development) to raise CBNRM as an opportunity to
promote rural livelihood and the potential of             non-timber forest products for rural
micro-enterprises. MET's contributions to rural development relate to the first 2 pillars o f the
RPSF (Employment and income opportunities created; Improved access to resources in a
sustainable manner).

Under MET's leadership, the national CBNRM Program responds to national development and
(global) environmental priorities by:
 i.supporting sustainable use andconservation ofNamibia's uniqueecosystemsandrelated
     biodiversity,
 ii.promoting appropriate landmanagement schemes inanenvironment where availability of
     water and suitable rangeland as well as land degradation are the key limiting factors to
     sustainable management of scarce resources,
iii.providingdiversifiedlivelihoodstrategiesthroughresponsibilityoverlocalresources,thereby
     addressing the root causes o f threats to unsustainable resource and ecosystem management,
     and
iv. promoting participatory, accountable and democratic systems o f local and regional
     governance.

 MET aims to mainstream the National CBNRM Program achievements and objectives into other
 ministerial sector policies and regulations. Its own legal and policy framework is currently
 reviewedto ensure consistency and comprehensiveness o f long-term conservation and protection
 of biodiversity and the environment while utilizing and up-grading mechanisms such as the
 national CBNRM Program and associated sustainable long-term funding mechanism, such as the
 EnvironmentalInvestment Fund.

 2.2. Issue: Capacityfor scaling-up CBNRM
 The institutional structures at national, regional and local level responsible for natural resource
 management show insufficient capacity to cope with the needs o f the expanding conservancy
 network and to develop a short and medium-term strategy for ensuring long-term sustainability,
 strengthening and scaling-up successful CBNRM models. The dynamic expansion of the
 conservancy network together with the needto establish linkages of the CBNRM Program to the
 on-going decentralization process at regional level has become a critical political issue which
 requires a strategic adaptation and significant investments. Government and CBNRM support
 organizations will need an increasingly different set of tools, staff qualifications, organizational
 functions, monitoring systems, business opportunities and funding mechanisms to deliver
 results-oriented and cost-efficient services to conservancies. These issues, if not addressed
 quickly, might jeopardize the sustainability of the CBNRM approach marked by significant early
 well recognized success.



                                                 - 8 -

Government stratew:
The Ministry o f Environment and Tourism's approach to address the growing needs o f the
increasing and more diversified CBNRM Program i s based on several elements (i)         streamlining
and harmonizing policies and strategies and legal framework to CBNRM; (ii)delegation and
outsourcing o f non-core MET functions to Non-Governmental Organizations and other
institutions; (iii)moving to more result- rather than process-oriented services; (iv) targeted
training and capacity building of MET central and decentralized staff related to specific planning,
management and monitoring tools; (v) developing a comprehensive and integrated CBNRM
monitoring and evaluation program with linkages to public education, awareness and
participation; and (v) establishing a sustainable long-term funding mechanism.
With regard to the latter, the Ministry of Environment and Tourism (MET) and its partner
organizations recognized that the government's budgetary resources are limited and are being
sought after by a large and varied constituency. These agencies concluded that the financing of
environment and natural resources (ENR) activities cannot be met solely from the public coffers.
The N D P l identified the need for new and innovative financing outside o f government control
and specifically  made provisions for the establishment of an Environmental Investment Fund to
secure long-term financial support for the activities and programs designed to protect Namibia's
fragile environment while contributing to its economic development. It aims to support the
conservation and protection of environment and natural resource (ENR), preserve the national
biological diversity and provide economic support to the poorest sectors o f society. The EIF i s
expected to provide support only to projects and activities that actively demonstrate and support
this concept. The EIF is expected to raise local revenues via the introduction o f statutory fees as
determined by the Act o f the Parliament o f Namibia. I t i s a statutory and independent entity
outside the public service and has clear and separate roles and function from any GRN body or
entity.
2.3. Issue: Livelihood options fur ruralcommunities
Half o f the population i s considered to be living below the poverty line, and the top seven percent
of the population account for 48% of national consumption. Income distribution i s one o f the
most unequal in the world, with a Gini-coefficient o f 0.7. The unemployment rate is between
35% and 40%. Malnutrition rates in many rural areas are among the highest in southern Africa.
The national illiteracy rate in Namibia is officially 17%, but in some of the more remote areas
targeted by this project it is estimated to be as high as 40%. Gender inequality manifests itself in
different forms, including differential access to resources, inheritance structures favoring men,
women's exclusion from decision-making processes affecting their lives, etc. Poverty and
inequality are serious threats to sustainable development inNamibia.
The 67.6% of the population (1,8 million) lives inthe communal areas. The remaining 32.4% are
resident in the freehold lands with roughly 24% living in commercial urban centers. About 85 %
of Namibia's poor households are inthe rural and communal areas mainly inthe northernregions.
Rural communities depend for the most part on subsistence agriculture: limited dryland cropping
and/or livestock framing to a certain extent extraction o f forests and other plant materials. In
addition to the natural unpredictable environment, distant markets limits the development o f
farming in communal areas and agricultural incomes are low and variable. Rural-urban migration
i s a frequent pattern as livelihood alternatives appear to be very limited. Livestock i s the main
agricultural activity but constraints to sustainable management o f rangelands i s due to a lack o f


                                                  - 9 -

secure and exclusive group land tenure, and most importantly to scarce surface water. Subsidies
to communal and freehold livestock keepers (e.g. free water and fodder provision, drought
subsidies, rent-free land, veterinary services, price support etc.) have put further pressure on
communal pasture resources and encouraged over-stocking in the communal areas as well as
increase in bush encroachment. These factors led to an increasing diversification into wildlife
management and small-scale tourism activities which intends to improve the livelihood of rural
communities and to create a valuable buffer against drought and unsustainable management o f the
limitedresource base.

Government stratem:
The Government provides direct services to communities on communal land such as education,
health, water, energy, housing and agricultural extension or transfer payments such as pensions as
well as indirect services such as pricing o f services, investment promotion, taxes and subsidies,
and other macroeconomic incentives. Inreality, these services are currently insufficient to cover
the main needs o f disadvantaged people on communal land. Rural poor communities need a
greater access to education and participation in local development planning as well as share inthe
benefits from natural resource management (including wildlife management, tourism, forestry,
fishery, and agriculture).    NDP I1 restates that policies o f decentralization and devolution of
authority over natural resource management should be pursued from a point o f view of poverty
reduction becausethey tend to strengthen local-institutional capacity, increase participation of the
poor, and stimulate local-level retention of benefits and cash incomes. Other means o f poverty
alleviation include promoting entrepreneurial drive and small-scale enterprise development;
deregulating business environment to unleash absorptive potential o f informal sector; and
improving flexibility o f the formal labor marketto increase employment options and opportunities.
It is inthis regardthat MET and other stakeholders have successfully introducedthe cross-cutting
CBNRM approach in the various sector strategies and government priorities presented in
Namibia's National Development Plan 11. The benefits o f the CBNRM Program to the communal
conservancies include an increase o f income-generating benefits from rebounding wildlife,
community-based tourism and other spin-off enterprises and newly established local democratic
governance mechanisms and empowerment.
However, the challenge for the Ministry o f Environment and Tourism and other stakeholders
remains the implementation o f the NDP I1targets including the development of a reliable impact
monitoring over medium to long-term. Inits official CBNRM policy letter (see annex 12), MET
outlines the key overlaps and synergies between other sector ministries (mainly between Ministry
of Lands, Resettlement and Rehabilitation, Ministry o f Agriculture, Water and Rural Development
and Ministry o f Local Regional Government and Housing). Furthermore, MET has developed
strategic elements to focus more on the issue o f sustainable use of natural resources in its
CBNRM Program. I t aims to improve the framework for investment incentives and partnerships
with the private sector especially at the medium end o f the community-based tourism market,
which i s expected to generate more local employment and income. Another challenge inNamibia
remains implementation o f land reform processes that aim to improve land tenure security in an
equitable fashion. One aspect o f that process involves the recently gazetted Communal Lands
Reform Act, which inprinciple supports decentralized decision-making around land allocation and
management. While it complements similar decentralization principles inherent in the CBNRM
policy, the implementation o f the Communal Land Reform Act may still be a lengthy process to



                                               -10-

ensure adequate engagement o f communal land boards, traditional authorities, and other
stakeholders.

3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
In synergy with national on-going efforts, the project will contribute to NDP 11's mission
statement for environment and sustainable resource management:          "To contribute to national
sustainable development through the promotion o f the sustainable use o f renewable natural
resources, the promotion o f sustainable rural and urban livelihood, and the maintenance o f
essential ecological processes, biodiversity and ecosystems."

Based on lessons learned from the first pilot phase o f the National CBNRM Program, the project
will consolidate the good practices and address the challenges identified (see annex 17). There is a
unique opportunity to apply the National CBNRM Program approach (including establishment
local level institutions, network of service providers) on all natural resources, such as forests,
grazing land, indigenous plants, water and fisheries as a means to increase biodiversity, ecosystem
processes and overall productivity. The project's strategic financial, institutional and technical
choices use the catalytic support o f GEF to address the main CBNRM sector issues below:

Sector issue: Conservation and sustainable use of Namibia's biodiversity and resource base
and strategic choice:
The project will support priority conservancies inbiodiversity rich target areas (based on criteria
described in annex 2) likely to deliver results on the ground and global environmental benefits
through the following elements integratedin its components 1, 2 and 3.
1. assisting MET to review and adapt its CBNRM strategic approach to the future needs of
    conservancies and the resource base.   ,
2. addressing threats and root causes of environmental degradation by piloting an integrated
    planning, implementation and monitoring approach;
3. developing detailed baseline assessment and local monitoring and evaluation functions for
    sound impact monitoring;
4. building on decentralization process to empower communities and strengthen local
    development capacities;
5. coordinating with other (donor-funded) CBNRM support initiatives and NGO expertise to
    ensure geographic and sectoral complementarity facilitating access to funding sources for
    development concerns that GEF or FFEM cannotjhance); and
6.   assisting in the creation of regional conservancy associations as well as of a national
    conservancy association

More importantly, the project will support the shift from wildlife-focused management (CBWM)
to an integratedecosystem approach (CBIEM) through the following elements:
(1) Stren~henedlegal and policy framework for CBNRM under component 3 (moving away
from wildlife management as the center o f the previous CBNRM) within MET (e.g. MET'S
revision of conservation policies into one bundled act including parks and wildlife management);
but also within jurisdiction of other Ministries (e.g. Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Rural
Development (e.g. for linkages to other resource uses such as rangeland management, water
management), Ministry o f Lands Rehabilitation and Resettlement (e.g. for improved conservancy


                                                - 11 -

representation within new land boards) and Ministry o f Local Regional Governance and Housing
(e.g. for representation of conservancies inRegional Development Coordination Committees).
(2) Reform for CBNRM institutional framework under component 3 through: (i)the
establishment o f a multi-stakeholder and multi-sectoral CBNRM Consultative Forum under
MET's leadership. This Forum comprises members from the stakeholder community (including
other Government Ministries [inparticular MAWRD, MLRR, MLRGH], NGOs, Conservancies,
the academic community and the Donor Community inter alia.). This will ensure that the shift
from Community-based Wildlife Management to Integrated Ecosystem Management i s fully
understood and supported by all stakeholders; (ii) institutional restructuring to move away
                                                    MET's
from segmented and sub-sectoral approaches (potential merge o f current separate CBNRM
subdivisions under Directorate o f Forestry, Directorate o f Tourism, Directorate o f Parks and
Wildlife Management).
(3) Direct investments for ecosystem restoration and rehabilitation measures under component 2
including plants and wildlife. These activities will build on and replicate pilot experiences under
the highly successful Forum for integratedresource management (FIRM) approach (see annex 15,
2.1.2.2.) where formal linkages to other resource use schemes such as rangeland management,
desertification control, fisheries, forestry and water management have been established and used
for integrated conservancy planning and implementation.
(4) Targeted cauacitv buildinn for conservancies and field-based support organization for
integrated ecosystem planning (zoning, mapping), implementation and monitoring and evaluation
under component 2.
(5) Identification and implementation of viable ecosystem-basedincome generating activities
under component 1.

Sector issue: Capacity to scaling-up CBNRM and strategic choice:
The project aims to reducehemove barriers at policy, institutional and financial level to sustainable
integrated ecosystem management and the up-scaling o f CBNRM. It has opted for the following
approachthrough its component 3:

(1) strengthening GRN'spolicy and legalframework to enable integrated ecosystem management
in conservancies and other conservancies.
While previous donor support under the National CBNRM Program was mainly provided to
NGOs and partly to conservancies and is likely to continue, the governmental institutions involved
and in particular MET were not adequately targeted. Therefore, the project aims to fill the
institutional gap, and to strengthen directly the MET and other line ministries (i) streamline and
                                                                                   to
decentralize regulatory procedures; (ii)to support inter-ministerial cooperation on CBNRM
issues; (iii)to recognize role of conservancies in the implementation of decentralization policies
regional land use planning, sector planning and decentralized NRM and to facilitate their
involvement in Regional Development Coordinating Committees; (iv) to harmonize sectoral
policies o f importance to conservancies (in particular communal land management and
community-based tourism); (v) to identify synergies between CBD and CCD and in particular
support efforts to control desertification and reduce the vulnerability of local communities to the
potential disruptive effects and hardships associated with periodic droughts; and (vi) to facilitate
mobilization of a sustainable long-term funding mechanism for biodiversity conservation (e.g.


                                                 -12-

through the Environmental Investment Fund). A central feature o f ICEMA's approach i s the
commitment to the sustainability of CBNRM activities after ICEMA's lifetime. Therefore
ICEMA's strategy i s to support local and central level existing institutions in order to be capable
o f sourcing and managingfunds. The CFF will serve as a local financial mechanism responsible for
the mobilization o f financial resources for local level ecosystem-based CBNRM activities. The
EIF is expected to become a resource mobilizing institution in support of CBNRM through
securing long-term fundingbase for various conservation activities inNamibia. Generally, the EIF
i s expected to invest in and support projects and activities that support the national development
strategy of the GRN but for which the GRN i s unable to provide the required financial
investments.

(2) reinforcing capacity and institutional supportfor CBNRM at central and decentralized level:


The development and management o f ecosystems in conservancies has been mainly focused on
wildlife to date and it is only recently that conceptualization of a methodology for integrated
ecosystem management development has been addressed. The integratedecosystem management
approach requires appropriate cross-sectoral cooperation and coordination between the main
stakeholders involved (MET, other sector ministries, NGOs, private sector) to enable effective
planning, implementation and monitoring at the conservancy level, regional and national level.
However, the results o f an institutional assessment and stakeholder analysis carried out during
project preparation showed capacity and institutional gaps at the main service provider level
(MET and NACSO), unlikely capable to respond adequately to the diversified needs of the
increasing conservancy network and the up-scaling of CBNRM activities. The project therefore
aims:
 i.tobuildontheinstitutionalworkingrelationshipbetweenGRN,NGOs,conservanciesandthe
     private sector to increase the quality, transparency and the effectiveness o f results-oriented
     delivery services to conservancies through targeted training, technical assistance and a set of
     criteria for outsourcing o f MET'Snon-core functions; and
ii.to provide lessonsfor up-scaling andreplicationthroughthe establishment ofa coherent
     monitoring and evaluation system for the CBNRM Program inMET.

Sector issue: Livelihood options for rural communities and strategic choice:
The project supports sustainable use and diversified livelihood through:
1. providing money and technical assistance for increase of ecosystem-based income-generating,
     conservation and sustainable use activities in selected conservancies across its components 1,
     2 and 3;
2. setting up a Community Funding Facility for income-generating sub-projects emerging from
     CBIEM planning processes;
3. promoting equitable sharing o f costs and benefits o f conservancy investment decisions;
4. providingtraining for business development and financial planning;
5. supporting shift from C B W M to CBIEM intargeted conservancies by piloting formal linkages
     to other resource use schemes such as rangeland management,                 forestry and water
     management; and
6. usingbottom-up participatory planning mechanisms to reinforce CBNRM principles of good
     governance and local empowerment.


                                                - 13-

C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components(see Annex 2 for adetaileddescriptionandAnnex 3 for adetailedcost breakdown):
1.      Projectcomponents: (see Annex 1)
WB/GEF provides incremental financing for the project's 4 inter-relatedcomponents that together
serve to consolidate, add value to and build on the previous achievements o f the National
CBNRM Program. It will foster the shift from traditional natural resource management (mainly
wildlife) to an integrated ecosystem management approach in targeted conservancies thereby
enhancing globally significant biodiversity conservation and reducing !and degradation while at the
same time providing increased income-generating activities. ICEMA will support targeted
conservancies on communal lands complying with ICEMA's defined strategic criteria. The project
also provides institutional support to the Ministry o f Environment and Tourism (MET), which i s
the governmental lead agency responsible for implementing the National Community-Based
Natural Resource Management (CBNRM) Program.

Project components 1 "Ecosystem-based Income-Generating Activities" and 2 "Sustainable
Ecosystem Management" support site-specific on-the-ground activities. Project component 3
"Targeted Institutional Support" focus on priority issues o f the institutional, policy and financial
CBNRM framework. All three components are expected to provide replicable lessons for the
remaining conservancy network. Project component 4 "Project Management Support" aims to
strengthen the capacity o f the Ministry of Environment and Tourism to manage and supervise the
project activities.

Component 1: Ecosystem-basedIncome-Generating Activities
This component is concerned with the sustainable use ofnatural resources and ecosystem services
through provision o f funds to communities for barrier removal to ecosystem-based
income-generating activities that generate benefits to conservancies members. It specifically aims
to:
 i.provideresourcesfor direct financingof demand-drivenecosystem-basedincome-generating
    activities,
 ii.increase the viability of activities through tailored business planning, feasibility support,
    training andmentoring;
iii.promotemechanismsforequitablesharingofcostsandbenefits;
iv. develop and disseminate best practices for replication and up-scaling through monitoring and
    evaluation processes; and
 v. contribute to improved participation in development planning processes at local and regional
    level.

The two closely inter-relatedsub-components are the :
a) Community-Funding Facility (CFF):
The sub-component focuses on the delivery of sub-projects (micro-projects) to eligible (see
 selection criteria in annex 19) registered conservancies. CFF funded activities will target a
 diversity o f aspects related to wildlife, tourism, forestry, and multi-sector (e.g. non-timber forest
products (NTFP) with emphasis on community ownership.



                                                  - 14-

b) Capacity- Buildingand Technical Assistance:
This sub-component focuses on supportingthe CFF through the following three activities:
 i.disseminatinginformationtoeligiblecommunities, withaviewtoinforming themof theCFF
    and providingguidance on accessing the CFF.
ii.technicalsupportattheconservancylevelfor strategicbusinessplanningaspartofthe
    conservancy ecosystemmanagement planningprocess, including a mechanism for benefit
    sharing at the conservancy level.
iii.facilitation supportforsub-projectdevelopmentwhichwillinclude:
   o     technical support for subproject development. Feasibility studies will identify andassess
         costs and benefitsfor new income-generating opportunities as well as to provide guidance
        based on marketing and management study results.
   o     implementation support for subprojects consist of subproject in-built technical assistance
         (TA) for training andmentoring to further strengthen capacity of local stakeholders, and
        to ensure desired quality and standards o f subprojects;
   o    follow-up support for subproject management including management support and advice,
         krlowledge management, and replication activities at local and national level.

Component 2: Sustainable Ecosystem Management
This component is concerned with restoring, securing and enhancing the biodiversity and
ecosystem processes that support sustainable benefits to local communities on communal lands.
The component will adapt its support according to national conservationpriorities and the needs
and current status o f targeted conservancies. Some conservancies will only require basic support
for the community based integrated ecosystem management planning and prioritization o f
activities, for developing methodological approaches for pilot activities, for designing an
appropriate knowledge management plan. Whereas other conservancies, where there i s a need
and which have more capacity to plan and implement their plan, will benefit from an enhanced and
more detailed approach.
The component provides funds and technical support to:
 i.establish approachesfor CBIEMplanning includinginventory andbaseline assessment as
    needed intargeted sites;
ii.restore, maintain and enhance ecosystem services as part of the implementation of the
    management plans as needed intargeted sites;
iii.develop capacity for local monitoring and evaluation functions related to ecosystem
    management (including replication) as needed intargeted sites.

The three inter-relatedsub-components are the :
(a) CBIEM Planning:
The sub-component will support the development o f 15 integrated conservancy management
plans intargeted registered conservancies that will guide resource basedmanagement activities.
(b) CBIEM Implementation:
This sub-component focus on the implementation o f site-specific key prioritized activities for
ecosystem restoration, wildlife translocation and other ecosystem management activities as
outlined inthe CBIEM plan.
IC) MonitoringandEvaluation:
    CBIEM



                                               - 15-

This sub-component focus on:
a. designing an adaptive and comprehensive CBIEM m&e methodology (socioeconomic and
     environmental) for local level users and uses;
b. implementing m&e through support for data collection (tracker; aerial surveys, GIs) at local
     andcentral level;
 c. providing training for local and central level stakeholders on m&e development and use.

Component 3: TargetedInstitutionalSupport
The component aims to improve the MET's strategic planning, implementation, monitoring and
replication capacity to promote, develop and implement the National CBNRM Program and
policies in Namibia over the longer term. It will also provide institutional and operational support
to selected conservancies.
The component is focusing on:
 i.strengtheningMET'sorganizationalframeworkforCBNRM;
ii.providingtargetedtrainingfor MET'sstaffto support its leadingrole relatedtoNational
     CBNRM Program inplace;
iii.reinforcingtheMETtoengageother sectoralministriesintheactivesupport for CBNRM
     policies and the CBNRM Program implementation;
iv. facilitating the establishment o f a sustainable financing framework for CBNRM;
 v. providingdirect institutional and operational support to targeted conservancies; and,
vi. developing and implementing a CBNRM knowledge management and communication strategy
     and action plan.

 The three sub-components are:
 [a) Policy and OrganizationalReview and Development:
 This sub-component includes the following closely interlinked issues:
  i.CBNRMpolicy dialogue (reviewing andenablingthepriority legalframework; workshop
     support for improved inter-sectoral CBNRM policy coordination with other ministries);
 ii.CBNRMpolicyresearch(identifyingandfundingoftargetedCBNRMresearchissuestobe
     undertaken or guidedby a technical and scientific roster of experts);
iii.CBNRM organizational review (assisting MET to review its current National CBNRM
     strategy and institutional set-up with the aim to identify and implement a targeted training plan
     for MET's centralized and decentralized staff; further providing support to MET to formalize
     a CBNRM consultative forum to discuss policies issues, progress within the National
     CBNRM Programand associated activities and to share experiences);
iv. CBNRM financial sustainability (supporting the development of a sustainable financial
     framework including options to integrate the protocols used under the CFF under the
     Environment Investment Fund (EIF), assessments o f the further use o f the Game Product
     Trust Fund (GPTF), mainstreaming further funding for CBNRM into Government's budget,
     and development o f a CBNRM cost-reduction strategy).

 (b) Direct conservancy operational support broviding financial support for equipment and
 running costs as well as limited training and workshop budget for conservancy management
 needs).




                                                  - 16-

IC) Management:
    Knowledge
The sub-component provides institutional support for
 i.TrainingandtechnicalassistancetoMETstafftoimproveCBNRMscientificmonitoringand
    evaluation activities and to further develop and adapt its central m&e systemto the expanding
    needs o f the CBNRM Program.
ii.DesigningandimplementingofaCBNRMknowledgemanagementprogram(includinga
    multimedia communication strategy and action plan outlining the communication tools,
    recipients and timeframe of actions; a CBNRM replicationplan) for conservancies, central
    government and other stakeholders basedon all National CBNRM Program and ICEMA
    project activities and achievements and lessons learned. A full economic study o f the CBNRM
    Programwill also be conducted.

Component 4: Project Management Support
The component aims to provide MET with the additional increased operational ability to manage
and supervise ICEMA activities. French ICEMA co-funding to this component will strengthen the
Project Office located inMET (attached to the PS office, see annex 13 for more details) expertise,
implementation and delivery capacity by adding 4 technical experts with expertise (two national
and two international) to the PO staff.
The two sub-components are:
 i.ProiectOfficeandManagement: The sub-component providesthenecessaryinfrastructure
    and training for the Project Office staff.
ii.Review andReporting.The sub-component enablesthe timely delivery ofprojectreports
    according to the project implementation plan.




3. Targeted Institutional Support
      -                    ..
4. Project Management Support                      2.70 I      8.3I    0.00 I   0.0I     1.69 I   23.8

                        Total Financing RequiredI 32.43 I    100.0I    0.00 I   0.0I     7.10 I 100.0  I

2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
There exist already a range o f enacted policy decisions in favor o f CBNRM. To improve the
consistency between sector policies and further adapt to the decentralization process, the project
will assist the government, in particular the Ministry of Environment and Tourism, reviewing
existing policies as well as examining new legal and policy documents for biodiversity, forests,
wildlife and environmental protection. The project does not require or lead to institutional, policy
or legal reforms but will improve institutional processes and regulations governing resource
management, devolution of resource use rights and sustainable financing. Inparticular, the project
will support:
 i.MET'Sinstitutionalrestructuringtorespondto itsstrategicplanningforthefutureCBNRM
    Program;


                                                 -17-

 ii.MET'srevisionofconservationpolicies(scheduledfor2005)leadingtobundledlegislation
    (one Act scheduled for 2004) including approval of Parks and Wildlife Management Act;
iii.MET's to develop a Tourism Concession Policy to strengthen conservancy rights over
    tourism; and
iv. MLRR's communal land act review and clarification of responsibilities of management entities
    (inparticular relatedto conservancies andtraditional authorities).

Additional areas for policy and institutional reform support have been identified in MET's policy
letter (see annex 12).

3. Benefits and target population:

Benefits
The project will assist Namibia and its national CBNRM Program to enhance conservation of its
richbiodiversity heritage through (i) promoting linkages and development between communal and
freehold conservancies that will lead to a national conservation movement which could ultimately
lead to a doubling o f the 14% o f land (approximately 115,000 sq km) inNamibia that i s currently
under conservation management through the Namibia protected area system; (ii)promoting
integrated ecosystem management approaches and sustainable use o f natural resources; (iii)
addressing lack of local level capacity and financial             start-up resources to enhance
ecosystem-based income-generating activities (e.g. commercialization o f indigenous plants; crafts
production and sales, trophy hunting, community-based tourism) thereby providing for local
income and employment and empowerment to influence and direct their own development
mandate. By 2003, a total o f 29 communal area conservancies have been registered. These
twenty-nineconservancies incorporate more than 74 052 km' of prime wildlife habitat and involve
more than 38,000 registered communal area residents (adults only) in conservation efforts (total
estimated conservancy population estimates up to 150,000). A further 39 emerging communal
conservancies are under development.

The expected benefits from the National CBNRM program and the project support have been
 summarized in the following table and a full economic strategy o f the CBNRM Program will be
conducted during the course of the project. A difference needs to be made between financial and
nonfinancial benefits o f CBNRM. The latter being less tangible, harder to measure, but from the
perspective o f social development and ecosystem "inability,      can far exceed financial benefits in
significance. These intangible benefits include (i)  capacity-building and empowerment; (ii)    more
secure livelihood; (iii)cultural and aesthetic values of wildlife and local traditions; (iv) enhanced
natural resource base and (v) political, social, economic and environmental benefits at the national
level. These benefits are expected to impact positively the San populations (if living in targeted
conservancy area) and are further detailed in the IPDP action plan. Despite being difficult to
assess, these less tangible benefits are taken into account in (i)the project's decision-making
process (site selection) and (ii)
                                the projects m&e system (impact indicators).




                                                 -18-

lenefits (tangible Local                                                          iationaYGloba1
ndintangible)
ocial and          *Necessary policy framework and incentives for                 'National policy and legislationin
istitutional       conservancies to sustainably manage all natural                :onformi@ with international treaties
                  resources in an integratedmanner                                romotingbiodiversity conservation and
                   *Enhanced participation, representativeness,                   illeviation o f land degradation
                   accountability, and financial sustainability o f               'Enhanced national capacity o f
                   conservancy decision-making institutions to manage             ;ovemment institutions and NGOs to
                   and utilize natural resources sustainably                      wovide capacity-building services to
                   *Empowerment o f all community members, including San          jrotect globally important biodiversity and
                  people if living intargeted conservancy area                    :cosystems and to reduce land degradation
                   *Equitable benefit sharing mechanisms establishedin            'Dissemination o f best practices on
                   conservancies                                                  ntegrated ecosystem management for
                   *Increased conservation and utilization o f                    ,eplicationand policy recommendations at
                  traditional indigenous knowledge in decision                    iational, regional and global levels
                  making                                                          'Improved cross-sectoral cooperation
                   *General human resource capacity in local                      InCBNRM.
                   institutions strengthened to permit pursuit o f
                   other development goals such as improved rural
                   health and education
                   *Value o f living and working in one's home area (cultural
                   strengthening)
                   *Possibility to work and continue to keep livestock both as
                   security for one's livelihood and for social reasons
                   *Ability to maintain and strengthensocial networks and
                   "safety nets''
                   *Better protection from wildlife
yinancial          Direct:.                                                       #Supportto development o f national long
                   *Increased financial benefits for conservancies through        term fundingmechanism(s) for the
                   enterprise development, joint ventures, huntingquotas, sale    :onservation o f globally important
                   o f wildlife products and revenue sharing schemes              biodiversity
                   *Potential for income inform o f payment for ecological        *Improved national coordination o f donor
                   services (biodiversity conservation, carbon sequestration)     assistance to biodiversity conservation and
                   *Selected community development projects implemented           ecosystem management efforts inNamibia
                   through accrued revenue                                        inthe context ofCBNRM.
                   Indirect:
                   *Employment
                   **Capacity  building
                     Improvedproductivity
                   *Increased availability o f subsistence products including bush
                   meat
                   *Diversified livelihood strategies and enhanced security by
                   household incomes
                   *Catalytic increased development inputs such as
                   infrastructures, communication, training
Snvironmental      *Reduced land degradation caused by soil erosion and           *Increased carbon sequestration through
                   desertification                                                improved ecosystem management and
                   *Reduced illicit and unsustainableuse o f natural resources    enhanced biomass
                   *Improvement o f water quality and watershed management        *Reduced land degradation causedby soil
                   *Improved status o f grazing, woodland resources, biodiversity erosion and desertification
                   habitats                                                       *Improved planning and management
                   *Comprehensive M&E system for impact and performance           mechanisms for globally important



                                                        - 19-

                   monitoring on social, institutional aspects and state of   ecosystems
                   environment improving local decision-making process        *Reduced illicit and unsustainable
                                                                              harvesting o f globally valuable tree
                                                                              species, wild plants, wildlife and other
                                                                              animals
                                                                              *Improved protection o f endangered and
                                                                              endemic sDecies and their habitats

Rangeof target groups and beneficiaries:

Although the National CBNRM Program and the ICEMA Project will ultimately reach a broad
range of involved stakeholders at local, regional and national level, the main target group and
beneficiary o f ICEMA will be communal conservancies and their community members, including

organizations . In addition, ICEMA will support the line ministry responsible for the National
San populations (depending on project target sites) and non-governmental CBNRM support

CBNRM Program, the Ministry of Environment and Tourism (MET), to improve and strengthen
the current policy, legal and institutional framework.

Other stakeholders involved are (i)          Private enterprises engaged in joint ventures and tourism
investments with conservancies; (ii)23 freehold conservancies on approximately 3,850,000
hectares (represented by the Conservancy Association o f Namibia CANAM) and (iii)                      farmers
(represented by 2 Farmer's Unions); (iv) NGO members supporting and facilitating CBNRM and
local development activities throughout Namibia and (v) other line ministries responsible for
CBNRM such as Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Rural Development (MAWRD), Ministry of
Lands, Resettlement and Rehabilitation (MLRR), Ministry of Local Government and Housing
(MLRGH), andNational Planning Commission(NPC).

4. Institutionaland implementation arrangements:
FN: See annex 13 for more details.

(i)      Proiectmanapement: The ProjectOffice(PO)
A Project Office will act as the project implementation support team. It will be closely associated
to MET'Shigh level management (PS Office) and report directly to the PS. The Project Office's
composition consists of 4 full-time and 1 part-time staff : (i)a Project Office Coordinator,
responsible for overall coordination and implementation; (ii)a Procurement Officer; (iii)an
Accounting Officer, (iv) an Administrative Assistant; and (v) a part-time Monitoring and
Evaluation Specialist.
I t s main functions and tasks are related to :
o     Fiduciary obligations (including elaborating annual work plans and ensure their execution once
      appr0ved;management o f results-based                    disbursement from the Special Account; and
      ensuring compliance with agreed norms andprocedures specified ingrant agreement);
o     Day to day program coordination, communication and liaison with stakeholder groups and
      processing (including interaction with World Bank regarding project management and
      supervision missions);
o     Mobilizationof backstopping;
o     Secretariat of the METACEMA Steering Committee;



                                                       - 20 -

o    Aggregate project monitoring, auditing and reporting (including contracting external
     auditors); and
o    Finalizing and proposingmodifications to project manuals and guidelines, as needed.

(ii) ProiectSteerinpCommittee:
The MET/ICEMA's Steering Committee's purpose is to ensure compliance with proposedproject
objectives. To that end, the committee will provide technical project guidance and intra-ministerial
coordination. It will review action strategies, procedures and guidelines; analyze the project's
annual work plan and analyze and issue opinions on technical and financial reports. The
METACEMA Steering Committee will make recommendations relating to issues that may require
outside advisory support, drawing on support as neededfrom the TSAR. I t will also obtain advice
by liaising with other stakeholders through the national CBNRM Consultative Forum (FN. name
o f this Forum may be changed). The Committee will be chaired by the PS MET and comprise all 6
Directors (DSS, DPWM, DOT, DOF, DEA, DAS). MET/ICEMA Steering Committee meetings
may fall together with MET'Sregular Management Committee meetings.

(iii)    Proiect technical backstopping and information sharing : The Technical and
Scientific Advisory Roster (TSAR) and the CBNRM Consultative Forum (CCF).
MET in consultation with other CBNRM stakeholders will develop a technical and scientific
advisory roster (TSAR) for CBNRM related issues and themes. National (and international)
experts on this roster will be used upon specific requests to guide project implementation and
development o f annual work programs from a technical and scientific perspective. Areas o f
designated expertise will include those associated with project safeguards (environment,
resettlement, indigenous people) and will, for example, thus include at least one expert on social
issues,

A CBNRM consultative forum, consisting of representatives from conservancies, NGOs, other
GRN ministries, other donors and representative of related programs and projects will be
established and chaired by the MET. This CBNRM consultative forum aims to provide for
synergies, exchange o f experiences and use lessons learned for policy and operational
decision-making processes. Its recommendations will be disseminated through a CBNRM
communication strategy, supported by the project. While at the project launch, the CBNRM
consultative group might not be formalized, MET will ensure that an informal consultative
process including all major CBNRM stakeholders will be in place. The CBNRM consultative
forum is expected to be fully functional by mid-term. Its advice will be used to (i)inform a broad
range of govemmental, non-governmental, research, sub-regional and donor stakeholders, (ii)
improve planned decisions at national and local level, (iii) experiences and lessons o f the
                                                              assess
National CBNRM Program, (iv) indicate urgent strategic issues and (v) improve coordination and
collaboration.

(iv)     Proiect implementation and execution: MET, NGOs, Conservancies and private
sector
A range of stakeholders will be involved inproject implementation and execution. Whereas MET
i s responsible for the overall project implementation, it will outsource execution o f activities for
areas outside its core expertise and function or/and to increase its absorptive capacity. Training,



                                               - 2 1-

decentralized M&E, and execution of sub-projects will all be facilitated by tendering such
activities to the range o f stakeholders through standard procurement arrangements.

MET: MET's current activities relatedto the National CBNRM Program include guidance andor
implementation support related to: resource inventories; natural resource utilization and
management options; resource and land use mapping; resource management planning and
monitoring, data analysis, reporting; research, economic analysis, case studies; establishment,
training and capacity building of CBNRM institutions; community by-laws related to NRM;
translocation of wildlife species; afforestatiodreforestation; problem animal management; fire
management; establishment of NR based income-generating projects (e.g. wildlife, tourism,
woodlots, nurseries,      forest products,    bee-keeping, wood carving).     The administrative
responsibility for CBNRM's technical implementation i s currently with MET's Department of
Natural Resources Management (DRM). DRM includes the Directorate of Parks and Wildlife
Management (DPWM) under which a CBNRM Sub-Division (CSD) i s placed, Directorate of
Forestry (DoF) and the Directorate of Scientijk Services (DSS). In addition, the Directorate of
Tourism (DOT)i s involved in community-based tourism. The sharing o f CBNRM responsibilities
and tasks between these directorates of the Ministry o f Environment and Tourism and their
demonstrated joint input in the project development process underlines the positive enabling
environment for the paradigm shift from community-based wildlife management to truly
integratedecosystem management.

NGOs: NGOs support the development and implementation of conservancies as well as increase
quality and cost-effectiveness of services provided by CBNRM support organizations. They
further advocate for policy and legislative change, and monitors the effectiveness and impacts of
conservancy development .

Conservancies: Conservancies have started discussions with MET to establish a forum where
representatives o f all registered conservancies can communicate and negotiate directly with MET.
At its last meetinginOctober 2003, most conservancies agreed to formalize this arrangement and
to form an association (the potentially called NamibianAssociation of Conservancies "NACA").
The constitution for such an association is currently under development. This evolution will
greatly facilitate direct consultation concerning the national CBNRM program and various
initiatives and projects under it. It further demonstrates strong political will to continuously
support and empower conservancies and promote full participation o f all stakeholders in the
strategic orientations and implementation o f the CBNRM. Furthermore, conservancies and their
members (and their community members including San population if living inproject area) are the
main beneficiary as well as executing agency for the on-the-ground activities under component 1
and 2.

Private sector: The private sector plays several roles in the CBNRM Program, the most relevant
are: (i)service providers for execution o f specific activities under component 1 and 2; (ii)
conservation partners to offer training and information events for communal conservancies and to
support joint efforts to solve conservation issues such as problem animals and participate ingame
translocation schemes; as well as (iii)partners and co-investors in community-based tourism
schemes.


                                                 - 22 -

  {v) Proiect Monitoring and Evaluation(see annex 18):
  Monitoring, as a process o f systematic collection, analysis and use o f data to improve project
  performance and project outputs will serve as an important management tool to guide ICEMA
  management and implementation at central and local level. Through the Project Office, ICEMA
  will establish and maintain an information data base linked to the Project Management
  Information System (MIS) and the logical framework. This will allow to assess and report on the
  quality and quantity o f work at each level. Inaddition, monitoring will be characterized by a rapid
  feedback from the project management to operational levels to address issues arising from the
   analysis o f monitoring information. The project's monitoring system will be made accessible to all
   implementation stakeholders (MET, conservancies and their members (including San), private
   sector, NGOsand World Bank) and ultimately put on MET's CBNRM webpage.
  The primary purpose of process, performance and impact monitoring of ICEMA implementation
   is:
   (i) monitorprogresstowardsattainmentoftargets andtoadapttargetstorealities; (ii)
      To                                                                                               To
   provide an improved foundation for planning; (iii)     To make sure resources are used effectively
   and to identify unacceptably highcost interventions and operations; (iv) To identify problems and
   find solutions at an early stage; (v) To provide record of events; (vi) To look at 'process' of
   development such as staffing, capacity building and collaboration; (vi) To provide an information
   base for future evaluations; (vii) To maintain high standards; and (viii) To help staff feel their
   work has a definite purpose.

   The project's performance M&E system will include monitoring o f root causes at conservancy
   level and enabling communities to provide locally gathered and locally demand-driven data and
   information to input into sustainable local, regional and national planning and decision-making
   processes. The M&E system will provide the project stakeholders, mainly the Ministry of
   Environment and Tourism, the World Bank and the GEF through inputs inthe PSR and PIR, and
   external partners with data and information to measure progress and performance, and to
   determine whether expected impacts have been achieved, and to provide timely feedback to
.  ensure that critical issues are identified inthe earliest stage and that appropriate actions are taken.


   Furthermore, the project puts a strong emphasis on supporting MET with the development and
   implementation of a sustainable CBNRM M&E system at national and local level with information
   flow and feed-back loops between these levels. Duringproject preparation, initial assessments o f
   the current practices for National CBNRM Program have shown that there is need to improve
   existing information systems and          that capacity-building among MET's Directorates and
   conservancies as regards planning and monitoring and evaluation i s strongly needed.


   (vi) Financial Management

   Preparation of the proposed project has been spear-headed by a team led by the Permanent
   Secretary in the Ministry o f Environment and Tourism (MET). Actual responsibility for project
   implementation will be vested ina Project Office (PO) within the MET.



                                                    - 23 -

A Project Coordinator will head the PO, which will also have senior officers in charge of
accounting and of procurement respectively. The project's accounting officer will be responsible
for all accounting record keeping, disbursements, reporting, and general financial management.
He will report to the Coordinator, who in turn reports to the PS in the MET. The PS therefore
retains overall responsibility for the performance of the project and for project funds. The PS i s
thus the "Accounting Officer" for the project.

Project financial management will be completely outside of the government accounting system.
This means that there will basically be less bureaucratic processesbut greater focus on a narrower
range of expenditures. Both control and reporting ability should be enhanced by the Project
Office's intimate knowledge of the various activities that will be going on.

For accounting and reporting purposes, a computer based financial management system will be
established, and staff trained in its proper use.

Inaddition, the production of an Financial and Administrative Manual acceptable to the Bank will
be a condition for effectiveness, meaning that processes and controls will be adequately described
for users.

Project Accounting Staff will be recruited in accordance with Terms o f Reference (TOR)
acceptable to the Bank.

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection:
Two main options were considered as a project alternative but were rejected:

1)      "Continue to support an NGO led first generation conservancy approach (meaning
traditional Community-Based Wildlife Management) and geographic expansion of the
conservancy network". However, although this approach has led to a dramatic increase in
registered and emerging conservancies and has contributed to strengthen the conservancy
development process and local level institution building, it has not enough focused on the financial
viability of conservancies and sustainability remains therefore a major concern. Furthermore, such
an approach may not provide a mechanism for balanced sustainable ecosystem management nor
foster multiple global benefits or use conservancies as a catalyst for local development and
empowerment. Recent evaluations by USAID of its wildlife-focused LIFEprogram confirmed this
finding and prompted USAID to adopt a shift to an ecosystem based approach in its newly
conceptualized LIFE-PLUSfollow-on support.

The proposedproject design focus on supportingthe paradigm shift towards integratedecosystem
management through targeted capacity-building for integrated conservancy planning and the
identification   and     implementation      of   direct  investments,    viable   ecosystem-based
income-generating opportunities, and to a lesser extent on the process o f establishing and
registeringconservancies.

2)       'Support the national park network", despite the fact that most o f Namibia's biodiversity
i s found outside protected areas and on communal lands. Hence, population pressures and other


                                                 - 24 -

root causes for biodiversity loss and land degradation would not be addressed appropriately.
Recent studies by DFID (December 2002) also confirm that protected area as well as broader
IEMapproaches are bothinstruments to deliver ecosystem benefit and development objectives of
poverty alleviation that need to be assessed and adapted to each specific context. DFID Study on
Wildlife and Poverty (December 2002) was inconclusive whether wildlife interventions are
preferred over other interventions in poverty reduction, this means that the project uses one
potential legitimate intervention ina diversifiedportfolio. The study findings confirmed (i)   that the
presence o f wildlife i s important for poverty reduction, this means that an increase inconservancy
numbers contribute positively to this aim; (ii)that access to wildlife is important for poverty
reduction, this implies that conservancies can play an important role in benefit sharing; (iii)     that
the approach based on IEM(where ecosystemboundaries permit) may be more promising.

Another minor project alternative was assessedand i s partially includedinthe project design:
3)     "Support for only setting-upa conservation trust fund". Trust fund models have been used
with some success in other countries, and a prefeasibility assessment was conducted for this
project to determine its applicability for delivering funding support to the primary beneficiaries
(conservancies). Using a conservation trust fund at this time i s still too early,and not adapted
becausemost of the conservancies still need a lot of investments, capacity building,benefit sharing
mechanisms to be operationalized, and of course broad basedparticipatory legislative, institutional
and regulatory evolution are still needed prior to the adoption o f such a fimding model. As part
of the adoption of a sustainable financing strategy and action by the time o f mid year review,
continued support will be provided , with a view to potentially establishing more permanent
funding mechanisms relating to the EIF, the Game Product Trust Fund, and other potential formal
funds ina subsequent phase.

4)     "Implementation arrangements"
The previously proposed institutional arrangements for ICEMA implementation directly through
NACSO members (NGOs) without panel involvement o f the MET was not endorsed by the MET.
This situation led to a participatory project design review process (with involvement o f the
NGOs) and resulted in the proposed project design and implementation arrangements. It i s
anticipated that the CBNRM Consultative Forum will become an important facilitator in the
inter-sectoral and multi-stakeholder setting of the National CBNRM Program, supported by
ICEMA.

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).

             Sector Issue                            Project

                                                                         Implementation  Development
 Bank-financed                                                            Progress(IP)   Objective (DO)

 HumanResourceDevelopment                ESW HumanCapital
                                         DevelopmentandKnowledge
                                         Management (preparation)
                                         ESW Sources of growth
                                         (planned)


                                                  - 25 -

Natural ResourceManagement                Water ResourcesManagement                S             S
                                          Project(completed)
Information Technology                    Country DevelopmentGateway
Decentralization                          Urban Sub-nationalProject
                                          (preparation)
HIVIAids                                  Development Impactof Aids
Sustainable LandManagement                Promotingenvironmental
                                          sustainabilitythroughimproved
                                          landuse planning(PESILUP)
                                          (preparation)
CoastalZone Management                    NamibCoastalBiodiversity
                                          Conservationand Management
                                          Project (NACOMA)
                                          (preparation)
Public expenditures                       Public ExpenditureTracking
                                          System (on-going)
                                          Economic monitoring
                                          (on-going)
                                          CEMCountryEconomic
                                          Memorandum(preparation)
3ther developmentagencies
GEFKJNEP                                  Desert MarginProgram
                                          (on-going)
USAID                                     LIFEplus (planned for 2004      -
                                          2009110)
EC                                         Support to implementationof
                                           Strategic Frameworkfor Rural
                                          Development(2004      - 2012)
EC                                        Tourism DevelopmentProgram
                                          (ending most likely in
                                          200412005)
Government of Finland                     Namibia-Finland Forestry
                                           ProgrammeI1(ending most
                                           likely in200412005)
GTZ                                       Namibia Programmeto Comba
                                           Desertification(NAPCOD)
                                           (on-goingbut underreview for
                                           2004  - likely successor will
                                           combine biodiversity and
                                           desertificationefforts)
GTZ                                        Sustainable Animal andRange
                                           DevelopmentProgramme
                                           (SARDEP) (on-going)
KfW/DED                                    Support to National Forestry
                                           Programme (2003     - 2009
                                           on-going)
PlDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory),I (Highly Unsati!



                                                     - 26 -

3. Lessonslearned and reflected inthe project design:
The project design builds on Namibia's experiences and lessons with the development and
evolution of the first years of CBNRM in conservancies on communal lands (see Annex 17 for
details). A broad-based national CBNRM vision process in2001 with participating governmental
and non-governmental organizations as well as international partners engaged in NRM and rural
development further strengthened ICEMA's project design across its four components.

Inaddition, CBNRM lessons learnedbasedonanalyses oflessons from the following sub-regional
evaluations: (i) USAID's Regional Center for Southern Africa (RCSA) based inBotswana, which
has provided support for the implementation o f CBNRM programmes in four southern African
countries since 1989 under the "Regional Natural Resource Management Project (RNRMP), (ii)
evaluation o f 4 phases o f the Zambian CBNRM Program (LIRDP) and (iii)       DFID's Wildlife and
Poverty Study, December 2002 were reviewed and adapted to the Namibianproject context.

The key lessons and strategic recommendations to enable the national CNBRM program to move
to the next level in terms o f consolidating program leadership and ownership, institutionalization
o f cost-effective and efficient CBNRM support services, strengthened partnerships, and increased
program and conservancy sustainability are (USAID LIFEmid-term review):
ICEMA's component 1Benefit Enhancement:
0   Participatory Democracy Develop a program-wide emphasis on strengthening conservancies
                                -
    as participatory democracies based on control by the constituency acting through sound,
    constituted, accountable, transparent, democratic and equitable village-level institutions.
0   Financial Sustainability - Set in place plans for each conservancy to achieve financial
    sustainability as soon as possible.
0   Economical Sustainability - Get economic benefits flowing to conservancies.

ICEMA's component 2 Sustainable Ecosystem Management:
0   Re-prioritisation of the planning process-Simplify      the conservancy ecosystem planning
    process, with an emphasis on improving livelihoods by achieving financial, institutional and
    natural resource sustainability.

ICEMA's component 3 Targeted Institutional Support:
0   Reorient and expand support for the national program to address critical emerging issues and
    to increase the program's relevance to the government's sustainable developmentpriorities.
0   More robust performance and compliance monitoring-Implement                comprehensive, but
    simple, performance and compliance monitoring and control systems and communication
     strategy for program achievements.
0   Land tenure: Strengthen existing rightsand secure additional rights for the conservancies.
0   Long-termfunding: Secure funding for the mediumterm and financial sustainability over the
    longer term.

Finally, the USAID LIFE mid-term review in 2001 highlighted the need to improve and facilitate
the access and use of CBNRM related information at central and local level (including m&e
information) for all stakeholders involved Therefore, the ICEMA project design has supported
the development of the basisfor a communication strategy during preparation. Thefour project



                                                - 27 -

components include various elements for its implementation (dissemination and knowledge
sharing) (see Annex 17).

4. Indications of borrower and recipientcommitmentandownership:
Namibia is one o f very few countries in the world that enshrines the concept o f environmental
protection in its Constitution. Article 95(1) o f the Constitution states the following: "The State
shall actively promote and maintain the welfare of the people by adopting policies aimed at the
following: Maintenance of ecosystems, essential ecological processes and biological diversity of
Namibia and utilization of living natural resources on a sustainable basis for the benefit of all
Namibians, both present and future". The National CBNRM Program is coordinated by MET and
its mission is "to provide and coordinate information and technical support communities and
stakeholders for sustainable natural resource management and utilization to improve the
livelihoods o f all Namibians and to conserve biodiversity."
MET inaccordance with the constitution has adopted, implemented and will continue to develop
policies to enhance and protect Namibia's fragile environment while producing economic benefits
for Namibians inthe present and the future. The Ministry sees the National CBNRM Program as
an important mechanism for implementing goals and policies to fulfill the constitutional obligation
o f utilizing natural resources for the benefit o f all Namibians including those living in rural
communities and who were previously disadvantaged.
The legal basis o f the National CBNRM Program i s grounded withinexisting legislation as well as
official policy documents of the MET. There are also a number of draft legislation and policy
initiatives that are pending that will provide additional support to the national program. The
principal legislation governing the operation o f the National CBNRM Program and in particular
the conservancy program is the Nature Conservation Ordinance of 1975 through the Nature
Conservation Amendment Act (No 5) of 1996. Inaddition, legislation such as the Game Products
Trust Fund (GPTF) Act (No 7) o f 1997, the Namibia Tourism Board Act (No 21 of 2000), the
Forest Act (No 12) o f 2001 and the Namibia Environmental Investment Fund Act (No 13) of
2001 contains provisions in support o f or o f consequence to the CBNRM program. Policies o f
MET governing andor affecting the National CBNRM Program include Namibia's 12 Point Plan
for Integratedand Sustainable Environmental Management, the Wildlife Management, Utilization
and Tourism in Communal Areas, Conservation o f Biotic Diversity and Habitat Protection, Land
Use Planning, Tourism White Paper, Environmental Assessment and the draft Parks and Wildlife
Management Bill.
Financially, MET has requisitioned the necessary and increasing budget support for counterpart
funding to ICEMA over its current three-year planning cycle, and has also planned for a
supplementary funding of some N$50 million for direct investment in CBNRM initiatives outside
o f ICEMA. Finally, Namibia has ratified all major global environmental conventions, inparticular
the Biodiversity, Climate Change, and Desertification Convention and MET regards this project
as one major instrument to implement adequate aspects o f the Biodiversity Strategy and Action
Plan and the National Action Plan to Combat Desertification.


5. Value addedof Bank and Globalsupportinthis project:




                                                - 28 -

Over the past years, the Bank's continuous dialogue with Namibia focused on macro-economic
policies, human resource management, natural resource management, HIV/Aids and strategic
partnerships. A proposed Comprehensive Development Framework for Namibia was discussed in
2000. Efforts since then have built on this dialogue and provided the Bank with a sound
knowledge o f Namibian institutions, donor approaches and policy and regulatory framework.
Supporting technical assistance provided by the Bank on water sector reform, capacity building,
decentralization, education and sources of growth complement the project efforts and ensure
consistency at macro-level.

Moreover, the Bank/GEF i s playing a catalytic role to cover a wide range o f issues relating to
biological diversity and integrated ecosystem management at the communities level and to support
cooperative partnerships between various stakeholders at governmental, non-governmental,
community and donor levels. It aims to leverage additional resources throughout the first and
potentially second phase of the project which will be o f great importance to support the larger
CBNRM framework and its implementation. The ICEMA Project builds on the principles and the
objectives laid by the National CBNRh4 vision process, which was discussed with a broad range
of CBNRM stakeholders including the MET in 2000 and takes a long-term holistic approach
while targeting specific incremental activities within this larger framework. Assistance from
WB/GEF will help to consolidate progress made thus far in CBNRM in Namibia, and bring
longer-term stability in the program by enhancing MET'Sabilities in the fields identified. The
GEF, associated to the French GEF support fills a serious gap in the current funding framework
for CBNRM by providing the requested support to MET that no other donor i s currently
providing. So far, there exists a range o f donor funded initiatives in conservancy development,
community based tourism development and related fields, either directly through MET or NGOs.
The principal support has thus far come through the USAID LIFE project and the EU-funded
tourism development program. Further, the Bank's has increasing experience in, and ability to
facilitate long-term, programmatic approaches to biodiversity and integrated ecosystem
management, poverty alleviation and sustainable resource use. The Bank can build on its recent
portfolio of programmatic community-driven development (CDD) projects in Africa which
provides insight into adequate design and implementation of conservation and ecosystem
management objectives,       jointly  with development     efforts   based on a participatory
community-based approach. Several CDD projects, some o f them with a GEF OP 12 support, are
being developed and piloted in Burkina Faso, Nigeria, Niger, Guinea, Rwanda, and Kenya. The
proposed project design incorporates the most relevant lessons learned o f these operations and
the annual Project ImplementationReview of GEF.


E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic(see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit        NPV=US$million; ERR= % (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
   Incremental Cost
0 Other(specify)
The up-dated incrementalcost analysis can be found inannex 4.



                                              - 29 -

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
N.A.

Fiscal Impact:
N.A

3. Technical:
The technical issues described below were assessed during the preparation phase with PDF-B
financing. A full list o f studies and activities supported is available in annex 8.       Four main
technical issues have been identified throughout the first phase of the National CBNRh4 Program
andICEMA project preparationandhave beenincorporatedinthe project design:

a. Design, test, implement, monitor and replicate ecosystem management activities.
    Activities such as the development o f game translocation schemes, sustainable harvesting of
    indigenous plants, sustainable land planning and management activities and the development
    o f guidelines to assess activity cost-benefits are incorporated in component 2. Inaddition, the
    component 2 will support feasibility studies for innovative ecosystem management studies.
    Furthermore, component 3 will provide funds for necessary targeted research (e.g.
    cost-benefit analysis for targeted activities as well as for conservancies in general). It will also
    support the development o f a national CBNRM m&e system in MET as well as the
    development of a learning and communication strategy and action plan, thereby using
    experiences gained for verification and later replication. More importantly, as both on-the
    ground components will be implemented in the same project sites, linkages between
    sustainable use activities within component 1 and ecosystem management activities within
    component 2, based on the same conservancy ecosystem management plans, are expected to
    lead to a win-win situation with improved ecosystem management and increase in
    income-generating activities.
b. Use an adaptive management approach for conservancy planning, implementation and
    monitoring and evaluation. Adaptive management here means to accommodate the different
    baseline situation and needs of priority conservancies (e.g. with regard to existing local
    capacity, existing support from NGOs, potential for financial viability) and not to apply an
    one-size-fits all approach. The project responds in its components 1 and 2 through provision
    for basic or detailed business and conservancy ecosystem planning, implementation and
    monitoring. I t i s expected that the first 2 years will lead to an adaptive toolbox for
    governmental and non-governmental support to conservancies which can be proposed and
    applied as necessary.
c. Promote participation, equity and empowerment in conservancies.                       While these
    objectives are at the origin and center of the CBNRh4 Program, there remains still much to be
    done. The project design uses about 75 % o f its funding resources to target directly
    conservancies     (incremental support      for    ecosystem-based investments       through the
    Community-Funding Facility and ecosystem management as well as capacity building, training
    and direct operational support for the local level conservancy institutions). Further, the project
    component 1, 2 and 3 aims to strengthen conservancies as local level institutions to (i)
    develop, agree on and implement a benefit            sharing mechanism, (ii)develop individual


                                                  - 30 -

    cost-reduction strategies, (iii) a suitable service provider for quality service delivery
                                    choose
    and (iv) ensure good governance through training, capacity building, communication and
    knowledge management.
d. Elaborate a multi-stakeholder communication, replication and knowledge management
    strategy and action plan. Currently, only fragmented approaches try to collect and
    disseminate CBNRM relevant information and lessons learned and most o f them are
    donor-driven. However, the dynamic development o f the conservancy network and the
    broadened scope of the CBNRM Program requires a sound strategy to inform all
    governmental, scientific, local, and external stakeholders and decision-makers involved about
    ICEMA progress and experiences as well as about the National CBNRM Program in general.
    This will help to avoid overlaps and reduce potential conflicts between CBNRM relevant
    interventions and to reduce stress on already restrained human resource capacity.         More
    importantly, it will contribute to institutional and knowledge sustainability at several levels.
    Through ICEMA's component 3, the Ministry of Environment and Tourism will be supported
    to set up a CBNRM consultative forum and to develop and implement a CBNRM
    communication, knowledge management and replication strategy and action plan.

4. Institutional:
The project will be implemented by MET who will be nominated as the responsible executing
agency under the Grant Agreement with the National Planning Commission (NPC). A detailed
description o f the implementation arrangements can be found inannex 13.
MET's mandate includes strategic planning and coordination of environmental conservation,
establishment o f environmental and conservation concerns within national policy, coordination o f
land use planning and community-based conservation programs and the development o f policies,
plans and legislation. The MET's programmes support the establishment o f legal entities such as
conservancies, community forests (the first community-forest i s expected to be declared in2004)
and community-based enterprises in rural areas (see annex 12 for policy and legal framework
details). Additionally, MET's policies improve access to and productive use o f natural resources
on communal lands, through devolving management responsibilitieswith the right to benefit from
sustainable use of wildlife, eco-tourism and forest resources. The Directorate of Environmental
Affairs i s responsible to ensure sustainable management and utilization through its Biodiversity
Strategic Action Plan, its Program to combat desertification and bush encroachment and its
desertification action plan (NAPCOD) and INFOCOM monitoring systems. The Economics Unit
within DEA provides economic analysis which also contributes to understanding economic values
of natural resources and their potential markets, which informs decision makers for rural
development policies and programs.
During the project's preparation phase, the MET's ownership over the project increased
substantially until it confirmed full responsibility for implementation with outsourcing to NGOs,
conservancies and the private sector for MET's non-core activities. However, a preliminary
assessment during project preparation o f demonstrated the need to strengthen MET's delivery
capacity through targeted training and capacity building and a detailed institutional and
organizational internal review process. In addition, the pace and scope o f the project's roll-out
plan over its lifetime will correspond to existing and up-coming governmental and
NGOkonservancy capacity.



                                                 - 31 -

SummaryProjectFinancialManagementAnalysis Institutional -
The ICEMAproject is the first major Bank and GEF activity to be undertaken by Namibia. It is to
be implemented by the Ministry of Environment and Tourism (MET) through a specifically
created Project Office (PO). The compact PO, which will be headedby a PO Coordinator andwill
contain a Procurement Officer, an Accounting Officer and a Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist,
will house the project's financial management section. The 'section' will consist o f the Accounting
Officer, who will have the assistance o f the Administrative Assistant in the PO, as well as the
MET/ICEMA Steering Committee and the Permanent Secretary (PS) inthe MET at his disposal.

The terms o f reference for the hiring of the PO staff have been agreed with the Bank to ensure
that the positions are filled by persons whose qualifications and experience meet the Bank's
expectations for those positions.

The Accounting Officer will have operational responsibility for all project accounting, record
keeping, disbursement, general financial management, financial monitoring andreporting.

Inadditionto hiringthe best available staff:
0   A suitable Financial and Administrative Manual will be developed for use by the project;
0   An appropriate and user friendly computer basedaccounting system will be developed for the
    project;
0   The project would use standard double entry accounting that will comply with the
    Government of Namibia's cashaccounting system;
0   The necessaryFinancial MonitoringReports (FMRs) have been designed and agreedby
    negotiation;
0   Appropriate audit arrangements have been made for the project.

A detailed FinancialManagementAction Planincorporating all ofthe above is includedinthe
Annex 6 (B) to the PAD.
4.1 Executing agencies:
MET will be responsible for ensuring the smooth and efficient implementation of the project's
various technical programs. MET's Directorates (including DSS, DoF, DPWM, DOTand DEA
and others as necessary) will cooperate through a METACEMA Steering Committee that will
provide guidance to the technical aspects of all project activities; individual Directorates may take
the lead on some activities but in general all Directorates will potentially contribute to providing
technical input for all project sub-components. One role o f the Steering Committee will be to
ensure that such guidance is conducted efficiently, and it may thus from time to time delegate
specific technical tasks to individual Directorates (in a similar fashion that MET's Management
Committee currently operates).

The functions of the MET/ICEMA Steering Committee, in consultation with the Project Office,
will include: (i)preparing annual work plans for the project, identifying the roles of MET's
Directorates within the activities identified inthat plan; (ii)
                                                              developing terms o f reference (TORS),
short lists, and requests for proposals (RFPs) for consulting assignments, and providingkey inputs
for the preparation of bidding documents, including technical specifications, for goods contracts;
(iii)assisting the PO in establishing and maintaining a filing system to record all documentation in


                                                 - 32 -

relation to the project implementation; (iv) participating inbid evaluation and short-list approvals,
including those associated with the CFF; (v) advising on the need for retaining specific advise
from the TSAR; (vi) advising on the need for supportive research studies relating to MET policy
initiatives; (vii) contributing to M&E efforts as may be called for by the project's M&E system;
(viii) dealing with public relations concerns that may be referred to it by the Project Office; (ix)
being available for World Bank Supervision missions, which will be scheduled to ensure that
schedulesare mutually convenient.

The project will also be informed by CBNRM Consultative Forum that is available to the
METACEMA Steering Committee, and that comprises members from the stakeholder community
(including other Government Ministries [MAWRD, MLRR, MLRGH], CBOs, NGOs, and the
Donor Community inter alia.). It i s intended that through institutional strengthening under
Component 3, this function will have a more formal structure by the project mid-point. Project
budgetsprovide for regular gatherings or meetingso f the forum members to exchange views.

4.2 Project management:
A Project Office (PO) will be established to handle all day-to-day management issues of the
project. The Coordinator o f the PO reports directly to the PS o f MET, and, in addition to its
project management staff, the PO and MET have access to a roster o f experts (the Technical and
Scientific Support Roster) on an "as needed" basis to provide ad hoc external technical and
scientific support. The arrangements for project management have been clearly defined in the
project implementation plan. A detailed project monitoring and evaluation plan will be produced
by time o f effectiveness to monitor project implementation andperformance.
The PS MET, chair o f the MET/ICEMA Steering Committee, will approve the annual work plans
and budgets, after review and endorsement by the MET/ICEMA SC, as well as all official project
reports.
4.3 Procurement issues:

ProcurementArrangements
A Procurement Officer will be employedinthe Project Office and will be responsible for handling
all the project's procurement related matters.
A procurement plan will be preparedand updated annually. A detailed planwill only be required
for the first year o f implementation. The procurement plan i s part o f the Project Implementation
Manual (PIM). The P I M also includes the Financial and Administrative Manual which include a
section that lays out the institutional arrangements for procurement.
The procurement planwill include the following:
0    Thresholds for procurement methods and prior review have been determined by the
     procurement capacity assessment; for amounts below the thresholds only the first 5 contracts
     will be subject to prior review;
0    Project costs are presented per procurement category (works, goods, consultant
     servicedtraining) including contingencies; the government contribution when applicable i s
     included inthe total cost amount for each procurement category;
0    Consultant selection arrangement is spelled out;


                                                - 33 -

a   Statement o f Expenditures (SOEs) coincides with the prior review threshold for procurement,
    also inthe Grant Agreement;
0   Community-based procurement i s described separately in a manual because o f its specific
    character; since CB-procurement i s for sub-projects launched and carried out by communities
    duringthe project.

For project delivery, one can distinguish between the Community Funding Facility, which is
delivered substantially as a series o f small sub-projects in support o f Component 1, and all other
disbursements related to Components 1-4. Subprojects are decentralized to relevant Community
Based Organizations for micro-project development in support o f income-generating activities.
Once a designated conservancy has been awarded a sub-project, management of the finds for that
sub-project - including procurement and contracting decisions - are vested with that conservancy
so long as the contract is below a certain threshold (US$50,000). For larger sub-project
expenditures (e.g., civil works projects for community lodges), MET will exercise further controls
by having greater oversight over the procurementprocesses (above threshold o f $50,000).

DisbursementArrangements
The flow of finds arrangements for the project will entail the operation o f three bank accounts as
follows :
0   Two bank accounts to house the GEF funds:
   o    The US$ denominated Special Account (SA) to be operated by the counterpart and held
        at the Bank o f Namibia;
   o    A Namibia $ denominated Project Account (PA) also to be operated by the counterpart
        andheldat a local commercial bank.
    One Namibia $ denominated `Counterpart Fund' Account (CFA) to be held at a local
    commercial bank to house finds dedicated by the counterpart to the project.

IBRD will disburse the initial advance from the proceeds of the grant into the Special Account.
Actual expenditure there-from will be reimbursedthrough submission o f Withdrawal Applications
(WA s) and against Statements o f Expenditure (SOE s) which will be approved in accordance
with internal control procedures to be established by the Project Office.

Counterpart funds will be allocated through the normal Central Government budgetary process,
but inaddition, actual cheques have to be raised and the amounts deposited into the CFA for the
project's ongoing use. An initial advance from Government will be required to open the bank
account . This will be reinforced by VAT refinds which the Ministry o f Finance agreed to credit
direct to the project's counterpart fund account.

All three bank accounts should be inplace by the time of effectiveness. Details of the necessary
authorizations andthe bank account signatories should be documented as part of the Financial and
Administrative Manual.
4.4 Financial management issues:
FinancialManagement
The financial management function i s housed inthe PO. The Accounting Officer will report to the
Project Coordinator and will have total responsibility for the accounting, record keeping,


                                                - 34 -

disbursements and financial reporting for the project. To facilitate easy identification o f sources as
well as the utilization o f funds, separate accounts will be maintained for the individual donor
agencies into which the amount received will be deposited. The following accounts would be
established:
o   Special Account for GEF denominated inU S dollars would be established against which funds
    from the Grant account will be transferred to.
o   Project Account denominated in Namibian Dollars in which funds are periodically deposited
    from the Special Account to finance project activities.
o   GRN funding account denominated inNamibian Dollars to channel GRN Counterpart funding
    support to project. This account will receive advances from the MET budget and from VAT
    refunds generated and retainedby the project.

Audit Arrangements
The project financial statements, including the Special Account and the Project Account, will be
subject to annual audit by the Controller and Auditor General (CAG). It has been established that
the CAG may sub-contract the responsibility to a qualified firm of auditors. The audit of the
preparatory grant was contracted to KPMG, however a fresh tender will be necessary for the
audit o f the full grant, once it i s received. The auditor will be required to express an opinion on
the audited project financial statements only, in compliance with International Standards on
Auditing(IFAC/INTOSAI pronouncements).
5. Environmental:                         Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues andtheir treatment emerging from this analysis.
A full environmental and social assessment (ESA) was undertaken by recruited local and
international consultants as part o f the project preparation process. It has been carried out in line
with Namibia's National Environmental Assessment Policy, the emerging Environmental
Management Bill and the applicable World Bank safeguard policies (OP 4.01, OD 4.20, OD 4.30,
OPN 11.03 and OP 4.04). The ESA provides an analysis o f all biophysical and social impacts
associated with the implementation of the project and its activities. It includes 4 volumes: (i)
Volume 1, the executive summary; (ii)          Volume 2, the main ESA report; (iii)        Volume 3, the
Indigenous People Development Plan (IPDP) and (iv) Volume 4, the Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF). The main ESA report contains an assessmento f each component; the analysis
of the project environmental and social impacts; a mitigation plan with measures to limit these
impacts and a separate environmental management plan. The ESA methodology i s based on
documentation review, technical analysis and a detailed consultative process including an audit o f
the National CBNRM Program with all concerned stakeholders. As the overall project aims to
promote integrated ecosystem management and thereby restore, secure and enhance ecosystem
processes, the ESA concluded that the ICEMA project is likely to be very beneficial to CBNRM
inNamibia whilst any potentialnegative impacts are expected to beminimalandcanbemitigated.


The ESA analysis has concluded that under this project no impacts related to displacement o f
population are foreseen. For the specific case o f project interventions in conservancies with San
populations, an Indigenous People Development Plan has been developed. The IPDP defines the
project activities and mitigation measures that San consider as profitable for them in terms of


                                                    - 35 -

social, economic, cultural and environmental development.

The revisedand final ESA, the IPDP and the RPF have been officially reviewedand cleared by the
Directorate o f Environmental Affairs, Ministry of Environment and Tourism. The documents have
been disclosed through the MET'SCBNRM webpage.

The Project Office located inthe MET PS Office will be responsible for ensuring compliance with
the Bank's as well as Namibian EA procedures. The different Directorates under the MET will
effectively manage implementation o f safeguard measures for those activities and sub-components
where the respective Directorateis taking the lead on overall implementation.

The Namibian EIA processes are already being extensively applied in-country and only modest
need for training i s expected. Still, capacity buildingat national and local (conservancy) level will
be needed for Bank safeguard requirements and procedures. Several workshops and training
courses have beenplanned and budgeted for under the ICEMA project.

It is    expected that only selected activities under Component                 1 (Ecosystem-Based
Income-Generating Activities) and 2 (Sustainable Ecosystem Management) are likely to trigger
formal EA processes, e.g. development o f alternative income generating possibilities through
small-scale business including community-based tourism investments, ecosystem restoration,
rehabilitation measuresincluding infrastructure and translocation.
5.2 What are the mainfeatures of the EMPand are they adequate?
An Environmental and Social Management Framework has been specified in the ESA report
(section 8). It consists of 4 sub-sections: project risks, decision making processes at conservancy
and national levels, capacity buildingrequirements and conclusion.

Eightkey issues have been identified as a potential cause for concern:
(i)Consistent and favorable policy environment
(ii)Institutional relationships
(iii)Govemance within conservancies
(iv) Community empowerment
(v) Natural Resource Management
(vi) Poverty Alleviation
(vii) Gender issues
(viii) Distribution andreinvestment ofincome

Inmany cases the mitigation measures recommended are already inplace and/or canbe built into
the way in which the executing agencies carry out their work with local communities. Moreover,
development o f capacity and awareness for environmentally and socially sound management, at
the beneficiary level, will be emphasized as the project provides for significant technical assistance
for capacity buildingand training at local and national levels.

The ESA report further assesses potential negative social and biophysical impact and other key
issues of the ICEMA project and identifies appropriate mitigation measures at a sub-component



                                                  - 36 -

level (section 7). Overall impacts of the project are expected to be o f positive. All identified
potentially negative impacts can be mitigated within the current project design as well as within
existing national EIA mechanisms. Annual project workplans which will be reviewed each year as
well as sub-projects to be submitted under the Community-Funding Facility will also be screened
and assessed for environmental and social safeguards issues in relation to the investments and
activities proposed for the following year o f project implementation. Applicable mitigation
measures would thus be integratedinto annual work plans andbudget allocation.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
                     Date ofreceipt of final draft: 12/31/2003
The TORSfor the EA and the IPDP and RPF were reviewed by ASPEN and a non-objection was
given. ASPEN and the Ministry o f Environment of Tourism have cleared the EA, RPF and IPDP
documents. The EA, RPF and IPDP documents are disclosed in-country and have been sent to the
Bank Information desk (Infoshop).

5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The terms ofreference ofthe environmental assessment have beendeveloped inclose consultation
with the key stakeholders involved (MET, donor programs and NGOs). Furthermore, a
participatory process led to an audit o f the past achievements CBNRM Program and the
anticipated ICEMA project (see audit results in section 4 o f the ESA). As part of the process
multiple field visits to conservancies were conducted and consultations have taken place with
representatives o f communities and representatives o f local civil society organizations. The
document was drafted based on these discussions and consultations and the process ended with a
multi-stakeholder workshop including MET and local NGO representatives as well as other
relevant stakeholders. The draft ESA was circulated to local NGOs supporting conservancies
following the workshop to consulted on information provided inthe document.

The ESA provides for awareness and training workshops of national and local stakeholders and
training activities will be held for monitoring and evaluation systems to follow-up on the impact of
proposed measures. Site-specific consultations through the MET and other stakeholders are
planned with communities o f potential target sites, including San communities (currently 10
potential sites are identifiedfor year 1).
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor andevaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? D o the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The project's component 2 includes a sub-component supporting the development of a simple and
adapted local level monitoring and evaluation function in targeted conservancies based on the
baseline assessment and the CBIEM plan. It provides for capacity-building to develop suitable
local level impact indicators, to collect, use and manage data and builds on previous support
provided to conservancies on the establishment o f resource inventories and the development o f
the conservancy management plan.
In addition, the project's component 3 includes a sub-component to strengthen MET'Seffort to
build a comprehensive CBNRM m&e database and m&e system linked to other existing
environmental database structures. Both levels, national and local level, will be interlinked. The


                                                     - 37 -

project performance monitoring and evaluation systems located at the PO level, will contain the
activities to be monitored, the methodology, assignment o f responsibility, and tools for assessing
whether the identifiedmitigation measures have been successfully implemented.
The project performance and impact indicators as well as the mid-termbenchmarks reflect the
objectives and results o f the ESA and the EMP. The project monitoring and evaluation manual as
well as the Project Implementation Plan will include the results and mitigation measures as well
as monitoring and evaluation suggestions of all ESA volumes.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project is designed to have a positive social benefit to communities in conservancies targeted
by the project. Communities living in these conservancies will benefit from new employment
opportunities, especially in the tourism sector, and other income-generating activities with
equitable benefits to conservancy members through sustainable use o f ecosystems. The project
will support the development and implementation of conservancy business frameworks also
promoting equitable sharing of cost and benefits within a conservancy.

The Environmental and Social Assessment identifiedthe following three key social issues:
(i) ofexclusionofstakeholdergroups
   risk
(ii) toprojectbenefits
    access
(iii)
    conflicting demand on same resources.
The project design has built inmitigation measuresacross component 1, 2 and 3 as to strengthen
social capacity, empowerment, improve accountability and social inclusion, cohesion and to
increase equity.

As part of project preparationprocess, a Indigenous Peoples Development Plan and Resettlement
Policy Framework have been developed under coordination o f the MET. The central premise o f
the action plans proposed in each o f two documents i s to integrate activities into the project
design that enable the achievement of desired social outcomes and put inplace adequate measures
and mechanism aimed at avoiding or reducing possible negative social impacts.

The San people, known as the country's earliest inhabitants, live in some of the potential project
target areas (Tsumkwe District, West Caprivi, North Central, and Otjozondjupa), the project i s
therefore paying special attention to first avoid and secondly mitigate any direct or indirect
negative impact the project could cause on the San in the project area. For this purpose, an
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) inline with the Indigenous People's safeguard
policy (OD 4.20) was developed to ensure that the San benefit from the project and to endeavor
to maximize positive effects o f the project to the San. A description o f the indigenous peoples
action plan including a provision for social assessments of San in target conservancies and an
annual monitoring and review o f San issues i s provided inthe IPDP.

The Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) provides an explanation of the World Banks
Involuntary Resettlement Policy OP4.12 and how it relates to the ICEMA project. N o
displacement o f population i s foreseen under the ICEMA project. A description o f the RPF
processes for the project, including how RAPSshould be,designed if needed, i s provided in the


                                                  - 38 -

  RPF as well as inSection 2.8.1.2.1 o f the ESA (Vol. 2).
  6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating inthe project?
  FN.Formore detailed information, see annex 20.

  The project builds on partnerships, working relationships and other collaboration schemes
  between local communities in communal conservancies, decentralized and central governmental
  services, private sector, and NGO members. Information sharing, consultation and collaboration
  among these key stakeholders are essential and assured through the projects knowledge
  management program and the CBNRM consultative group (to be created). All key stakeholders
  have been consulted under the leadership o f MET, supported by NACSO secretariat and the PDF
  B Management Committee throughout the preparation process. The implementation of the
  communication strategy, developed during project preparation, under component 3's knowledge
  management sub-component will ensure that results, lessons learned and updated on the CBNRM
  Program are disseminated. Further, the project will support the establishment o f a national
  communal conservancy association and regional communal conservancy associations.

  It is important to recognize the role of the conservancy management plans (CMPs) inthe context
  o f conservancy-level activities and investments. Conservancy members are actively involved in
  conservancy management planning at all stages. This means that conservancy members have
  amble opportunities to participate indecision making processesso that they can negotiate with the
  conservancy management committee representing the conservancy and leading the planning
  process. Inthose conservancies with San members where the project will support interventions or
3 investments, San participation inconservancy management committees will be encouraged.
  6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
  organizations?
  The Government fully acknowledges the outstanding contributions made by NGOs and other
  agencies in the CBNRM field, within the overall policy framework for CBNRM as established by
  Government. While the Namibian Government has said that (see policy letter inannex 12) it i s not
  able to include NGOs in the direct management o f the project, there has been wide consultation
  with the NGO community (members o f NACSO Namibia Community Based Natural Resource
  Management Support Organizations and others) concerning this project. This community have
  confirmed full support to the ICEMA approach. Further,NGOs, conservancies and private sector
  forms will be eligible to participate through contracting on many o f the project's activities as
  service providers. Training, decentralized M&E, and execution o f sub-projects will all be
  facilitated by tendering such activities to these groups through standard procurement
  arrangements. Of special note, however, will be their role in delivering Component 1 activities
  associated with the Community FundingFacility and its related technical assistance. The general
  organization o f the project has all procurement channeled through the MET via the Project Office.
  In the case of sub-projects under the $1.7 million CFF, the PO will receive proposals from
  conservancies and others to undertake such small-scale activities. The proposals will have been
  developed using technical assistance funds that are also available through the MET PO for
  undertaking feasibility studies or developing proposals. Inthis manner,' NGOs, for example, may
  be contracted by MET/PO to assist conservancies or others to develop detailed sub-project
  proposals. Once received, the sub-project proposal will be evaluated by MET and, if successful,


                                                    - 39 -

funds will be made available to the particular conservancy for that sub-project. Actual
implementation of the sub-project will then become the responsibility o f that conservancy.
Procurement and disbursement will be conservancy responsibility, with various procedures being
followed according to a sub-project operational manual. Conservancy implementation will in
principle be locally driven, but may require input from MET for authorizations above certain
thresholds (US$50,0000) or when technical advice might be required. Reporting to the MET PO
will depend on sub-project duration; short projects (4 year) will require monthly progress
reports while longer sub-projects will require quarterly reports.

NGOs have been consulted throughout project preparation and will continue to have the
opportunity to participate inproviding strategic guidance through the CBNRM consultative group
that will be established under the project. The CBNRM consultative group also plays an important
role for coordination with other donor supported interventions working in rural areas through
civil society representatives. Further, the implementation of the communication strategy as part of
the knowledge management sub-component (C3) will enhance permanent exchange and
discussion with NGOs and other civil society organization. The project will also support
conservancies in their efforts to form a national and regional conservancy associations to ensure
bottom-up participation of conservancy members through representatives in the National
CBNRMProgram (see also annex 20).
6.4 What institutional arrangements have beenprovidedto ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?

FN.For more information on local governance andparticipationinconservancies see annex 20.

Conservancies are managed by conservancy committees. These bodies are composed of
democratically elected members and are responsible for institutional management: planning,
overseeing implementation of plans, personnel management, financial management, reporting,
networking and communication. Conservancy committees are also engaged inthe development of
land, natural resource and tourism management plans to provide for better management and
community-guided implementation in their areas. Conservancy leaders are accountable to its
members for transparent, democratic, equitable, constituted and sound planning and management
including benefit distribution. Conservancies are also accountable to the MET on the basis o f the
legal and policy framework for conservancies.

The project's components 1 and 2 targets local level institutions such as registered conservancy
committees. I t aims to increase governance, transparency, fair benefit sharing at local level
through provision of technical assistance, training and capacity-building activities. Community
making processes will be strengthened, community leaders will be held accountable for their
actions, and transparent leadership will be encouraged.

Furthermore, the project will actively support the MET and the conservancies to continue and
strengthen their efforts towards the formation of a National Conservancy Association (potentially
called NACA). This association is expected to enhance the legitimacy, bargaining power of
conservancies and facilitate the direct dialogue with central government. Importantly, rural
communities will gain enhanced exposure to democracy and governance. An added advantage of



                                                 -40-

the association will be the conservancy-to-conservancy exchange and sharing which will be
supported under ICEMA's knowledge management sub-component. In addition, the project will
respond to the request of specific conservancies to form regional conservancy associations,
thereby supporting bottom-up institutional strengthening among conservancies, identifying
synergies o f poolingtogether resources (e.g. wildlife, wild plants, know-how and lessons learned,
contacts with service providers).

In the shift towards community based integrated ecosystem management that is supported
through the project, joint planning and management with other institutional arrangement at local
level will be improved, e.g. local water committees, rangeland committees, forest committees.
The achievement of the project's social development outcomes is based on (i) use of thethe
voluntary conservancy development guide or other planning tools which enables conservancy
members to decide on their own path based on a transparent self-assessment o f their resources,
capacities and development vision and on (ii)   the project's support for a close interaction between
central and decentralized govemmental, non-governmental and private support to deliver
demand-drivenservices to communal conservancies based on annual work plans.
6.5 How will the projectmonitorperformance interms of social development outcomes?
The project has identifiedas one of its key performance indicators for its development objective
"MET as CBNRh4 lead agency established effective partnerships with other agencies and
institutions, including local governments, NGOs and private sector to enable achievements o f
project objective in an efficient and effective manner.'' The measurement o f this KPI will be based
on 10 priority actions including enhanced knowledge management and institutional strengthening
among stakeholders at national and local level. The monitoring and evaluation system will further
include i)social indicators focusing on livelihood impact and institutional performance (adequacy
o f resource allocation, economic efficiency, transparency and accountability) at local and service
delivery level as well as ii)indicators identified in the IPDP monitoring plan. Feed-back loops
between local, national and project level m&e system will allow local stakeholder to receive
socioeconomic and environmental data for their own analysis anduse.
Finally, ICEMA will use data and results of the first household survey in conservancies (activity
funded initially by DFID and evaluated jointly by research colleageus of MET and the WB) to
prepare and implement the first cost-effectiveness study o f conservancies (under component 3).

The TSAR will include a social scientist to assist inparticular with compliance o f the IPDP action
plan. The Bank's supervision team will also include a social scientist to monitor and advise on the
coummunity aspects o f the project.

7. SafeguardPolicies:


     EnvironmentalAssessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                    0 Yes 0No
     Natural Habitats(OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                               Yes 0 NO
     Forestry(OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                             0Yes 0 No
     Pest Management(OP 4.09)                                               0Yes      No
     Cultural Property(OPN 11.03)                                           0Yes 0 No
     IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20)                                             0 Yes 0No


                                                -41  -

    InvoluntaryResettlement(OPIBP 4.12)                                  0 Yes 0No
    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP4.37)                                     0Yes 0No
    Projects in InternationalWaters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)          0Yes 0No
    Projects in DisputedAreas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*               0Yes 0No

7.2 Describeprovisionsmade by the projectto ensure compliance with applicablesafeguardpolicies.
The environmental and social assessment (ESA) examined the project's potential negative
environmental and social impacts and recommended measures to prevent, minimize, mitigate, and
compensate for adverse impacts and improve environmental performance. Overall, a positive
natural habitat outcome is expected from project implementation in terms of biodiversity
conservation and improved integrated ecosystem management. The ESA lead to the definition o f
an Environmental Management Framework, an Indigenous People Development Plan and a
Resettlement Policy Framework. ICEMA will follow recommendations to mitigate undesirable
impacts as identified:

Central role of CMPs inthe local-levelplanning; process:
The role o f the conservancy management plans (CMPs) have a central role in the context o f
conservancy-level activities and investments. All micro-project within an conservancy are planned
in line with the respective CMP. The CMP provides the overall vision for the conservancy and
outlines development priorities specific to the conservancy (e.g. income generating activities),
parameters for resource utilization, rangeland and wildlife management, infrastructure
development, etc. Thus, potentially negative social or biophysical impact will be identified and
prevented or addressed at CMP level. The ICEMA project will provide technical support for
improving and upgrading existing CMPs (component 2). This support would include the
integration o f safeguard issues into CMPs.




                                                  - 42 -

Illustration of the overarching framework policies and laws, and the various levels of
planningthat are required for the successful implementation of the project




Some conservancy-level activity or investment developed in the context o f the CMPs might
require an EIA. Namibia's EnvironmentalAssessment Policy is clear on the process that must be
followed in the mitigation o f impacts through conducting EIAs (more details on EIA process can
be found in section 8 o f the Environmental and Social Assessment prepared for the ICEMA
project).

Component 1 - Ecosystem-based income-generating activities. Complementing the CFF
sub-project eligibility criteria for all targeted conservancies (described in the CFF manual), this
component provides for the creation, distribution and implementation of a generic checklist for
safeguard issues. The intent of the checklist i s to ensure that safeguards are upheld at the
sub-project level.

Component 2 - Sustainable EcosystemManapement. Site selection and design o f activities within
this component provides for incorporating safeguard elements, and for compliance monitoring of
those safeguards at a decentralized level. Pilot activities will be implemented only if feasibility
studies have shown no negative impact.

Comuonent 3 - Targeted Institutional Support. All M&E activities coordinated centrally will
report on safeguard issues.

Component 4 - Project Management Support. An annual safeguard report will be prepared by the
Project Office.


                                                  - 43 -

Additional cost to ensure safeguard compliance.
Project funds needed to ensure compliance with safeguard measures are integratedinto budget for
all operational processes. The CFF manual, for example, has included safeguard issues within its
screening activities. Similarly, all planning activities include safeguard issues. Therefore costs for
compliance with safeguard issues are not listed as a separate cost item, but integrated inparticular
under the budget for the project office, budget for M&E, budget for TSAR, and budget for
development of management plans. The underlying reason for the above i s that safeguard issues
can not be implemented as a standard activity that canbe replicated across all conservancies inthe
same fashion. Instead the project is following a community-driven approach and safeguard
activities will need to be integrated into site-specific actions and investments planned and
reviewed on an annual basis through the annual work plans.

Other.
GRN is committed to ensuring that no involuntary resettlement occurs within this project and that
the rights of indigenous people will be protectedconsistent with the laws of GRN. GEF funds will
not be used for resettlement or direct compensation; if and where such funds are required, GRN
will use its own resources to finance such undertakings. Ifsuch funds are unavailable from these
resources, activities will be adjusted to remove the impacts that might necessitate such
compensation.

Implementation of the Indigenous Peoples Action Plan
An indigenous peoples actions plan was developed to ensure compliance with the indigenous
peoples concerns. The key elements o f the Indigenouspeoples action plan provide for:

0   San Village Development Committees could ensure that San interests are properly reflected in
    conservancy structures.
0   Conservancy trusts where San are a minority should be the first point of contact for such San.
0   Strategic social assessments will be carried out on an annual basis at individual San
    community level inall conservancies with San that have been identified for investments inthe
    respective annual work plan. These assessments would identify how Sanwould be
    enabledencouragedthrough self-help groups and otherwise to participate inthe
    conservancies.
0   Ensure that San are represented on conservancy committees inproportion to their population.
0   Conservancy personnel will be mobilized to address San issues, and their capacity to do so
    will be built with project resources for field operations.
0   San issues to be integrated into each relevant conservancy management plan
0   Half-yearly assessment to review Sanprogress would be carried out. WIMSA has been
    identified as a candidate for monitoring and evaluation of San issues, developing databases
    and training, etc.
0   Design of group and household development/income plans for San as part of the conservancy
    benefit distribution plans that will be developedwith support o f the project.
0   A social specialist would be part ofthe Technical and Scientific Advisory Roster to guidance
    and advice on San issues.
0   A grievance committee for Sanwith representation from the Conservancy, the San


                                                 - 44 -

    community, MET and WIMSA would be established.

Implementationo f a Resettlement Action Plan
An template resettlement action plan was developed to ensure compliance with the resettlement
policy framework. In the case o f involuntary resettlement, the conservancy committee (either on
its own or assisted by development partners) i s responsible for developing the Resettlement
Action Plan (RAP), and the process must be consultative and transparent. The RAP must then be
submitted to the Land Board for the region within which the conservancy i s based, and the board
should provide its opinion about the appropriateness of the RAP (figure below). The presence of
all the key government ministries on the Land Board (which operates under the guidance of the
Governor) enables multi-sector input and screening at local level. Thereafter, the Land Board
submits the RAP, together with is recommendations, to the Ministryof Environment and Tourism
(MET) who inturn invite comments from the World Bank. Once these are received, the MET and
the Ministry of Lands, Resettlement and Rehabilitation (MLRR) jointly evaluate the RAP, taking
account of the comments made by the LandBoardand the World Bank. Once they approve o f the
RAP, the MLRR formally communicates this decision to the conservancy, providing a copy of its
approval to the Land Board. It i s thereafter the responsibility of the conservancy to implement the
RAP, and to provide feedback (on the basis of an agreed monitoring and evaluation plan) to
MET.
Processto be followed in approvinga ResettlementActionPlan and ininformingthe
relevantauthoritiesof progressinitsimplementation.




                                                 - 4 5 -

                                          j Conservancy     Committee
                                                 (draws uR the RAP)


                                              Regional Land Board
                                                 (comments on RAP)



                                            Ministry of Environment
                                                  and Tourism                      ,
                                                                                   .........
                               (receives RAP and requests comments from World Bank)



                                                  World Bank
                               (recommends approval/ improvements/rejection of RAP)




                             Conservancy Committee             Regional Land Board
                                   (implement RAP)
                                          .1
                               Monitoring and evaluation

                                                             Reporting and feedback




Thus, the implementationof this project must encourage the conservancies to undertake as much
of the planning and decision-making as possible at the local level, since this is an important aspect
of capacity buildingand empowerment. However, it is also necessary that the conservancy
maintain a direct line of communication with the MET, especially on issues that are likely to
require a higher level of planning, such as an EIA.




                                                        - 4 6 -

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project supports a holistic approach to establish and sustainably ground community-based
integrated ecosystem management inthe conservancy network andNational CBNRM Program of
Namibia. Intensive consultation with all CBNRM stakeholders throughout the entire project
preparation process (about 2 years) provided for a detailed assessment of the baseline situation
leading to a carefully designed and realistic project with the overall goal to ensure longer term
ecological, social, institutional and economic sustainability. In addition, the lessons learned from
the past years o f the CBNRM Program have shown the need to promote CBIEM under an
adaptive management approach, strong on learning and feedback loops. ICEMA's design has
incorporated these elements and promotes a phased approach under each o f its components
(piloting and testing, monitoring and evaluating before developing models and mechanism to be
rolled out) which i s expected to contribute to social, economic, financial, ecological and
institutional sustainability o f the CBNRM Program as a whole and individual conservancies.
These sustainability aspects will be achieved through multiplelinkedefforts described below.
(i)Economic and social sustainability: ICEMA will pilot and expand on capacity-building
activities for business planning, management and monitoring at conservancy as well as at
sub-project level under its component 1"Ecosystem-Based Income-GeneratingActivities" and the
Community-Funding Facility. The proposed CDD approach to provide direct resources to
targeted conservancies for their identified sub-projects is expected to significantly empower local
communities and to provide an adequate basis for future economic and social sustainability of
conservancies as institutions and as a group of poor rural households. Sub-project screening
criteria (see annex 19) include social development criteria such as gender sensitivity, equitable
access to resources and the use of culturally appropriate economic development. Successful
approaches (in terms o f economic and social performance and acceptance as well as in terms of
meeting ecological targets) will be rolled out during the project's lifetime. More importantly, the
project will support the development of applicable and manageable benefit-distribution guidelines
andmodels which has been one of the short-falls of the previous years.
(ii)Financial sustainability: Most conservancies depend currently on external support to cover
their operating costs. However, a few conservancies have managed to become financially viable.
Although some o f the factors for these champions are known informally (e.g. environmental,
social and financial assets, conservancy priorities and level o f support received), no official study
or report provides a detailed assessment. Therefore, ICEMA will undertake also a
cost-effectiveness analysis o f conservancies under its component 3            Targeted Institutional
Support" to provide a sound financial and nonfinancial insight in external and internal costs and
benefits related to conservancy planning, management and monitoring. These results are expected
to better guide overall communal conservancy development trends and to adapt strategic and
operational CBNRM supportive decisions.
In summary, the project's sustainable financing strategy is based on a mix of several elements
targeting the local as well the national level: (i) cost reduction at local level through improved
planning and increasing capacity building and learning curve, simplified procedures for business
plans and benefit distribution, and poolingo f resources betweenneighboring conservancies (under



                                                - 47 -

ICEMA's component 1 and 2); (ii)      increasing ecosystem-based income generation activities (as
promotedunder ICEMA's component 1) and (iii)        long term fundingthrough the development of a
sustainable financing plan for the National CBNRM Program, designed by mid-term (under
ICEMA's component 3 "Targeted Institutional Support")
(iii)Ecological sustainability: The project will contribute to ecological sustainability through
enhanced local and national ecosystem planning, management and monitoring and evaluation
systems under its component 2 "Sustainable Ecosystem Management". Linkages between
communal conservancies, freehold conservancies, national parks and other community-managed
areas will substantially increase conservation zones that are providing habitats and important
biological corridors for wildlife movement (e.g. one main area of the project's intervention zone i s
inthe NorthWest inbetween2 NationalParks, Ethosha and the SkeletonCoast). At MET's level,
the Directorate o f Scientific Services and the Directorate o f Parks and Wildlife Management are
closely working together to ensure that communal and freehold conservancies and national parks
support the broader national and sub-regional ecosystem and corridor approach (using detailed
aerial surveys and remote sensing results). The development and implementation of the
tailor-made local level integrated management plans for registered conservancies will address
cross-cutting sustainability issues (social, ecological, economic/financial), based on a detailed
baseline assessment of the resource base, communities and their livelihoods and identify suitable
sustainable land and resource use options. Specific interventions for ecosystem restoration and
rehabilitation will be tested and rolled out if successfully. This implies that each activity will be
embedded ina framework o f feasibility studies, piloting o f investments and local and national level
monitoring and evaluation.
However, ecological sustainability differs from social, economic, financial and institutional
sustainability as it needs a much larger time frame for impact assessment and sustainability
purposes. The limited time frame o f most projects, in the case o f ICEMA 5 years, does make it
difficult to predict longer term ecological sustainability.
(iv) Institutional sustainability: The project supports through its component 3 "Targeted
Institutional Support'' capacity buildingmeasures mainly within the Ministry o f Environment and
Tourism. It aims to strengthen CBNRM coordination among various MET directorates and to
improve their capacity by (i)providing a basis for streamlining MET's CBNRM delivery
mechanisms; (ii)providing a basis for staff training on CBNRM issues; (iii)providing
implementation support for new government regulations and policies relating to CBNRM.
Inaddition, the project implementationstructure includesa CBNRM Consultative Forumthat will
be spear-headed by MET and that will involve all national stakeholders (related line ministries,
local conservancies, NGOs, donors) in an effort to promote the principles o f CBIEM and to
coordinate nation-wide efforts inthat regard.
At local level, the project does reinforce existing local governing structures (mainly conservancy
committees) through the delivery o f locally needed technical and financial services related to
inter-conservancy exchanges and leaming events supporting the creation of regional conservancy
associations andthe national conservancy association.




                                                - 4 8 -

la. Replicability:
The MET and the NACSO network have both taken stock of the main lessons generated under
the first generation of the National CBNRM Program (see section D.3. for more details). The key
lessons incorporated into ICEMA's project design include (i)the move away from a limited
sectoral (tourism and wildlife) towards an integrated ecosystem management approach, (ii)                the
strengthening of the institutional and policy framework at central and local level including the
establishment o f accessible monitoring and evaluation mechanisms, and (iii)strong emphasis on
                                                                                      a
a community-driven approach towards conservancy related investments and livelihood options.
Through its pilot character in selected areas (e.g. game translocation, ecosystem restoration, use
of Community-Fund Facility) the proposed project will provide additional lessons learned for
replication and scaling-up, ifappropriate.

Renlicationplan
The project design i s based on the long-term objective to replicate and scale-up cost-effectively
successful interventions and lessons learned in other conservancies with similar socioeconomic
and environmental conditions in Namibia as well as in sub-regional CBNRM Programs. In
particular the components 1 and 2 (interventions on the ground) are structured to enhance such
replication o f positive experiences after ICEMA's lifetime provided that sufficient funds from
national budget andor other sources (e.g. donors, private sector) will be made available. Capacity
buildingfor MET staff and conservancies will be essential for both sustainability and replication.
In addition, the project design aims to provide lessons learned for integrated ecosystem
management, inparticular under component 3, to (i)           undertake an economic efficiency analysis in
selected conservancies; and (ii) introduce additional quality enhancement features in the m&e
                                     to
system such as an external annual audit and a risk verification strategy.
The replication approach will be based on providing improved access and facilitating an exchange
of information and good practices and i s expected to respond to the differentneeds o f the various

expected to be used as input inthe up-coming National Development Plan (NDP I112005 - 2009)
stakeholders (conservancies, governmental services, donors) involved. Replication results are

and thereby contributing to continuity and sustainability. Furthermore, the knowledge
management approach will include and thereby strengthen existing indigenous knowledge on
resource planning, resource uses and resource monitoring. Various instrumentswill be used for
information dissemination, such as (i)     conservancy exchanges (e.g. through enabling the proposed
conservancy associations); (ii)    workshops at grass-roots and national level on specific themes; (iii)
annual publication o f the national CBNRM Program documents (e.g. the Annual State o f
Conservancy Report); and (iv) study tours throughout the country. A budget will be earmarked
for this knowledge transfer.


2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
The major risks that need to be addressedduringproject implementation are the following:
 i.deliverycapacityconstraints;and,
ii.ineffectiveimplementationofsmall-scaleinvestmentsatthecommunitylevel.




                                                      - 4 9 -

The primary internalized mitigation measures involve adaptive learning processes and the use of
small-scale interventions, with strong elements of M&E controls throughout the management
process. For example:
    all investments will be undertaken against feasibility studies that have been done with local
    participation;
    the approximately US$2 million Community Funding Facility will be made available to
    conservancies and other conservancies only through small sub-projects (usually <$50,000 per
    sub-project for small-scale enterprises; Community eco-lodges will also be treated as
    sub-projects but with closer MET oversight) against established criteria.
    larger activities that involve opportunistic site-specific investments (e.g. translocation or
    strengthening o f local wildlife management capacity) will be coordinated by the relevant MET
    directorates, with specific tasks being delegated to local partners in the NGO and private
    sector community to avoid capacity bottlenecks.
    M&E controls within the project are in-built at two levels: (a) local conservancies and other
    conservancies; and, (b) centralized activities to strengthen MET capacity. A knowledge
    management system that helps identify and improve learning opportunities i s an integral part
    o f this system.
    MET will have available to it throughout the project the expertise on a technical and scientific
    advisory roster (TSAR) to use as and when needed to assist inrisk mitigation.

                    Risk                   Risk Rating                 Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputsto Objective
Output 1:Inadequatelocal community              N          Communitieswill have accessto planning
commitment to specificecosystem-based                      resourcesand will be requiredto provide
income-generatingactivities.                               self-contributionsin-kind.
Output2: Long-termbeneficialimpact               S         Access to TAs for multiple sites, which will in
fiom IEMmay not be evident within                          tumbe screenedto identify mostappropriate
project timeframe, thus hinderingpotential                 investments.
for subsequent replication.
Output 3:Insufficient integrationof             M          EnsureMET's active engagement inall
CBNRM into other ministerial policies                      inter-ministerialconsultationthat may effect the
(seeFN).                                                   National CBNRM Program.This will be
                                                            formalizedthroughthe establishment of a
                                                           CBNRM Consultative Group including sectoral
                                                            ministries, NGOs, donors andprivate sector.
From Components to Outputs
1, Failure of subprojectsto generate             M          1. Adaptive managementandknowledge
meaningfulincometo local communities.                       managementapproachpermits changesin
                                                            subproject selectioncriteria to promote
                                                            successful models through areplication planto
                                                            be implementedstarting at projectmid-term.
2. Lack of local experience for some of          M          2. Participatory approachto CBIEMplanning,
the innovativepilot activities and                          implementationandmonitoringandevaluation
investments                                                 will be strongly supported.
3. Insufficient integrationof CBNRM into         N          3. Specific TA to MET to explore different
MET's sectoral directorates.                                optionsto mainstreamCBNRM.



                                               - 50 -

4. Inability to findqualified national PO        M          4. Possibility to recruit regional.
staff.
Overall Risk Rating                              M




Typeof Risk                              Risk  Remarks andpossible mitigation
                                        Rating
InherentRisk
1.       Funds may not be used inan      M    A significant proportiono fthe implementation willbe
efficient and economical way and              inthe handsofestablished agencies with competences
exclusively for purposes intended.            inthe areas that they get selected for, butequally there
                                              willbe communities, particularly on the CFF, that will
                                              not have the capacity to manage the funds efficiently.
                                              Clearly documented monitoringprocedures to be
                                              developed.

2.       GRNmay be unable to meet         N    Appropriate andpractical arrangements have been
its funding obligations due to                 made to capture VAT onproject expendituresfor
budgetary constraints                          re-use by project, in addition to a budget line
                                               created spec$cally for theproject.
OverallInherentRisk                      M
ControlRisk
a.       ImplementingEntity               S   Lack o f experience o f Bank financed projects. Closer
                                              liaison with supervision team criticalfor project
                                              success.
b.       Funds Flow -ability to open      M   Success dependant on abilities of accounting staffto
and correctly operate all three               make regular reimbursement requests that are
proposed accounts                             correctlyprepared.
c.       Staffing - findingthe `right'     S  Success dependent on qualifications and experience
staff                                         of staffto be hired.
d.       Accounting Policies and           S  Dependant on the Financial and Administrative
Procedures                                    Manual to beprepared.
e.       Reporting and Monitoring         S     Will depend on `robust-ness'of system to be
                                                installed
Overall Control Risk                      S




                                                -51  -

controversy. However, the following issues have been identifiedwith local stakeholders:
1. Local governance: The project's primary focus are conservancies. While these conservancies
are themselves democratic organizations, not all o f the broader community is represented by the
registered membership o f these conservancies; it is not unusual for the non-registered community
membersto outnumber the registered members.This situation may lead to localized disputes even
though the project does cater for participatory approaches that are intended to minimize potential
for such conflicts.
2. Linkages between income-generating activities and sustainable management: At the local level,
conservancies will be trying to fulfill two different but ecosystem based objectives, environmental
and socioeconomic ones. The project design aims to use income-generating activities as a trigger
for conservation and sustainable management o f the ecosystem through in-built linkages between
business plans, feasibility studies for individual sub-projects and conservancy management plans.
The M&Esystemwill track these linkages very carefully.

G. Main Conditions
1. EffectivenessCondition
1. The Recipient has adopted and furnished to the Bank a PIM in form and substance
    satisfactory to the Bank.
2. The Recipient has appointed to the PO, a project coordinator, a procurement officer and an
    accounting officer selected in accordance with Section I1 of Schedule 3 to the grant
    agreement.
3. The Recipient has adopted a monitoring and evaluation manual for the Project in form and
    substance satisfactory to the Bank.
4. The Recipient has established a financial management system for the Project in form and
    substance satisfactory to the Bank.
5. The Recipient has opened the Project Account and has deposited therein the Initial Deposit
    referred to in Section 3.03 o f the grant agreement.
6. The Recipient has appointed the independent auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of the
    grant agreement.

Most o f these conditions are expected to be met prior effectiveness.

Effectivenessplussix months:
1. Procurement training completed.
2. Project MIS system running.
3. Project auditors are appointedaccording to criteria o f the Bank.

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Negotiationconditions:(all conditions have been met on April 14,2004)
1. Counterpart funding for the first three years of implementationallocated inGovernment
    annual budget conditional on parliamentary approval.
2. Draft Project Implementation Manual (PIM) including first year work program; draft
    administrative and financial management procedures and draft CFF manual available and
    satisfactory to the Bank.


                                                 - 52 -

3. Project sites for year 1 identified. Additional project sites will be identified at the time of
    preparation of subsequent the annual work plans and discussed with the World Bank task
    team.
4. Agreement on format for Financial MonitoringReports (FMRs).
5. Preparation of Draft Terms o f Reference for appointment o f Auditors.

H. Readiness for Implementation
[? 1. a) The engineeringdesign documents for the first year's activities are complete andready for the start
         o f project implementation.
El 1.b) Notapplicable.

iXi 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
       project implementation.
El3. The ProjectImplementation Planhasbeenappraisedandfoundto berealistic andofsatisfactory
       quality.
04. Thefollowingitemsarelackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions (SectionG):



I. Compliance with Bank Policies
iXi 1.This project complies with all applicable Bankpolicies.
    2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommendedfor approval. The project complies with
       all other applicable Bank policies.




                         F-                                                        )w,co,
                             %


Christophe Crepin                         Richard G. Scobey                        P mela Cox
Team Leader                               Sector Manager/Director                  Country ManagerlDirector




                                                   - 53 -

                                       Annex 1: Project Design Summary
              NAMIBIA: Integrated Community-Based Ecosystem Management (ICEMA)
                                       KeyIndicators
                                             Performance              Data Collection Strategy
 Hierarchyof Objectives                                                                                Critical Assumptions
iector-related CAS Goal:         Sector Indicators:                  Sector/ country reports:        rom Goal to Bank Mission)
:o contribute to national        The Ministry o f Environmentand vIET reporting                      ountry overall economic and
ustainable development through Tourism's Directorate of                                              olitical stability
he promotion o f the sustainable EnvironmentalAffairs is
ise o f renewable natural        promoting integrated and
esources, the promotion o f      coordinated approaches to
ustainable rural and urban       SustainableDevelopment.
ivelihoods, and the maintenance
ifessentialecologicalprocesses, Policy andlegislative
biodiversity and ecosystems.     framework for environmental
National DevelopmentPlan         managementand sustainable           VDP I1reporting
NDP II)                          use of natural resources is in
                                 place (NDP 11)

                                 Measures to improve the
                                 sustainableuse of natural           Participatory poverty
                                 resourcesare adoptedby              issessments, poverty monitoring
                                 resourceusers (local resource       'eports and livelihood surveys
                                 managementplans,                    ?w
                                 diversification o flivelihood
                                 opportunities) (NDP 11)




2EF Operational Program:         Outcome I Impact
                                 Indicators:
)P 12 Integrated Ecosystem       Increasedlocal and global           Stateo f Environment Report     'olitical and community-based
danagement                       benefits inparticular related to                                    upport at all levels to move from
                                 improvedbiodiversity                Report from National CBNRM      :BWM to CBIEM
                                 conservation and reduced land       Program
                                 degradation on communal lands.




'roject Development              Outcomellmpact Indicators: Project reports:                         from Objective to Goal)
3bjective:

The project development          Around 25,000 hiof communal Project'sM&E system report              iaps incurrent policy, legal and

ibjective is "Community-based    land                                                                inancial CBNRM framework

ntegratedecosystem               underintegratedsustainable                                          vi11be covered throughreform

nanagement practices are         ecosystemmanagementas                                               irocess led by MET,

upportedby the National          definedby the National CBNRM

:BNRM framework and usedby       Program (baseline at present = 0
argetedconservancies."           km' ).

                                 80 YOo f targetedconservancies      Annual external audit o f
                                 committees are effectively          project's m&e system
                                 managingand deploying
                                 efficiently and sustainably their
                                 natural, human, financial and
                                 other resources according to the



                                                                - 54 -

-                                )bjectivesof their conservancy
                                 )lam (baseline at present= 10
                                 6).

                                 vlET as CBNRM lead agency
                                 :stablishedeffective partnerships
                                 vith other agencies and
                                 nstitutions, including local
                                 ;ovemments, NGOsand private
                                 lector to enable achievementsof
I                                )bjective inan efficient and
                                 :ffective manner (baseline at
                                 resent = 0 formalized
                                 )artnetships).
 Global Objective:               htcome I Impact                      Irojectreports:                from Objective to Goal)
                                 ndicators:
 The project global objective is           Populations of targeted
 "to restore, secure and enhance           threatenedfauna and         roject's m&e system report.    'olitical and community-based
 key ecosystemprocessesin                  flora remain at current                                    upport at all levels to move from
 targeted conservancieswith                levels or have increased    roject's supervision reports  :BWM to CBIEM.
 biodiversity and land                     intargeted                  PSR)
 conservationand sustainableuse            conservancies(5 species
 as a goal."                               specified).

                                           Biological monitoring
                                           indicates that the
                                           integrity of the target
                                           sites remains secure
                                           with no significant
                                           change inhabitat.




 Output from each                htput Indicators:                     'roject reports:               from Outputs to Objective)
 Component:
 Component 1. Improved and            90 YOo f Community               'SR                            idequate local community
 better organized sustainableuse      Funding Facility resources                                      :ommitmentto specific
 o f biodiversity and natural         are usedaccording CFF            Iient survey                   :cosystem-based
 resourcesintargeted                  manual criteria.                                                ncome-generating activities.
 conservanciesleading to an
 increasein income-generating         Equitable distribution o f       innual project reports
 activities.                          benefits basedon formalized
                                      mechanismamong 80 % of
                                      targetedcommunal
                                      conservancies.

                                      15 to 20 conservancieshave
                                      built sufficient capacity to
                                      plan, develop and
                                      implement ecosystembased
                                      income generating activities
                                      with decreasing external
                                      support.




                                                                 - 55 -

:omponent2: Improvedcapacity    2 [6 detailedand6 basic]out of      nnualCSDreport                 mg-termbeneficialimpact from
x ecosystemplanning,            5 supportedcommunity-based                                         BIEM can bemadevisible
ianagement& monitoringin        ntegratedmanagementplans                                           ithin limitedprojecttimeframe
irgetedconservancies.           CBIEM)are inplace.                                                 idthus enablingsubsequent
                                                                                                   plication.

                                3aseline dataandTA expertise        IET'snaturalresource
                                equiredto prepare, implement        ionitoringandremote sensing
                                Indmonitor CBIEMplans is            ata
                                irovidedby MET andother
                                takeholders to the ICEMA target
                                ites.
                                                                    .eportsofprojectsupported
                                10% of targetedconservancies        ommunity meetings, education
                                inder this componentare             ndinformationevents
                                mplementingecosystem
                                nanagement activities across        roject SupervisionReports
                                dentifiedthematic areas.

                                50 % of targetedconservancies
                                levelopedskills to design,
                                ip-date andimplementlocal           'reject's localm&e datareports
                                eve1monitoringandreporting.



Zomponent3: A supportive             Parks andWildlife              mnualMET reports               ufficientpoliticalsupport for
iolicy, organization& financial      ManagementBill enacted.                                       itegrationof CBNRMintoothei
rameworkfor CBIEMin                                                                                iinisterialpolicies.
Jamibia.                             Revisionandapprovalof
                                     revisedEnvironment             'roject SupervisionReport
                                     InvestmentFundincluding
                                     availabilityof operational
                                     manual.

                                     Access to Biological
                                     ResourcesandAssociated
                                     TraditionalKnowledgeBill
                                     enacted.

                                     EnvironmentManagement
                                     Bill enacted.

                                     12 targetedconservancies       :SD reports
                                     committees havebeen
                                     institutionalstrengthened.     'SR

                                     MET's CBNRMknowledge           NS andmeetingminutes
                                     managementandreplication
                                     strategy are under
                                     implementation.

                                     MET's CBNFNm&e
                                     system is functional and
                                     links to other environmental
                                     informationsystems.

Zomponent 4:        Strengthened     90 YOo f project activities    Morkplans andprogressreports



                                                               - 56 -

capacity     of    Ministry     oi   identified in annual work
Environment and Tourism, othei       plans havebeen                ITR report
national stakeholders and PO         satisfactorily completed.
staff to manage efficiently project
related activities.
                                                                   m u a l Audits


                                                                   'rojectMIS aligned with
                                                                   ccounting systemand financial
                                                                   rocedures.

                                                                   lank's supervision reports



Project Components I               nputs: (budgetfor each          'roject reports:                From Componentsto
Sub-components:                    :omponent)                                                      hltputs)
Component 1.                                   2.20                                                lubprojects capable to generate
Ecosystem-based                                                                                    neaningful income to local
Income-GeneratingActivities                                                                        ommunities.

Sub-comuonents/Activities:

-Community-Funding                                                 :FF applications and CFF annua
1.1                       Facility             1.44                :view report.
 Small, medium and large size
subproject investments                                             'SR

-Cauacitv
1.2            Building andT A
a) CFFProcedures                               0.16                :FF conservancykit
 Community Funding Facility
proceduresand conservancy kit

T A to review and up-date CFF
operating manual

Dissemination of CFF
information kit to conservancies
                                                                   lix-monthly project progress
b) Businessplanningfor                          0.2                 eports
Conservancies
Basic and detailed strategic
business plans for conservancies
including benefit schemes                                           0 basic and 10 detailedbusiness

(10/10)                                                             mlans


c) Subprojectfacilitation                       0.4
Technical suuuort for sub-project
development including a
mechanism for benefit-sharing.

Feasibility studies including
cost-benefit assessments for
subprojects as well as guidance
basedon marketing and
management study results.

Implementationsuuuort through
sub-project in-built TA for


                                                              - 57 -

.aining and mentoring to
trengthen capacity o f local
takeholders

'ollow-uu suuuort for sub-projecl
ianagement including
ianagement advice, knowledge
ianagement and replication.

:omponent 2. Sustainable                2.08                                      uffcient potential to buildand
kosystem Management                               I                               trengthen local experience for
                                                                                  3me o f the innovative pilot
ub-comuonents/Activities:                                                         ctivities and investments.

.I.CBIEM Planning                                  12 (6 detailed and 6 basic)
{ET'Score support for baseline          0.92       CBIEM plans
ssessment in targeted
onservancies including aerial                      Site selection report
urveys and mapping (ecosystem
tatus, threats and root causes)

)evelopment o fbasic and
etailed CBIEM plans (8/7)
                                                   Activity reports
)esign o f site specific activities
icluding feasibility studies and
ost-effectiveness assessments

 .2. CBIEMimplementation
nvestments for broadbased
itegrated ecosystem                     0.82
ianagement for:                                    PSR
  0   Wildlife restoration
      (breeding camps for                          Annual game counting reports
      keystone species including
      water points, fencing,
      accommodation, equipment)

  0   Wildlife translocation                       GIS remotesensingdata
      (services and infrastructure                 comparison
      investments)
  0   Other management activities                  CSD reports
      (plant biodiversity
      management, land
      degradation restoration and
      rehabilitation) / introductory
      services and investments.

 .3. CBIEMmonitoring &
 valuation
 'articipatory design o f local m&e
 unction including training
 based on locally selected              0.34
 daptive ecosystem management
 idicators)

 )perational support to collect                    Local level reporting (e.g.
 ndup-date baselineinformation                     based on event book)
 ndto implement m&e system at



                                               - 58 -

local level

                                                 PSR



Component3. Targeted                   1.13                                    ufficient integrationof CBNRM
InstitutionalSupport                                                           ito MET's sectoral directorates.

Sub-comuonents/Activities:

3.1. Policy and Organizational
Review and Development                 0.65
                                                 WS minutes
a) CBNRMpolicy dialogue
drafting and dissemination (in
particularforestry, integrated
wildlife, tourism and
environmental impact
assessment)
workshop Support for improved
inter-sectoralCBNRMpolicy
coordinationwith other
ministries                                       Publicationof CBNRMresearch
                                                  issues
b) CBNRMpolicy research
(identifying and fundingof
targetedCBNRM research
issues)                                           Training planand
                                                  implementationprogressreport
e) CBNRM Organizational
Review
Assisting MET to review its
 currentNationalCBNRM
 strategy and institutional set-up.
Develop and implement a
targetedtraining plan for MET
 staffand formalize a CBNRM                       Activity report
 consultative forum.

 d) CBNRMJinancial
 sustainability
 TA to develop sustainable
 financial framework/ Supporting
 the mobilizationofMET's
 Environment InvestmentFund
 with GRN andother sources of                     CSD report
 funding. EIF/ GPTF/ CFF
                                                   Conservancyannual report
 3.2. Direct Conservancy               0.30
 Operational Support
 Equipmentand operational
 supportfor conservancies
 (committees, office). Training
 andWS for conservancy
 management.
                                                 1pSR
 3.3~Knowledge Management              0.18
 a) Training andTA to MET staff                  I Training progressreport


                                              - 59 -

to improvem&e activities andto
adapt centralizedm&e system to
expandingneedsof CBNRM
Program.                                       lctivity reports including
                                               mplementation report on KM
b) Designandimplementationof
aknowledge management
program(including
communication, replication) for
conservancies,central
government and other
stakeholdersbasedon all
National CBNRM Programand
ICEMA project activities
supportedbut inparticular with                 Six-montly project progress
decentralizedM&E activities                    'eports
under component 2.




Component4. Project                1.69                                      ibility to find qualified national
ManagementSupport                                                            lrregionalPO staff.

Sub-comvonentsiActivities:

a) Project Ofjce and
Management                                     innual workplans and
PO Staff                                       iix-monthly project progress
PO Operations                                  'eports
PO Staff Training
METDCEMA Steering                              3ank's Supervision Reports
Committee meetings
                                               innualAudits
b) Review and Reporting
Annual review andreporting
includingexternal audits and
safeguardreporting;                            WS reports
Mid-term review
Final review (ICR)                             Six-monthly projectprogress
                                               'eports




                                          - 60 -

                                      Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
             NAMIBIA IntegratedCommunity-BasedEcosystem Management (ICEMA)
Background:
The project is providingincremental and targeted support to the National CBNRMprogram. The
Namibia's National CBNRM Program i s                            a joint venture between Government and
non-govemment institutions,                communities,        community-based organizations (CBOs)                       and
development partners. (FN. CBOs are defined here as local level institutions for registered
communal conservancies (such as the conservancy committee) and potentially for, if and when
they are established at some future date, registered community forests). The program aims to
provide incentives to communities to manage and use wildlife and other natural resources in
sustainable and productive ways. I t does this by promoting three closely related approaches: (i)
natural resource management and conservation                              - it promotes wise and sustainable
management o f natural resources, and encourages biodiversity conservation by creating the
necessary conditions for sustainable use; (ii)rural development - it seeks to devolve rights and
responsibilities over wildlife and tourism to rural communities, thereby creating opportunities for
enterprise development and income generation; and (iii)empowerment and capacity-building -
it encourages and assists communities and their local institutions to develop the skills and
experience to sustainably develop and pro-actively pilot their own futures. The initial objective of
the program was "to promote pilot activities demonstrating that sustainably managed natural
resources can result in social development and economic growth, and in suitable partnership
between local communities and government''.

This program has its roots inconservationand development efforts back to the early 1980'swhen
the effects of serious drought, heavy poaching, war and tenure systems that dissociated rural
people and the wildlife they lived with, led to the depletion o f wildlife populations on the
state-owned, communal lands. First efforts towards addressing this situation were initiated by
visionary local traditional leaders, officials of the then Department o f Wildlife and local NGOs in
North-West Namibia (the more wildlife rich areas of Kunene (NW) and Caprivi (NE). Following
independence in 1990, the movement gained political support and further momentum. After the
establishment o f the policy framework for conservancies, the donor- and government funded
CBNRM program began to spread slowly to other areas inNamibia. Early devolution o f custodial
rights to commercial farmers on private land was dramatically successful inenhancing investment
inwildlife stocks.

The policy and legal framework grants rights over wildlife and tourism management and uses to
communities on their lands once they are organized as communal "conservancies". (FN. A freehold
conservancy consists in aggregating two or more adjacent private properties in a single wildlife management unit without
abandoning individual ownership o f the land. They are managed and operated by members through a committee. Inmost cases,
intemal fences are removed while the perimeter fence is reinforced, and the classic livestock industry is replaced by
wildlife-related activities. Freehold conservancies have to be registered with the MET. There are currently about 22 freehold
conservancies established. In addition, privately owned nature reserves can play a significant role inbiodiversity protection in
Namibia.. Some are extremely rich in endemic species, unique landscape features or both. All o f these are registered with the
MinistryofEnvironment and Tourism.)
Conservancies are multiple-use zones with legal status, registered with the authorities, where
residents continue farming but collectively manage wildlife in order to benefit both from better
natural resource management practice, and from capturing tourism revenues. A communal


                                                             - 61 -

conservancy consists in setting aside part or all o f the land of a given community with the
intention to conserve and valorise wildlife through its sustainable consumptive and
non-consumptive uses within nature-related activities. Registered conservancies will be given
ownership over huntable game and game birds, beingbushpig, buffalo, oryx, kudu, springbok and
warthog. Applications can be made for permits to use protected and specially protected game. A
conservancy which also registers as a hunting farm will be able to allow trophy hunting on its
land.

  The committees that runconservancies aim to be multifunctional, serving as management
  structures for natural resources utilization and benefit distribution. The requirements for
  registering a conservancy are based on a formal application to the Minister o f
  Environment and Tourism including:
  a.      a list o f names of the people who are members o f the conservancy committee;
  b.      a properly drawn-up constitution o f the committee which outlines the goals and
  objectives o f the conservancy;
  c.      a statement setting out the boundaries o f the conservancy;
  d.      other documents or information as required by the Minister.

  For the conservancy to be accepted, the Ministermust be satisfied that:
  a.      the committee represents the community living inthe area;
  b.      the constitutionprovides for sustainable management and use o f game inthe area;
  c.      the committee is able to manage funds and has amethod for equitable distribution
  to the community;
  d.      the geographic area has beendiscussedwith others inthe area, such as neighbours
  and the Regional Council;
  e.      the area i s not part o f a proclaimed game park.
  Once the MET i s satisfied that all requirements have been met, i t will register the
  conservancv and declare i t in the Government Gazette.


Although the community will have the responsibility and rights over wildlife in the conservancy,
the MET has the legal responsibility for the nation's wildlife and must ensure that it is managed
and used sustainably. The MET will, as far as possible, provide some logistical help in certain
tasks, including advising on the drafting o f a constitution or agreements with the private sector.
Non-governmental organizations operating inan area can also be asked for assistance. Inaddition
to the constitution, conservancies should have a set o f rules which spell out how the conservancy
will operate. Ifthere were no such rules, anyone could go into the conservancy and do whatever
they liked. This would interfere with the aims o fthe conservancy. Conservancies can ask the MET
to advise on developing its rules and wildlife management plan. Not everyone ina communal area
will belongto a conservancy.

The establishment of conservancies is seen as a fundamental step in improving management
capacity and linking it to benefits for communities in communal areas, promoting sustainable
environmental management and rural development. Namibia is leading this kind of enterprise even
though other neighboring countries have embarked in similar ventures (e.g. Zambia, Botswana).
Conservancies are aimed ultimately at ensuring common property management o f all wild natural



                                                - 62 -

resources, but the initial focus has been on wildlife. This is because communities could not use
wildlife before, and because wildlife-based tourism can generate substantially cash income to
communities. Since communities lack the skills and capital to develop tourism, they generally have
to do this by entering at the conservancy level into joint ventures with the private sector. In the
longer term it i s envisaged that conservancies will enable commonproperty management of wood,
grass, reeds, fish, range-land etc. resulting in enhanced output and rents. The conservancies
involve new, group-initiated tourism land uses, superimposed on the traditional ones o f livestock
keeping, subsistence crop production (NE) and wild plant resources harvesting. The changes
associated with the CBNRM program are expected to impact differentlyon households deepening
on factors like income levels, livestock wealth, tourism income, wild resource income, cash
income, conservancy involvement, degree o f common property management, employment,
education.

The community living within the area of a registered communal conservancy does not own the
land or have clear ownership rights to the natural resources. All land in communal areas remains
the property o f the State, and the communities only receive conditional use rights to specified
resources.    Although the legislation provides for the recognition of the boundaries o f a
Conservancy, it does not confer any special status on the land within a Conservancy as some form
of protected area, or as an area with locally defined controls on land use.

As conservancies are not the only resource management entities in a given key ecosystem and
consistent with the integrated approach to natural resources and ecosystem management, ICEMA
will support the inclusion of (future) community forests and woodlands on communal lands.
Support i s expected to be given to promote sustainable use and management of forest ecosystems
in association with other key resources such as wildlife and tourism. Selections of locations for
investment and activities on the ground will respond to this strategic objectives.       MET has
initiated a community forestry programme to manage woodlands on communal land implementing
the Forest Strategic Plan of 1996 and the Forest Policy of 2001. It seeks to involve local
communities in the management and conservation o f forest resources. The Forest Act o f 2001
provides the legal basis for the community forest programme and provides for the granting o f
ownership and tenure o f forest resources to communities. The process o f declaration o f a
community forest involves the devolution o f responsibilities of managing forests and woodlands
to the communities. The Directorate o f Forestry only plays an advisory role to the Communities
are assisted in formulating management plans for the forests, building o f community centers,
electing honorary foresters who control the use o f forest resources and collecting royalties from
the use o f forest resources by outsiders. All these activities are aimed ensuring that the
communities are empowered to manage their woodlands on a sustainable basis. In owning and
managing the resources, the communities will be more aware of the need to protect and conserve
the biodiversity for the long-term economic and other benefits.

Inconclusion, CBNRM inNamibiarepresentsa development strategy inits ownright: a meansto
achieve conservation and improved integrated resource management, providing benefits and
incentives for local community participation. Namibia's CBNRM initiatives respond thereby to
national development and environmental priorities by:
 i.supportingsustainable use and conservationof Namibia's uniqueecosystems andrelated


                                                - 63 -

     biodiversity (the majority o f biodiversity i s found outside the National Park network);
ii.promoting appropriate landmanagement schemesinanenvironment where availabilityof
     water and suitable rangeland as well as land degradation are the key limiting factors to
     sustainable management o f scarce resources;
iii.contributingto reducepovertyinruralareasbyprovidingdiversified livelihood strategies
     through responsibility over local resources, thereby addressing the root causes o f threats to
     unsustainable ecosystemmanagement; and
iv. promoting participatory, accountable and democratic systems of local and regional
     governance.

Criteria for project intervention areas (see also annex 16)
The project will use GEF's catalytic role to support selectedregistered conservancies:
0    with global environmentally important assets;
0    with strong community-driven demand and ownership for the move from a community-based
     wildlife management (present) to an IEM (long-term) approach thereby broadening the
     options for sustainable use o f natural resources;
0    with strong perspective for sustainability (socioeconomic, financial and institutional);
0    where GEF catalytic role leads to additional leverage o f resources addressing root causes and
     other local development needs (partnering with other projects and programs adding value to
     the National CBNRM Program) and where insufficient funds are available but financial
     viability i s expected over time;
0    where contributing to the development o f best practices ;and
0    where scaling-up and replication is facilitated within the National CBNRM Program.

 A process o f categorization o f conservancies in order to enable effective and cost-efficient
 support interventions to each type o f conservancy (fast track, medium track and slow track
 conservancies measuring progress towards financial viability) has already been carried out during
preparation through a tool called "Conservancy Development Guide (CDG)". The CDG, a
 planning and self-assessment tool, developed and tested in a few emerging conservancies during
 project preparation, i s expected to be one o f the entry points for measuring project impacts
 relating to sustainability. The MET and its partners, including conservancies, are inthe process o f
 further reviewing and refiningthis tool and the project will support this process under component
 2 and 3. The tool is potentially meant to be used in and by each target conservancy, and
 subsequent monitoring at local and central level during the course of the project will provide an
 ongoing basis for judging progress towards sustainability. Key aspects o f the impact measurement
 o f the CDG tool and subsequent M&E include aspects of ecological, social, economic and
 institutional sustainability. The project preparationprocess ledto an initial identification of special
 characteristics of conservancies presented in so-called conservancy profiles. Based on these
 assessments and the criteria identified and agreed duringmultiple consultations above, priority for
 the first year has been given to 10 conservancies (see annex 16).

 At present (2003), the three regions include a total of 29 registered conservancies, with 38 000
 registeredmembers but approximately a total of up to 100 0000 rural population and covering
 an area of 74 000 km*.In addition, the regions also includes an approximative 35 prospective
 emerging conservancies. (the map and table in annex 16 shows the location o f the communal


                                                    - 64 -

 conservancies inNamibia, as well as o f the initial 10 target sites o f this project (30 000 h').

 Proiect objectives and design:
 The project development objective is "Community-based integrated ecosystem management
practices are supported by the National CBNRM framework and used by targeted conservancies".



 The project global objective i s "to restore, secure and enhance key ecosystem processes in
targeted conservancies with biodiversity and land conservation and sustainable use as a goal."

Project components:
The project has 4 inter-related components that together serve to meet the project development
and global objectives. Replicability and scalability have been identified as key criteria for
 sub-components and activities. Component 1and 2 are supporting local investments and activities
 and are therefore site-specific. ICEMA priority areas have been identified based on MET'S
 strategic criteria (see annex 16 for site description and maps).

 By Component:

 Project Component 1: Ecosystem-based Income-Generating Activities US$2.20 million
                                                                     -
Description: This component i s concerned with sustainable use o f natural resources and
 ecosystem services through provision o f funds to communities for barrier removal to
 ecosystem-based income-generating activities that provide equitable benefits to conservancies
members.

 The barriers at local level have been identified as lack of grant funding accessible to poor
 emerging conservancies, lack o f capacity, o f knowledge, and o f technical and financial support.
 Broader conducive incentive and policy framework will be addressed under component 3. The
 component will aim to target 15 to 20 registered conservancies who have or are inthe process o f
 having a management plan (demand drivenapproach).

 Overall objective: This component aims to foster ecosystem-based income-generating activities to
 community members from the sustainable use of their rich and diverse ecosystems.

Specific     objectives:   This component        will support     the    demonstration,    development,
 implementation and monitoring of conservancy business frameworks and investments as part of
 their overall conservancy management plans. It specifically aims to
  i.provideresourcesfordirectfinancingofdemand-drivenecosystem-basedincome-generating
     activities,
 ii.increase the viability of activities through tailored business planning, feasibility support,
    training and mentoring;
iii.promotemechanismsforequitablesharingofcostsandbenefits;
iv. develop and disseminate best practices for replication and up-scaling through monitoring and
     evaluation processes; and
 v. contribute to improved participation in development planning processes at local and regional


                                                  - 65 -

    level.

The two closely inter-related sub-components are the :
a) Community-Funding Facility (CFF):
The sub-component focuses on the delivery of small, medium and large size sub-projects to
eligible (see selection criteria in annex 19) registered conservancies (and potentially, if and when
they are established at some future date, registered community-forests). CFF funded activities will
target a diversity of aspects related to wildlife, eco-tourism, forestry, and multi-sector with
emphasis on community ownership. Example activities include the development o f income
generating activities related to game products (tannery, game meat production, trophy hunting),
forestry products (e.g. commercialization o f NTFP and agro-forestry activities such as Marula,
Quiver Tree and the Devil's Claw), value-added processing (craft), and eco-tourism activities such
as community-campsites, community-eco-lodges, eco-tourist guides (see annex 19 for more
details on the CFF). Overall, all o f them will have to demonstrate a long term positive impact on
the management of the ecosystem and the resource base. They will also respond to a specific
positive and negative list of criteria. The CFF will operate as a simple flow-through fund that
permits direct support to the small-, medium- and large-scale conservancy investments identified
ineligible registeredconservanciesoncommunal lands.

Close to project closure, a further review o f the Community FundingFacility operations will be
undertakenunder component 3 to determine appropriate capitalization methods and financing
opportunities for longer-term operation o f the Fund.

b) Cauacitv- BuildingandTechnical Assistance:
This sub-component focuses on supporting the CFF through the following three activities:
 i.disseminatinginformationtoeligiblecommunities,withaviewtoinforming themof theCFF
    andproviding guidance on accessing the CFF.

ii.technicalsupportattheconservancylevelforstrategicbusinessplanningaspartofthe
    conservancy ecosystem management planningprocess, including a mechanism for benefit
    sharing at the conservancy 1evel.At present, only a few conservancies possessa conservancy
    management and an associated business plan. As part of the project's support to the
    development o f integratedcommunity-based ecosystem management (CBIEM) plans (under
    component 2), this sub-component will assist with capacity-building for the strategic business
    planning covering all potential ecosystem-basedentrepreneurial activities ina given
    conservancy. One issue underthe first phase o f the CBNRM Program was the lack of viable
    benefit sharing schemes for conservancy members although as part of the mandatory
    requirements for conservancy registration, conservancies are requiredto present general
    procedures for equitable benefit distribution. However, most conservancies do not yet
    possess benefit sharing plans or mechanisms and therefore revenue distribution may
    sometimes hindered.The sub-component will provide TA to assess various approaches to
    develop generic guidelines for developing, agreeing and adapting benefit schemes for
    conservancies. Inconservancies with Sanpopulation, a particular attention will be paid to
    ensure that San people are included inthe development and implementation o f benefit



                                                 - 66 -

    distribution plans.
iii.facilitation supportforsub-projectdevelopmentwhichwillinclude:
    o    technical support for subproject development. For this purpose, funding i s also made
         available to non-conservancy entities (NGOs,private sector, individual consultants, etc.)
         insuch a support role. The MET/PO mightalsoprovide support through its network of
         CBNRMofficers or through relevant technical directorates ,e.g. for certification of
         conservancy business fiameworks and sub-projects. Feasibility studies will identify and
         assess costs and benefits for new income-generating opportunities as well as to provide
         guidance based on marketing and management study results.
   o     implementation support for subprojects consist of subproject in-built technical assistance
         (TA) for training and mentoring to further strengthen capacity of local stakeholders, and
         to ensure desired quality and standards of subprojects;
   o follow-up support for subproject management including management support and advice,
         knowledge management and replication activities at local andnational level. Lessons
         learnedhave shown the importance o f backstoppingfor income-generating activities at
         local level depending on the scope and nature of the investment. It will monitor as well the
         impact on the improvement inthe management and conservation o f the ecosystems.

Component I bene3ciaries: The primarybeneficiaries of this component are the conservancies in
target registered conservancies.

Project Component 2: Sustainable Ecosystem Management US$2.08 million
                                                        -
Description: This component i s concerned with restoring, securing and enhancing the biodiversity
and ecosystem processes that support sustainable benefits to local communities on communal
lands. The component will adapt its support according to national conservation priorities and the
needs and current status of targeted conservancies. Some conservancies will only require basic
support for the community based integrated ecosystem management planning and prioritization o f
activities, for developing methodological approaches for pilot activities, for designing an
appropriate knowledge management and replication strategy and action plan. Whereas other
conservancies, where there i s a need and which have more capacity to plan and implement their
plan, will benefit from an enhanced and more detailed approach. The project will aim to target 15
registered conservancies (5 for detailed planning, 10 for lighter support) and will cover key
representative ecosystems in the country. The project activities under component 1 and 2 are
expected to be interlinked, but investments through the CFF will be possible in conservancies
which already have a management plan (or in the process o f having one) not funded by this
project.

Overall objective:     The component aims to improve local and national level capacity for
integrated ecosystem planning, management & monitoring intargeted conservancies.

Specific objective: The component provides funds and technical support to:
 i.establish approachesfor CBIEMplanning including inventory andbaseline assessment as
    neededintargeted sites;
ii.restore, maintain and enhance ecosystem services as part of the implementation of the
    management plans as neededintargeted sites;


                                                - 67 -

iii.develop capacity for local monitoring and evaluation functions related to ecosystem
    management (including replication) as neededintargeted sites.

The three inter-relatedsub-components are the :
(a) CBIEM Planning:
The sub-component will support the development o f integrated conservancy management plans in
targeted registered conservancies that will guide resource based management activities. These
plans will focus on all-encompassing land-uses and activity options within a specified area andlink
to the conservancy business framework (supported under component 1) to ensure that maximum
benefits are captured.
Importantly, at the level of a cluster of neighboring conservancies (e.g. in the North-West),
broader innovative landscape approaches will be considered through improved coordination
among conservancies planning and investment processes and between conservancies and National
Parks, inline with the recommendations o f the NBSAP.
Assistance support will be provided for:
 i.Plunninz: Targetedconservancieswillbeassistedwithup-gradingtheir existingthematic
    wildlife utilization plans into CBIEM plans or with drafting new CBIEM plans. A CBIEM
    plan should contain multi-sectoral information including the ecosystem status (e.g. vegetal and
    animal habitat quality and status, livestock and game carrying capacity, wildlife corridors),
    potential and planned resource uses, and existing and planned infrastructuredevelopments (e.g
    water points, accommodation, roads, fencing, tourism enterprises). Targeted training o f
    conservancies to improve the local level planning process with involvement o f MET,
    conservancies and NGOs will include the organization o f participatory stakeholder workshops
    and meetings. Ifproject target sites include San populations, their participation inthe planning
    process will be enabled through culturally appropriate means. Depending on the level o f
    existing land-use planning information (e.g. zonation, inventory, mapping) and on the
    indication o f key biodiversity issues (e.g. existence of red list species within a given
    conservancy) as well as on the results of a rapid survey o f economically valuable species o f
    plants and wildlife resources, the need for a detailed baseline assessment o f the ecosystem
    status, its threats and roots causes will be defined. Support will be provided to develop special
    expertise for planning and implementing ecosystem inventories as well as baseline assessments
    carried out under the leadership o f MET's Directorate o f Scientific Services. Aerial surveys as
    well as remote sensing GIs satellite resources will be used to cover the areas of target sites.
    The sub-component will provide TA for training and equipment to increase MET's capacity to
    conduct these aerial surveys and undertake GIS analysis. Some work will also be outsourced
    under this activity. All baseline information collected will be stored in MET's new central
    CBNRM database (supported under component 3).
ii.Design: Atpresent,limitedexperiencesexistwiththebroadrangeof thematic optionsfor
    sustainable management o f ecosystems such as wildlife and plant restoration,            wildlife
    relocation, and sustainable land management. Therefore, the sub-component will assist with
    the designing o f replicable approaches for specific priority activities based on feasibility
    studies    including    cost-effectiveness   assessment   (e.g.    for  translocation   schemes,
    commercialization o f game and wild plants and infrastructure needs); scientific and technical
    reviews, on guidelines for criteria development for site selection for prioritized implementation
    activities; and on generic guidelines for addressing safeguard policies. The lessons learned will


                                                 - 68 -

    feed back into the local and central level m&e system as well as inthe knowledge management
    and replication strategy and action plan.

/b) CBIEM Implementation:
This sub-component focus on the implementation of key prioritized activities for ecosystem
restoration, maintenance and recovery as outlined inthe CBIEM plan. Supported activities will be
site-specific.
Contribution to ecosystem restoration includes, for example, the restocking o f conservancies with
wildlife (including rare, and highvalue species) with the aim of improving the conservation status
o f such rare species, while also providing benefits to communities from these high-value species.
Other examples are: (i)   game capture and translocation o f common as well as o f more valuable
species; (ii) direct conservation o f threatened species such as the black rhino through provision of
adequate scientific and technical support; (iii)   breeding camps for high value added, keystone
species (such as black-faced impala, roan antelope, sable antelope); (iv) restoration and
sustainable management of the biomass (wild plant cultivation and nurseries o f key species such as
Marula, Quiver Trees); (v) improvement o f occurring land degradation through sustainable land
management actions including erosion control measures and improved grazing techniques.

The sub-component provides further technical assistance for supervision during implementation
including further meetings and workshops with all stakeholders, including San populations if
living inproject target sites, involved to assess and review the design of the management plans as
necessary.

IC) MonitoringandEvaluation:
    CBIEM
This sub-component focus on
 i.designinganadaptive andcomprehensive CBIEMm&e methodology (socioeconomic and
    environmental) for local level users and uses;
ii.implementingm&ethroughsupportfordatacollection(tracker; aerialsurveys, GIS);
iii.providingtrainingforcentralandlocallevelstakeholdersonm&edevelopmentanduse.

At local level, the sub-component deals with the establishment o f a simple or detailed (as needed)
mechanism to monitor the impact o f the activities supported under component 1 and 2
(socioeconomic and environmental interventions). As conservancies are areas o f production,
drawing on a diverse set o f resources in ways that will return optimal sustained benefits within
productive ecosystems, monitoring must be specifically relevant to conservancies objectives.
Therefore, the conservancy members will be trained to select adaptive ecosystem management
indicators, to collect, analyze and up-date their own baseline information on a regular basis and to
develop and use a simple local m&e function. The piloting of the so-called "Conservancy
Development Guide", developed during project preparation, has provided lessons for refiningthis
and other participatory self-assessment tools. Inaddition, few conservancies have been sensitized
to the needs and benefits related to m&e. They employ trained community members as
"community game guards" or "environmental shepherds" which use currently a simple m&e
methodology based on an "event-book". The sub-component will provide technical support to
review and adapt these local monitoring practices and tools as needed. In addition, support for
conservancies with San community members will be provided to implement the IPDP monitoring


                                                 - 69 -

activities.

 Component 2 beneficiaries: The primary beneficiaries o f this component are the conservancies in
target conservancies and the MET Directorates that are involved inplanning and implementation
o f the specific interventions that support the CBIEM plans.

Project Component3: Targeted InstitutionalSupport US$ 1.13 million
                                                    -
Description/Overall objective: The component aims to improve the MET's strategic planning,
implementation, monitoring and replication capacity to promote, develop and implement the
National CBNRM Program and policies in Namibia over the longer term. It will also provide
institutional and operational support to selected conservancies.

Specific objectives: The component i s focusing on
 i.strengtheningMET'sorganizationalframeworkforCBNRM;
 ii.providingtargeted training for MET'sstaffto support its leadingrole relatedto National
     CBNRMProgram inplace;
iii.reinforcingthe METto engageother sectoralministriesinthe active support for CBNRM
     policies and the CBNRM Program implementation;
iv. facilitating the establishment of a sustainable financing framework for CBNRM;
 v. providing direct institutional (training) and operational support (small equipment) to targeted
     conservancies; and,
vi. developing and implementing a CBNRM knowledge management and communication strategy
     and action plan.

 The three sub-components are:
la) Policy and Organizational Review and Development:
 This sub-component includes the following closely interlinked issues:
 1.  CBNRM policy dialogue (reviewing and enabling the priority legal framework; workshop
     support for improved inter-sectoralCBNRM policy coordination with other ministries);
 11. CBNRMpolicy research ( identifying and funding o f targeted CBNRM research issues to be
...  undertaken or guided by a technical and scientific roster o f experts);
111. CBNRM organizational review (assisting MET to review its current National CBNRM
     strategy and institutional set-up with the aim to identify and implement a targeted training plan
     for MET's centralized and decentralized staff; further providing support to MET to formalize
     a CBNRM consultative forum to discuss policies issues, progress within the National
     CBNRM Programand associated activities and to share experiences);
iv. CBNRM financial sustainability (supporting the development o f a sustainable financial
     framework including options to integrate the protocols used under the CFF under the
     Environment Investment Fund (EIF), assessments o f the further use o f the Game Product
     Trust Fund (GPTF), mainstreaming further funding for CBNRM into Government's budget,
     and development o f a CBNRM cost-reduction strategy).

 (b) Direct conservancy operational support (providing financial support for equipment and
 running costs as well as limited training and workshop budget for conservancy management
 needs).



                                                  - 70 -

IC) Management:
   Knowledge
The sub-component provides institutional support for
    Training and technical assistance to METstaff to improve relatively limited and insufficiently
    connected CBNRM monitoring and evaluation activities and to further develop, adapt and
    harmonize its central scientific m&e elements including GIS data to the expanding needs o f
    the CBNRM Program.
    Designing and implementing o f a CBNRM knowledge management program (including a
    multimedia communication strategy and action plan outlining the communication tools,
    recipients and timeframe o f actions; a CBNRM replication plan) for conservancies, central
    government and other stakeholders based on all National CBNRM Program and ICEMA
    project activities and achievements and lessons learned.

Component 3 benejciaries: The primary beneficiary o f this component i s MET through its lead
Directorates. Other GRN Ministries (especially MAWRD, MLRR, MLRGH ) will also be
beneficiaries to the extent that they are engaged by MET during the planning processes through
workshops and training.

Project Component4: Project ManagementSupport US$1.69 million
                                                 -
Description/overall objective: The component aims to provide MET with the additional increased
operational ability to manage and supervise ICEMA activities. The Project Office will be located
inMET andattached to the office ofthe Permanent Secretary.

Specific objective: The components focus on delivering the necessary support (technical, financial
and coordination) for the project stakeholders, in particular the Ministry o f Environment and
Tourism, to achieve the project's respective objectives and deliverables. French ICEMA
co-funding to this component will strengthen the Project Office expertise, implementation and
delivery capacity by adding 4 (2 national and 2 international) technical experts (plant and wildlife
specialists) to the PO staff.

The two sub-components are:
(i) OfficeandManagement:Thesub-componentprovidesthenecessaryinfrastructureand
   Project
training for the Project Office staff (43 positions: a Project Office Coordinator, a Procurement
Officer, an Accounting Officer, a part-time Monitoring and Evaluation specialist and an
Administrative Assistant). The PO provides technical support for all day to day activities o f
project implementation. This includes coordination o f all project planning (work plans, etc.), and
execution o f all procurement and financial management and project reporting. The PO will also
coordinate project performance monitoring supported by the M&E Specialist. The M&E
Specialist will be available to all MET directorates to assist in implementation o f M&E activities
as outlined inthe project's m&e manual. A project management information system (MIS) will be
developed and housed centrally within MET to provide the basis for performance monitoring as
well as contributing to the monitoring activities o f the National CBNRM program with a focus on
the ICEMA project sites. The Project Office will be directly responsible also for accepting,
reviewing, and awarding sub-project proposals under the CFF; and providing oversight of the
sub-project funds awarded to individual conservancies.

[ii)ReviewandReporting. Semi-annual report; full-annualreport; annualexternalreview and

                                                - 71 -

reporting (including external audit and safeguards reporting), Mid-term Review, and Final Review
(ICR) according to the project implementationmanual.

Component 4 beneficiaries: The primary beneficiary of this component i s MET and its newly
constituted Project Office.




                                              - 72 -

                                            Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
          NAMIBIA Integrated Community-Based Ecosystem Management (ICEMA)

                                                                                                                                                 Total
                         ProjectCost By Com                                                                                                 US $million
I.Ecosystem-BasedIncomeGeneratingActivities                                                         0.79        1          1.65                     2.44
11. SustainableEcosystemManagement                                                                  1.67                   0.45                     2.12
111.TargetedInstitutional Support                                                                   1.11                   0.05                     1.16
IV.ProjectManagement Support                                                                        1.51                   0.24                     1.75
National CBNRMProgram                                                                               3.64                   0.00                     3.64
Total Baseline Cost                                                                                 8.72                   2.39                   11.11
 PhysicalContingencies                                                                              0.44                   0.05                     0.49
 Price Contingencies                                                                                1.81                   0.03                     1.84
                                          Total Project Costs'
                                   Total Financing Required                                        10.97                   2.47                   13.44

                                                                                                                       Foreign                    Total
                                                                                                                     US $million            US $million
Goods                                                                                                 0.21                      0.20                    0.41
Works                                                                                                 0.16                      0.16                    0.32
Services                                                                                              2.13                      0.16                    2.29
Training                                                                                              0.70                      0.01                    0.71
Sub-projects                                                                                          0.00                      1.65                    1.65
Vehicles                                                                                               0.00                     0.20                    0.20
Operationalcosts                                                                                       5.53                     0.02                    5.55
PhysicalContingencies                                                                                  0.44                     0.05                    0.49
Price Contingencies                                                                                    1.81                                             1.84
                                                           Total Project Cost;                       10.98                      2.48                   13.46
                                                Total Financing Required                             10.98                      2.48                   13.46

   1
    Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m)and the total project cost, net oftaxes, is 32.43 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharingratio is 21.89% of
   total project cost net of taxes.




                                                                      - 73 -

                              Annex 4: IncrementalCost Analysis
        NAMIBIA: IntegratedCommunity-Based Ecosystem Management (ICEMA)

Context and Broad Development Goals

1.Context. Namibia's ecosystemsprovide essential life sustaining services (food, fiber, medicine,
tourism opportunities, shelter, etc.) and vital genetic material (required to enhance domestic crop
and livestock species). Direct and indirect use (crop cultivation, woodlands, drylands, wetlands
and marine fisheries; non-consumptive tourism and trophy hunting) of Namibia's biodiversity
contributes to over 40 % o f the GDP. The most important wild products include: meat, thatching
grass, medicinal products and veld foods (from nuts, fruits, leaves; roots and bark), firewood,
wood for construction and woodcarving. Wildlife harvesting represents the base o f subsistence
economies in rural areas (an estimate of 33 % total household consumption inrural areas comes
from wild foods). These livelihood options depend greatly on the ecosystem characteristics. The
greater part of Namibia consists o f arid and semi-arid rangelands with little to no permanent
surface water. These areas, while being less diverse, support the typical megafauna of Africa such
as wildebeest, buffalo, giraffe, zebra, oryx, kudu, eland, hartebeest, springbok, etc. and their
associated large predators, including lion, cheetah and hyena. Other areas have particularly high
proportions o f endemic species, endemic to both the southern African subregion and to Namibia.
The southern African endemics are part of a "south-west arid zone," which encompasses the
Kalahari ecosystem. Nowadays, Namibia's arid savanna systems and dry woodland areas have
reverted to savanna-type systems as a result o f land degradation processes and extensive
deforestation. The results o f increasing bush encroachment, soil erosion and soil salination are
causes o f economic loss and escalating poverty through declining agricultural production and a
loss o f food security. Namibia's northern areas contain highly diverse ecosystems, particularly at
the interface of wetlands, riparian belts and dry woodlands. They support important populations
o f globally threatened species, including desert elephant, wild dog, wattled crane and slaty egret.
Those areas that have the highest human population and livestock densities and that have been
subject to extensive land clearing are those that have suffered the highest losses inbiodiversity.

2. While 14% o f Namibia has been set aside as state-controlled parks and reserves, the protected
area network i s heavily skewed towards the Namib biome, leaving savannas, woodlands and
Karoo biome badly under-represented (only 4 o f 13 vegetation types are comprehensively
protected). Further, entire vegetation types are wholly unprotected and face imminent threat o f
degradation from the growing needs o f Namibia's human population. Most o f the valuable forests
are found in the north o f the country and are situated on communal land. Forests constitute an
important resource for rural communities because o f their wood products, habitat and potential
role in providing locations for community-based tourism. Overexploitation of forests and
uncontrolled cutting o f trees for various purposes in the North i s prevalent and woodland i s
cleared for shifting cultivation. State regulation o f wildlife and forest products i s extremely
difficult to enforce due to large distances from administrative centers and lack o f government
resources.

3. The three main landhesource use activities that impact the sustainable management and use
options for the key Namibian ecosystems are: (i)    livestock keeping, (ii) natural resource use,
                                                                            wild


                                                 - 74 -

and (iii) community tourism activities. Attendant with highpopulation growth rates (insome areas
as high as 3.2%/yr) are escalating land demands for settlement, subsistence agriculture and
livestock grazing, limitedmainly by lack o f water. Furthermore, fragmented governmental policies
promote in many cases human settlement, subsistence agriculture, and livestock production in
unsuitable and highly marginalized arid and semi-arid regions o f the country. However, ecosystem
degradation affects the poor rural communities most of all because they depend highly or solely
on ecosystem services for sustaining their livelihoods. Without an integrated ecosystem
management planning framework, human settlers and livestock may compete with wildlife for
sparse sources o f water and grazing inhighly fragile ecosystems that could most appropriately be
managed and sustainably utilized as for example wildlands for Namibia's rapidly growing high
value ecotourism market.

4. Proiect Scope. The national CBNRM/Conservancy program responds to national development
and environmentalpriorities by:
  i.supporting sustainable use and conservation of Namibia's unique ecosystems and related
    biodiversity (the majority o fbiodiversity i s found outside the National Park network);
 ii.promotingappropriate landmanagement schemes inanenvironment where availability of
    water and suitable rangeland as well as land degradation are the key limiting factors to
     sustainable management o f scarce resources;
iii.contributingto reducepoverty inruralareas byprovidingdiversified livelihood strategies
    through responsibility over local resources, thereby addressing the root causes o f threats to
    unsustainable ecosystem management; and
iv. promoting participatory, accountable and democratic systems o f local and regional
     governance.

 5. The Integrated Community-Based Ecosystem Management (ICEMA) Project builds an
 important block of the environmental dialogue between GRN, in particular the Ministry of
 Environment and Tourism (MET), and the World Bank (WB). The project concept builds on the
 principles and the objectives laid by the National CBNRM vision process, which was discussed
 with a broad range o f stakeholders including the MET in 2000. Funds to support project
 preparation were provided with the signature o f the PDF B grant in June 2001. A project concept
 document was prepared and approved by World Bank Management in January 2002 while a
 Project Brief was submitted, at the request of the Government o f Namibia, to the GEF Council in
 February 2002. It was designed to support targeted activities within the larger framework o f the
 national CBNRMinitiative.

 6. The major focus o f the project i s on selected conservancies and community based
 organizations, and on the institutions that manage, use and influence the status o f ecosystem
 management inNamibia. The project has the following characteristics:

 a. Political and administrative boundaries. The project component falls within the recognized
     international boundaries of Namibia. The potential target area o f influence covers some 29
     existing registered conservancies, representing 74,000 km2 o f land at (late 2003), with a
     registered membership o f 38,000 people.
 b. Institutions. The project institutional focus involves developing capacity in MET, which is


                                                  - 75 -

   tasked with managing the conservancy network, and with local level Community-Based
    Organizations as primary stakeholders in IntegratedEcosystem Management. It i s anticipated
   that the project will result in a considerably strengthened institutional and human resource
    capacity, awareness and information base from which these agents are able to manage the
    conservancies sustainably. As such, it i s intended that project activities will result inincreased
    capacity and awareness on biodiversity conservation and management issues in these sectors
    and institutions, and improve the environmental sustainability o f their activities.
c. Threats and root causes. (See Annex 14) The project is focused on removing barriers and
    overcoming threats to terrestrial biodiversity within priority conservancies, relating to
    insufficient capacity, knowledge, and awareness for management planning; and to high local
    community dependence on but low involvement in their management. One main set of root
    causes relating to biodiversity loss and land degradation - those relating to sociopolitical
    context (for example limited support infrastructure and impending poverty related health
    threats such as AIDS), lie outside the system boundary o f this project, because they do not
    relate to its primary institutions and target beneficiaries.


7. The Role o f CBNRM in Namibia's Development. Namibia i s one o f very few countries inthe
world that enshrines the concept o f environmental protection in its Constitution. Article 95(1) of
the Constitution states: "The State shall actively promote and maintain the welfare o f the people
by adopting policies aimed at the following: Maintenance o f ecosystems, essential ecological
processes and biological diversity o f Namibia and utilization o f living natural resources on a
sustainable basis for the benefit o f all Namibians, both present and future." The National
Community-based Natural Resource Management Program (CBNRM) is coordinated by MET
and its mission is to "provide and coordinate information and technical support communities and
stakeholders for sustainable natural resource management and utilization to improve the
livelihoods of all Namibians and to conserve biodiversity." MET in accordance with the
constitution has adopted, implemented and will continue to develop policies to enhance and
protect Namibia's fragile environment while producing economic benefits for Namibians in the
present and the future. The Ministry sees the National CBNRM program as an important
mechanism for implementing goals and policies to fulfill the constitutional obligation of utilizing
natural resources for the benefit of all Namibians including those living in rural communities and
who were previously disadvantaged.

8. Recognizingthe present narrow focus of CBNRM on Conservancies, MET as a matter o f policy
supports the broadening of the scope o f the CBNRM Program away from its initial emphasis on
conservancies and wildlife tourism to include all relevant aspects o f community-based resource
management, including water, medicinal plants, agriculture and rural livelihood development and
small scale mining among others. To this end efforts are being made to integrate other
government ministries and agencies into the management and coordination of the National
Program.

9. MET and its partner organizations recognized that the government's budgetary resources are
limitedand are being sought after by a large and varied constituency. These agencies concluded
that the financing o f environment and natural resources activities cannot.be met solely from the


                                                  - 76 -

public coffers. The National Development Policy I(NDP I) identifiedthe need for new and
                                                                 thus
innovative financing outside o f government control and specifically made provisions for the
establishment o f an Environmental InvestmentFund to secure long-term financial support for the
activities and programs designed to protect Namibia's fragile environment while contributing to
its economic development.

10. The national CBNRM Program, has gained credibility within Namibia and is                  widely
recognized and supported in NDP I1principles (2001). The NDP I1 i s considered as the first
five-year development program o f Namibia's vision 2030 document. The document presents inten
o f its 48 chapters CBNRM development approaches andor conservancies as cross-cutting
strategies to further sustainable natural resource management, rural development, and poverty
alleviation and equity. In particular, CBNRM and conservancies are seen as vehicles for
achievement o f the NDP I1 development goal N o 2 and its respective objectives: "Promote
environmental and ecological sustainability" with three objectives: (i)Policy and legislative
framework for sound environmental management and sustainable use of natural resources inplace
by 2005; (ii)   Institutional arrangements for promoting integrated and coordinated approaches to
sustainable development operational by 2005; and (iii)       Programs on biodiversity, pollution and
waste management and urban environment operational by 2005. Further, MET participated inthe
development o f the Rural Profile Strategic Framework (Ministry o f Agriculture, Water and Rural
Development) to raise CBNRM as an opportunity to promote rural livelihoods and the potential
o f non-timber forest products for rural micro-enterprises. MET'S contributions to rural
development relate to the first two pillars of the RPSF (Employment and income opportunities
created; Improved access to resources ina sustainable manner).

11. In summary, macroeconomic and sustainable development goals in Namibia support and are
broadly consistent with the project's goal - biodiversity o f international importance i s conserved
at sites o f highestpriority through sustainable financing o f the conservancy network.

Baseline Scenario

 12. General Scope. Inthe absence o f GEF assistance, it is expected that GRN would nonetheless
pursue its CBNRM program to meet domestic development objectives. Some o f this would be
proceeding with other donor support and some would be undertaken through its own limited
financial resources. These efforts are beings supported by a number o f initiatives. MET itself has
requested in excess of NA$50 million from Government for CBNRM budget support in its
three-year rolling budget. The FinnishEmbassy has pledged further assistance o f US$2 million to
forestry related programs, one-half o f which is during this project's lifetime. USAID has pledged
substantial assistance through a "Life-Plus"        initiative that represents a continuation o f its
successful long-term support o f its NGO-delivered LIFEprogram targeted to sustainable wildlife
management. The EU i s pursuing targeted support to selected tourism development activities,
notably with committed investments to community based lodges starting in 2004 through its
Namibian Tourism Development Program. In addition, the EU i s providing support for CBNRM
Program through its forthcoming program to implement the Rural Development Framework
under its "demand-driven services" window. German assistance through KfW i s also targeting the
forestry sector.


                                                  - 77 -

13. Costs. Over the five year project period, the total expenditures associated with the Baseline
Scenario are estimated to be US$21.80 million. These are noted in Table A4.1 and can be
described as follows:
   On-the-Ground Support - Ecosystem related income-generating activities (US$ 8.25 million)
   This support provides selected investments in community-based enterprise development; the
   focus i s on expanding livelihood options within conservancy management plans consistent
   with the Government's CBNRM program.
   On-the-Ground Support - Sustainable Ecosvstem Management. (US$ 7.30 million) This
   provides limited (spatially and technically) on-going investments in community-based wildlife
   management efforts in high priority conservancy areas with high biodiversity potential; the
   focus is currently on reintroducing critical wildlife species within conservancy management
   plans consistent with the Government's CBNRM program.
   Targeted Institutional Support. (US$ 6.25) This limited baseline activity provides for minimal
   development o f financial and policy mechanisms, including the Forestry Act that permits
   community forest designation, and the Environmental Investment Fund that i s intended to
    support environmental management efforts in Namibia as well as for promotion of new
   conservancy registrations and support for core activities inthe conservancy network.

14. Benefits. The benefits under the Baseline Scenario focus on the basic maintenance o f the
conservancy areas and selected ecological services, including some sustainable use to local
populations. This i s a consequence o f defining and attempting to expand the area under registered
designation, and of delivering specific packages o f livelihood enhancement to all conservancies. In
addition, the Baseline confers modest global benefits through permitting the identification of core
areas o f biodiversity significance, and providingpartial protection to forests that act as a potential
carbon store.

Global Environmental Objective

15. Namibia has ratified the Biodiversity Convention, the Convention on Migratory Species, the
Climate Change Convention and the Desertification Convention. A National Biodiversity Strategy
and Action Plan have been validated; the proposedproject i s part o f the Government o f Namibia's
efforts to implement this strategy and action plan and to address national and global
environmentalpriorities.

The project development objective i s "Community-based integrated ecosystem management
practices are supported by the National CBNRM framework and used by targeted conservancies".


The project global objective is "to restore, secure and enhance key ecosystem processes in
targeted conservancies with biodiversity and landconservation and sustainable use as a goal."

16. The activities proposed under this project are fully consistent with the priorities o f the GEF
operational programs for integrated ecosystem management (OP 12) as well as for arid and
semiarid ecosystems (OP 1). The recognition and conservation o f ecosystem structures and
functioning to maintain, increase and diversify ecological services incommunal conservancies, are


                                                - 78 -

priority long-term targets o f the integrated management approach at appropriate spatial and
temporal scales promoted by MET as well as other stakeholder. The integrated ecosystem
management approach represents a strategy that promotes conservation and sustainable use of
natural resources in an equitable way and aims to reach a balance o f the Convention on
Biodiversity interlinked objectives: conservation; sustainable use; and the fair and equitable
sharing of the benefits arising out of the utilization ofnatural resources.

17. Specifically, the project is compatible with OP 12 opportunities to achieve multiple focal area
benefits because it would focus on: (i)   Attacking root causes o f interlinked threats to biodiversity,
land degradation, vulnerability and adaptation to climate change; (ii)      Integrating activities that
address local level issues, alternative livelihood systems and their global benefits; (iii) Facilitating
cross-sectoral institutional strengthening and development o f strategic frameworks for IEM for
multiple local and global benefits; (iv) Supporting policy and regulatory reforms of relevance for
IEM; (v) Incorporating flexible monitoring and evaluation systems to track and help understand
long-term ecosystem indices and their linkages to on the ground management; (vi) Entrenching
participatory capacity building and technical assistance for targeted local communities for
enhanced management of critical species, habitats, and ecosystems and service providers such as
the MET and its decentralized structures and NACSO members; (vii)                 Sharing experiences
(traditional and modem knowledge) and dissemination of best practices for replication and policy
recommendations; and, (viii) Supporting inclusion o f indigenous innovative livestock and crop
management approaches incommunity resource plans.


capacity-building strategic priorities as outlined in its Strategic Business Plan FY04 - FY06. In
18. Further, the project responds to GEF's cross-cutting and biodiversity as well as

line with biodiversity SP 2, biodiversity conservation will be enhanced and mainstreamed into the
various production landscapes (mainly wildlife, agriculture, fisheries, forestry, tourism) which are
present throughout Namibia. ICEMA's approach i s based on lessons learnedo f the country's pilot
CBNRM activities. Its additionality i s basedon the development and implementation o f a new and
more strategic and integrated approach to CBNRM and on the adaptive capacity development
plan for     its main stakeholders.        Innovative elements       include the setting-up o f a
community-development            fund       facility     for      sustainable       use       activities;
community-government-private sector partnerships for conservation and socioeconomic benefits
for rural communities and integration o f integrated ecosystem management into national sector
policies and legislation as well as in local resource use plans. Targeted capacity-building and
institutional support will be essential for sustainability and replication. A detailed monitoring and
evaluation system and knowledge management plan will allow to generate and disseminate further
lessons learned and good practices for integrated ecosystem management throughout the project
lifetime and beyond (biodiversity SP 4). Also, the project aims to develop and test a model for OP
12 monitoring and evaluation systems with selected communities and service providers.

GEFAlternative

19. Scope. The project scope of the GEF Alternative includes potentially 29 registered
conservancies along with any additional conservancies that may be registered during the project
life (the estimated total potential registration i s 60-80 conservancies). The major thrust o f the


                                                  - 79 -

incremental activities is to provide targeted implementation support that will improve biodiversity
and integrate land-use management within selectedhighpriority conservancies that are of national
and global importance. A key delivery mechanism to target local communities will be a
Community Funding Facility that will deliver direct support to community beneficiaries in
conservancies.

20. Costs. The total expenditures associated with the GEF Alternative are estimated to be about
US$32.43 million; these are summarized inTable A4.1.
Inaddition, the programwould involve expanded andnew activities as follows:
    On-the-Ground Support - Ecosystem related income generating activities (US$ 10.83 million)
    This expanded activity involves targeted barrier removal through focusing on the use of
    community-delivered micro-projects via a Community Funding Facility. The funds will be
    managed locally with central government oversight. In addition, technical assistance is
    provided to improve diversification o f benefits within an integrated framework; this relies on
    development o f Community Based Integrated Ecosystem Management (CBIEM) plans, and
    the elaborationo f benefit-sharingagreements that provide enhancedprotection o f the resource
    base through promoting meaningful diversification of opportunities within the local landscape.
    On-the-Ground Support - Sustainable Ecosystem Management. (US$ 11.26 million) This
    provides expanded investments in community-based wildlife management efforts in high
    priority conservancy areas with high biodiversity potential; focus i s on reintroducing critical
    threatened wildlife species within conservancy management plans consistent with the
    Government's CBNRM program. Inaddition, the program supports decentralizedM&E.
    TarPeted Institutional Support. (US$ 7.64 million) This significantly expanded component
    provides comprehensive support to MET'Sfinancial, organizational, and legal frameworks to
    implement IEMprocesseswithin its current CBNRM program.
    Project Management Support. (US$2.70 million) This additionalsupport will include project
    management support for all ICEMA programs and will be enhanced through inclusion o f
    technical and scientific advisory roster on an as-needed basis. Donor reporting needs,
    including those associated with environmental and social safeguards, will also be catered for
    under this support. French ICEMA co-funding to this component will strengthen the Project
    Office expertise, implementation and delivery capacity by adding 4 technical experts (2
    national and 2 international) to the PO staff.

21. BeneJits. The GEF Alternative incorporates the benefits of the Baseline Scenario, and will
enable further beneficial outcomes beyond those already specified. In addition to the Baseline
benefits, incremental benefits to the global community include the ability to conserve and sustain
globally significant and representative biodiversity and landscapes using IEMprocedures, despite
competing economic pressures on the resource base. GEF assistance will enable Namibia to
protect and to utilize sustainably the country's biodiversity in these areas beyond a nationally
justified and affordable level. Global benefits will include enhanced monitoring and information
exchange through improved record-keeping, and effective capacity to preserve endangered
species and habitats.

22. The GEF Alternative also provides institutional benefits that remove a number o f the domestic
barriers to long term biodiversity conservation and sustainable land management in these


                                                - 80 -

ecosystems. These institutional benefits include the following:
a  Strengthened institutional and technical capacity and awareness for effective management.
   Basic information on biodiversity and land resources on which to base management planning
   i s often currently lacking due to the lack of capacity and resources for collecting and using
   such infomation. The project will enhance knowledge, technical skills and tools for planning,
   particularly in globally important areas. Management-relevant information and capacity to use
   it will improve, such as improved capacity to identify ecosystem values and factors that
   threaten globally endangered ecosystems, improved capacity for operational management
   planning, and improved knowledge and capacity to implement relevant management activities.
   These barriers will be removed through joint M&E systems that involve both local and
   national partners.
a Development of replicable models of effective management linked to local and national
   capacity and policy strengthening. Under the Baseline, "on-the-ground" field testing of
   management approaches and policies and linking this with refinementof policies and practices
   at a national level is unlikely to occur. Under the GEF Alternative, by contrast, the activities
   will demonstrate how mechanisms for better institutional collaboration can result in better
   conservation, while not compromising local community and national benefits. These activities
   will contribute to sustainable livelihoods rather than relying simply on traditional rural
   development type activities that have few linkages to biodiversity conservation and land-use
   management. Within this project, the removal o f this barrier will be largely connected to the
   substantial M&Eand Knowledge Management efforts.
a Development of sustainable financing mechanisms for community ecosystem management.
   The framework provides a number o f mechanisms to do this. First, the sub-projects under the
   Community FundingFacility will provide a practical mechanism for demonstrating how small
   community-based enterprise development can be nurturedthrough conservancies with donor
   assistance. Second, assistance for rationalizing the broader funding mechanisms (such as the
   EIF and Game Products Trust Fund) will pave the way for using existing mechanisms to
   achieve sustainable financing o f on-the-ground activities.

IncrementalCosts

23. The total expenditure under the Baseline Scenario is estimated to be US$21.80 million while
the total expenditure under the GEF Alternative i s estimated to be US$32.43 million. The
incremental expenditures (costs) under the GEF Alternative are therefore approximately US$
10.63 million.

24. O f the incremental expenditures (costs) o f US$ 10.63 million, the GEF i s requested to fund
US$7.1 million; the balance will be funded by the French GEF and by the Government of
Namibia.




                                               -81  -

                                                         Table A41
                         Namibia Integrated Community-BasedEcosystem Management (ICEMA) Project
                                         Incremental Cost Determination (US $ million)

 GEFComponent               Category        cost          Domestic Benefit                              GlobalBenefit

                            Baseline        US$I5.55      Basic maintenanceo f conservancynetwork,      Identificationo fcore areas o fbiodiversity
 Support -Broad-based                                      includingsome sustainableuse to local        significance. Partialprotectiono fcarbon
 Core Activities                                          populations that is inbroad national          stores.
                                                           interest. Focus on capturing new forestry
                                                           values, expansion o fwildlife value capture,
                                                           and new core investments inselected
                                                           tourism infrastructure.
                            With GEF        US$22.09       As above.                                    As above.
                            Altemative

                            Incremental     US06.54
 Ib.On-the-Ground           Baseline        US$8.25        Financialbenefits generatedin                Reducedpoachingof wildlife species of
 Support-Targeted                                          conservancieswith high tourism and trophy    global significance.
 Benefit Enhancement                                       hunting potential.
 [Component 1 of             With GEF       US$10.83       Increasedfinancial benefit to conservancies  Reducedillicit andunsustainableharvesting
 ICEMA]                      Altemative                    and membersthrough a variety of              o f globally valuable tree species, wild
                                                           enterprisesbasedon sustainable               plants, and animals due to diversifiedand
                                                           managementsand development of natural        improved livelihoods for communities in
                                                           resources and eco-tourism to achieve         conservanciesand surrounding areas
                                                           diversified livelihoods. Improvedecosystem   associatedwith globally significant hot
                                                           function.                                    spots.
                             Incremental    US2.58
                             Baseline       US$7.30        Core wildlife managementandgame              Management and monitoringmechanism
 Support  -Targeted                                        relocation activities to support domestic    developed for the development and
 SustainableEcosystem                                      wildlife and tourism andbenefits in          utilization of globally important wildlife
 Management                                                conservancies.                                resources.
 [Component 2 of             With GEF       US$11.26       Reducedland degradation and                   Reducedland degradation,and increasein
 ICEMA]                      Altemative                    unsustainableuse o f naturalresources         protectionof globally important
                                                           through sustainableintegrated planning and    biodiversity andecosystems through
                                                           managemento f all naturalresourcesin          integrated management.
                                                            conservancies.
                             Incremental    US03.96

 11. Targeted Institutional  Baseline       US$6.25         Fundamental policy and legal framework       Not specific.
 support                                                    for wildlife management and tourism
                                                            development inconservanciesinplace.


 [Component 3 of             With GEF       US$7.64         Enhancedmonitoring and information           Enhancedmonitoringand information
 ICEMA]                      Altemative                     exchangepermitting adaptive management.      exchange through improved record-keeping
                                                            Efficient coordination o f implementing      Development o f transferablemodels o f
                                                            institutions, monitoring o fprogress, and    CommunityBasedIntegrated Ecosystem
                                                            domestic awareness-building.                 Management.
                             Incremental    US$1.39

 111. Project Management     Baseline       US$O.OO
 support
 y & O o t 4 o f             With GEF       US2.70          Enhancedmonitoring and information           Greatercost-effectiveness inachieving
                             Altemative                     exchange permitting adaptive management.     global impacts.
~




                                                            Improvedscientific andtechnical
                                                            knowledgebase for decision-making and
                                                            site selection.
                             Incremental    US02.70
                             Baseline       US$21.80
 Totals                      With GEF       US$32.43
                             Altemative
                             Incremental    US$10.63



                                        Table A4.2 Financing Summary (US$ MM)



                                                             - 82 -

                                                   - -
                                                   GEF   GRN    FFEM OTHER TOTAL

On the ground support                              4.28   3.85   1.16 12.80 22.09
    I.Ecosystem-Based Income Generating Activities 2.20   1.80   0.00  6.83 10.83
    IISustainable Ecosystem Management             2.08   2.05   1.16  5.97 11.26

111.Targeted Institutional Support                 1.13   1.86   0.00  4.65  7.64

IV.Project Management Support                      1.69   0.40

    Total                                          7.10   6.1 1  1.75 17.47 32.43

    Total FinancingRequirements                    7.10   6.1 1  1.75 17.47 32.43

OTHER includes (with additional GRNcontributions embedded):
    Communities (Recipients of Sub-Projects)                           0.18
    EC:                                                                3.OO
    FinnishEmbassy:                                                    1.oo
    Kfw:                                                               3.00
    USAID:                                                            10.29




                                            - 83 -

                                 Annex 5: Financial Summary
          NAMIBIA Integrated Community-Based Ecosystem Management (ICEMA)
                                      Years Ending
                                         2004 2009
                                              -
                         (FN:IBRDADAinthe tables below refers here to GEF)
                                                    IMPLEMENTATIONPERIOD
                        1 Year1   I year2      I  year3       I  year4     1 Year5  IYear6  IYear 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
  Investment Costs             1.3        1.2            1.4           1.3       1.1     0.0    0.0
 Recurrent Costs               1.2        1.3            1.4           1.6       1.6     0.0    0.0
Total Project Costs           2.5        2.5            2.8            2.9       2.7     0.0    0.0
Total Financing               2.5        2.5            2.8            2.9       2.7     0.0     0.0
Financing
   IBRDllDA                    1.4        1.3            1.5           1.5       1.4    0.0      0.0
   Government                  1.1        1.1            1.2           1.3       1.4    0.0      0.0
       Central                0.0        0.0             0.0           0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0
       Provincial             0.0         0.0            0.0           0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0
   Co-financiers              0.0         0.0            0.0           0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0
Communities                   0.0         0.1            0.1           0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0
Other                         0.0         0.0            0.0           0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0
Total Project Financing       2.5         2.5            2.8           2.8       2.8    0.0      0.0
Mainassumptions:




                                              - 84 -

                            Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
       NAMIBIA: Integrated Community-BasedEcosystem Management (ICEMA)

Procurement

Background-Procurement Environment

There has been no Country Procurement Capacity Assessment Review (CPAR) in Namibia since
the World Bank has no lending program with that country. Public procurement is governed by the
Tender Board o f Namibia Act of 1996 which contains procurement regulations and code o f
procedures. The Act contains elements o f good procurement practice including (i)advertising of
upcoming opportunities in the monthly government gazette, (ii)       public opening of bids, (iii)
                                                                                                an
enforceable right of review for bidders when public entities breach the rules; and (iv) bid
evaluation i s carried out by the line ministry (through a tender committee).

The Act, among other things, requires that all procurement decisions from line ministries of
government are cleared by the Tender Board o f Namibia. However, projects financed by
multilateral financing institutions like the African Development Bank are carrying out their
procurement independently, -- in accordance with the provisions o f the specific loan or credit,
agreement without having to refer to the Tender Board. The ICEMA willfollow this same route
and have its own procedures, by application of Bank Guidelines and Grant Agreement
provisions, all clearly stated and described in the Procurement Procedures (PP) of the Financial
and Administrative Manual (part of the PIM).

The Government of the Republic of Namibia (GRN) has agreed to the use of Standard Bidding
Documents for NCB method. Procurement procedures,             -- applicable to sub-projects such as
simpliJed procedures and NCB,.as well as ICBfor larger contracts -- are described in the PP
section of the Financial and Administrative Manual.

Use of Bank Guidelines

Procurement o f civil works and goods will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRLI Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 edition - revised January and
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). Bank's Standard Bidding Documents and
Standard Bid Evaluation Forms for works and goods under International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) will beused. Since the GRNhas prepared Standard BiddingDocuments for procurement of
works and goods under National Competitive Bidding (NCB), procurement o f works and goods
under NCB will be carried out using these documents. Bank's Standard Bid Evaluation forms
would also be used for NCB contracts with necessary modifications. Procurement under the
 almost $ 2 million category for about 50 sub-projects (range in scale from small nursery
 enterprises to medium community-owned eco-lodges) will use SimplzFed Procurement
Procedures as laid down in the Procurement Procedures Section of the CFF manual and the
 Financial and Administrative Manual and will be applicable to conservancies/NGOs benefiting
 from Community FundFacility (CFF) grants. These will be executed usinga CDD model whereby
 communities are responsible for procurement of the necessary civil works, goods and services


                                                  - 85 -

(with assistance from MET, the PO, or intermediaries).

Selection o f Consultants will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers (January 1997 edition - revised
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002). Bank's Standard Request for Proposals and
evaluation forms will be used where applicable.

Advertising

A General Procurement Notice (GPN) is mandatoryand will be publishedinthe UNDevelopment
Business (UNDB) and ina national newspaper of wide circulation upon Grant approval. The GPN
will list the project components and goods, works and consulting services for which specific
contracts will be advertised. The recipient will keep a roaster of the responses received from the
potential bidders interested in the contracts. The GPN shall be updated annually for outstanding
ICB and large consultancy services. Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) for goods and works to
be procured under ICB and NCB and for consultant services will be published in a national
newspaper of wide circulation and may also be advertised in the UNDB in order to get the
broadest interest possible from eligible bidders. Such contracts may be advertised in the "on-line
version" o f UNDB to save time. The date o f the SPN should coincide with the date that the
biddingdocuments are available for purchase by interested bidders. Large consulting services (i.e.
above $200,000) will be advertised in the "on-line version" o f the UNDB and in an international
or technical newspaper, in order to seek expressions o f interest (EOI) prior to the preparation o f
the shortlist. Copy o f this advertisement will be sent to those firms which responded to the
expression of interest for consulting contracts listed in the GPN. It i s also encouraged to contact
embassies and professional organizations. Request for EO1 for other consulting services will be
advertised in a national newspaper o f wide circulation. At least two weeks should be allowed for
submission of expression o f interest.

Procurementcapacity

Procurement capacity assessment was carried out to assess the capacity o f the executing agency
which will be responsible for carrying out procurement under the proposed Integrated
Community-Based Ecosystem Management Project. The agency identified during the
pre-appraisal, mission carried out in April 2003, i s the Ministry o f Environment and Tourism
(MET). A training effort will be required to provide basic procurement training to all staff who
would be involved in procurement activities in the MET and in selected conservancies/NGOs.

Procurement strategy and planning i s not a normal feature of the national procurement system.
Procurement plans are not prepared by the Implementing Agencies. Procurement procedures are
laid down in the PP section of the Financial and Administrative Manual. This manual guides
procurement within the PO. It establishes clear responsibilitiesfor accountabilities and decision
making and procurement monitoring and evaluation. Other aspects of the procurement cycle
management to be covered include, use of standard bidding documents, guidelines for setting
evaluation criteria, thresholds and contract management issues.




                                                - 86 -

There will be need for the Procurement Officer to design a proper filing system of procurement
documentation andprocesses, and have it established by effectiveness.

Procurement ImplementationArrangements

The overall project implementation will fall under the responsibility of the Project Office (PO) to
be created in the Ministry of Environment and Tourism (MET), under the authority of its
Permanent Secretary. The PO will be headed by a Project Office Coordinator will also comprise
qualified staff to be recruited for accounting and procurement management, and other technical
experts, in addition to normal support staff. MET will be responsible for ensuring the smooth and
efficient   implementation of the project's various technical programs. MET's Directorates
(including DSS, DoF, DPWM, DOTand DEA and others as necessary) will cooperate through a
METACEMA Steering Committee that will provide guidance to the technical aspects o f all
project activities; individual Directorates may take the lead on some activities but in general all
Directorates will potentially contribute to providing technical input for all project
sub-components. One role of the Steering Committee will be to ensure that such guidance i s
conducted efficiently, and it may thus from time to time delegate specific technical tasks to
individual Directorates (in a similar fashion that MET's Management Committee currently
operates).

The functions of the MET/ICEMA Steering Committee, in consultation with the Project Office,
will include: (i)preparing annual work plans for the project, identifying the roles of MET's
Directorates within the activities identified inthat plan; (ii)
                                                              developing terms o f reference (TORS),
short lists, and requests for proposals (RFPs) for consulting assignments, and providingkey inputs
for the preparation o f bidding documents, including technical specifications, for goods contracts;
(iii) assisting the PO inestablishing and maintaining a filing system to record all documentation in
relation to the project implementation; (iv) participating inbid evaluation and short-list approvals,
including those associated with the CFF; (v) advising on the need for retaining specific advise
from the TSAR; (vi) advising on the need for supportive research studies relating to MET policy
initiatives; (vii) contributing to M&E efforts as may be called for by the project's M&E system;
(viii) dealing with public relations concerns that may be referred to it by the Project Office; (ix)
being available for World Bank Supervision missions, which will be scheduled to ensure that
schedules are mutually convenient.

The PO Procurement Officer main tasks will include (i)consolidating the annual plans from
MET/ICEMA Steering Committee; (ii)         day to day monitoring o f procurement actions o f IDSand
maintenance o f the master procurement plan (iii)      preparing bidding documents and providing
technical advice to staff who have been assigned procurement responsibilities in the IDS;(iv)
advertising contracts when appropriate; (v) assisting and participating in the evaluation o f bids
and proposals; (vi) preparing evaluation reports and no objection letters for onward transmittal to
the World Bank, when appropriate; (vii) advising Project Office Coordinator and METACEMA
Steering Committee on matters pertaining to procurement implementation on the project; and
(viii) providing quarterly reports to the World Bank, which will include procurementprogress to
date, procurement methods, nature and amounts o f contracts procured through each method,
number and amounts o f contracts subjected to prior review, etc. The PO Procurement Officer will



                                                 - 87 -

also be responsible for all communication with the Bank on procurement related matters and o f
the maintenance of all necessaryprocurement documentationfor the project.

Procurement Plan

The MET will prepare a detailed two years procurement plan and a tentative one for the
remaining period. The two years procurement plan will include relevant information on all goods,
works, and consulting services expected to be procured, and their estimated cost;
procurementhelectionmethod as well as timing in the procurementhelection process. However,
for the CFF it may not be possible to determine the exact mix of goods, services and works to be
procured. The overall procurement plan will be updated on annual basis in conjunction with
preparation o f the Annual Work Program and Budget.

ProcurementMethods

Civil Works supported under the project include the construction o f community-ecolodges, and
those that would be part of sub-projects under the CFF, for which it i s difficult to determine the
exact number and size of the contracts. However, all civil works, including those under the CFF,
will be procured inaccordance with the following procedures. Civil works contracts costing more
than US$ 200,000 equivalent per contract will be procured through International Competitive
Bidding(ICB). Domestic Preference will be applicable to local contractors bidding for contracts
through ICB, although ICB packages are not envisaged. Individualcivil works costing more than
US$ 50,000 equivalent but less than US$ 200,000 equivalent will be procured through National
Competitive Bidding (NCB). Civil works costing less that US$ 50,000 equivalent per contract
will be procured on the basis of simplified bidding documents by soliciting quotations from not
less than three (3) qualified domestic contractors, preferably more inorder to obtain at least three
comparable offers. The invitation shall include a detaileddescription o f the works, including basic
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank,
and relevant drawings, where applicable. In all cases the award shall be made to the contractor
who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and
resources to complete the contract successfully.

Goods : Goods to be procured include equipment and supplies, motor vehicles, GPS, radio
collars, fencing, office equipment and furniture. For goods estimated to cost US$ 100,000
equivalent and above per contract will be procured through International Competitive Bidding
(ICB). Individual contracts costing more than US$ 50,000 equivalent and less than US$lOO,OOO
equivalent will be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures. Goods
with an estimated value o f less than US$ 50,000 equivalent may be procured through National
and International Shopping, or the UNDP Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO),
based on comparing price quotations from at least three eligible suppliers inaccordance with IDA
Procurement Guidelines (paragraph 3.5 and 3.6) and June 9, 2000 Memorandum            "Guidance on
Shopping" issued by the Bank. Requests for such quotations will be in writing, and will include
time and place for deliveryof the quotations, a clear description/ specification and quantity of the
goods; as well as requirements for delivery time, place for delivery o f goods, and where needed
installation requirements as appropriate. The request for quotations should be sent to at least three


                                               - 88 -

reputable suppliers, however it may be better to approach up to six suppliers because not all three
suppliers may respond, so that at least three competitive quotations are received. In case of
International Shopping, quotations should be solicited from at least three suppliers in two
different countries. Quotations will be opened and evaluated at the same time. Whenever possible
goods o f similar nature and if needed during same period, they should be grouped into packages
of USD 100,000 equivalent or more, so that they can be procured through ICB in order to get
value for money.

Consultants' services and training: Consulting services required for implementation of the
project components, including studies, technical' assistance, and the supervision o f civil works,
which require the recruitment o f consulting firms or individual consultants will be procured in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment o f Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers. All Consulting services contracts above US$ 100,000 equivalent for
firms will be awarded on the basis o f Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) method in
accordance with Part I1o f the Guidelines. Shortlists for contracts costing less than US$ 100,000
equivalent may consist o f national firms only in accordance with provision of paragraph 2.7 of the
Guidelines provided that at least three qualified firms are available at competitive costs.
However, if foreign firms have expressed interest, they will not be excluded from consideration.
Other consulting services contracts below the threshold o f US$lOO,OOO equivalent for firms may
be awarded on the basis o f Consultants Qualifications (CQ) or Least-Cost Selection (LCS) in
accordance with Guidelines Part 111. Individual consultants will be selected in accordance with
Guidelines Part V. The selection o f UN agencies and Non-Governmental Organizations (NGO)
will be inaccordance with paragraphs 3.13 and 3.14 of the Guidelines and individual contract will
be limitedto US$ 50,000 equivalent.

Training Programs including workshops and study tours are geared toward building capacity,
information sessions and improving management skills. Training programs would be part of the
Project's Annual work plans and will be included in annual procurement plans. Prior review o f all
activities will be required, including proposed budget, agenda, participants, location of training,
andother relevant details.

Prior Review Thresholds (see Table B)

All civil works contracts estimated to cost US$ 100,000 equivalent or more, and the first 3
contracts estimated to cost US$50,000 equivalent or more, will be subject to the World Bank
review inaccordance with the procedures inAppendix Io f the Procurement Guidelines.

All goods contracts estimated to cost US$ 100,000 equivalent or more, and the first 3 contracts
procured under NCB method, will be subject to the World Bank review in accordance with the
procedures inAppendix Io f the Procurement Guidelines.

Consultancy contracts with firms estimated to cost US$ 100,000 equivalent or more, and
consultancy contracts with individuals estimated to cost US$ 50,000 equivalent or more will be
subject to IDA review in accordance with the procedures in Appendix Io f the Consultant
Guidelines.


                                                - 89 -

 Contracts which are not subject to prior review will be selectively reviewed by the Bank during
project implementation and will be governed by the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix Ito the relevant Guidelines. All documentation used for the procedures of contracting,
recruitment o f consulting services, evaluation and award shall be retained for subsequent
 examination by auditors andthe World Bank supervision missions.

 Overall ProcurementRiskAssessment

The overall procurement risk assessment for the project at both levels is rated High and the
 following action plani s designed to mitigate the highprocurement risk:

        ProposedAction Plan :

Item Action Proposed                                      ProposedCompletionDate
 1.     Establish Project Office (PO)                     By effectiveness
2.    Recruit qualified Procurement Officer for PO        By effectiveness
 3.     Recruit short term consultant to prepare          By effectiveness
        Procurement Procedures (PP) as part of the
        Financial and Administrative Manual
        Finalize PP and standardbiddingdocuments          By effectiveness
14.   I which exclude features not acceDtableto Bank
 5.     Training for IAs inthe use PP                     Effectiveness + 6 months
 6.     Train procurement staff inRecordManagement Effectiveness        +6 months
 7.     Train procurement staff inbasic procurement       Duringproject
        (ESAMI, GIMPA)                                    Implementation
 8.     Prior Review o f NCB and consultant               First 3 contracts
        aualification contracts
        Bank procurementpost reviewshpervision            Every 6 months during
        missions                                          Droiect imdementation




                                                 - 90 -

 Procurementmethods (Table A)




                                                                Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                     IC6                  NCB               Other              N.B.F.  Total Cost
1. Works                                      0.00                 0.35               0.00               0.00     0.35
                                             (0.00)                (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)   (0.00)
2. Goods                                      0.21                 0.07               0.33               0.00     0.61
Vehicles/Equipment                           (0.00)                (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)   (0.00)
3. Services                                   0.00                 0.00               2.03               0.00      2.03
                                             (0.00)                (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)    (0.00)
4. Training Workshops                         0.00                  0.00              0.79               0.00      0.79
                                             (0.00)                (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)    (0.00)
5. Project Grants                             0.00                  0.00               1.47              0.00      1.47
                                             (0.00)                (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)    (0.00)
6. Operating Costs                            0.00                  0.00               1.91              0.00      1.91
                                             (0.00)                (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)    (0.00)
    Total                                     0.21                  0.42              6.53               0.00      7.16
                                             (0.00)                (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)   (0.00)


  2:


 Vehicles will be purchased through IAPSO against necessary specifications.

 For service contracts relating to consultancy services, it is assumed that one-half will be packaged through
 consolidated contracts (>US$50,000) that may include multiple conservancies or multiple activities, and that one
 half will be packaged through small contracts that are targeted to specific activities or project sites.




                                                          - 91 -

                      Table A I: ConsultantSelectionArrangements (optional)
                                        (US$ million equivalent)




A. Firms                   0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
                           (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.00)   (0.00)
6. Individuals             0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
                           (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.00)   (0.00)
                  Total  I 0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
                           (0.00) I  (0.00)  I  (0.00)  I(0.00)   I(0.00)  I  (0.00)     (0.00)I  (0.00)
                                                                                        ~               I
I'Includingcontingencies

          Note:QCBS = Quality- and Cost-BasedSelection
                QBS = Quality-based Selection
                SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
                LCS = Least-Cost Selection
                CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
                Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
                Commercial Practices, etc.
                N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
                Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.




                                                   - 92 -

Prior review thresholds (Table B)

                 Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'




1.Works                               >=200K                          I C B                      All contracts
                                  <200K >=1OOK                        N C B                      All contracts
                                    4 0 0 K >50K                      N C B                  First3 contracts only
                                     =< 50,000                Price comparison and                   None
                                                              Simplified procedures
                                      All values                Direct contracting               All contracts
2. Goods                              >= lOOK                          I C B                     All contracts
                                      < lOOK                          NCB                    First3 contracts only
                                      <= 50K                     ShoppingAAPSO                       None
                                     All Values                 Direct contracting               All contracts
3. ServicesConsultant                 >= lOOK                         QCBS                       All contracts
firms                                  < 100K                      Consultant                        None
                                                                QualificatiodLCS
                                       >=50K                   Individual consultant             All contracts
Individuals                          < 50,000                  Individual consultant                 None
                                     All Values               Single source selection            All contracts

                Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$2 million
                         Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:            High
      Frequencyof procurementsupervisionmissionsproposed:                One every 6 months
                                                                         (includes special procurement supervision for
                                                                         post-reviewlaudits)


IThresholdsgenerally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
 Procurement" and contact the RegionalProcurementAdviser for guidance.




                                                    - 93 -

             Annex 6(B): Financial Managementand DisbursementArrangements
           NAMIBIA: IntegratedCommunity-Based Ecosystem Management (ICEMA)

 FinancialManaPement
 1. Summaryofthe FinancialManagementAssessment
 Country Risk
 Namibia i s not a `borrower' from the Bank, so far, hence no Country Financial Accountability
 Assessment (CFAA) has been carried out on the country to date. Inaddition, the ICEMA project
 i s generally considered to be the first `major' Bank foray into the country.

 Preliminary indications are that, like the vast majority of African countries, Namibia also suffers
 from a low capacity in terms o f financial professionals. The country however boasts no less than
 eighteen professional accounting firms, the majority of which have very strong links with South
 Africa.

 There is a well established `Office of the Auditor General', but the tendency i s to outsource some
 o f the work, particularly that relating to the audit of local authorities and parastatals.

 The country does have an African Development Bank (AfDB) loan and some development grants
 from bilateral organizations which it has been accounting for successfully.

 ProjectRisks
 Neither the lead ministry (Ministry of Environment and Tourism - MET) nor the Project Office
 (PO) can at this point demonstrate any previous experience with runningBank financed projects,
 but to the MET' s credit, it has successfully managed at least three preparation grants.

 In summary, the key financial management related risks that project management may face, and
 the manner inwhich they should be addressedare listed below:
ITypeofRisk                            I   Risk   I Remarks   andpossiblemitigation
                                         Rating
 FundingRisks
I1.       Fundsmay not be usedinan         M      A significant proportionofthe implementationwill be
 efficient andeconomical way and       I          /inthe handsof establishedagencies with competences     I
 exclusivelyfor purposesintended.                 inthe areas that they get selectedfor, but equally there
                                                  will be communities, particularly onthe CFF, that will
                                                  not have the capacity to manage the funds efficiently.
                                                  Clearly documented monitoringprocedures to be
                                                  develoved.

 2.       GRNmay be unable to meet          N     Appropriate andpractical arrangements have been
 its funding obligationsdue to                    made to capture VAT onproject expendituresfor
 budgetary constraints                            re-use by project, in addition to a budget line created
                                                  Ispecijkallyfor theproject.
 Overall FundingRiskAssessment         I   M I



                                                    - 94 -

Strengths and Weaknesses

Probable Strengths
Project financial management will be completely outside o f the government accounting system.
This means that there will basically be less bureaucratic processesbut greater focus on a narrower
range of expenditures. Both control and reporting ability should be enhanced by the Project
Office's intimate knowledge of the various activities that will be going on.

For accounting and reporting purposes, a computer based financial management system will be
established, and staff trained inits proper use.

Inaddition, the productionof an FinancialandAdministrative Manual acceptableto the Bank will
be a condition for effectiveness, meaningthat processes and controls will be adequately described
for users.

Project Accounting Staff will be recruited in accordance with Terms of Reference (TOR)
acceptable to the Bank.

Weaknesses
None o f the systems, the people, and the procedures to run the Finance Department are inplace
as yet. Hence it i s entirely possible that `good' people may not be found, the staff may not be able
to optimize use o f the computerized financial management system to be installed, and the
Financial andAdministrative Manual may not work so well inpractice.

Financial Management System and Reporting

Organizational Structure
A Project Office to be established specifically for the management of the project will be in day to
day charge o f the project operations. Inaddition to a Coordinator, the PO will be staffed by senior
officers incharge o f Accounting and of Procurement respectively.
The project's finance/accounting person will be responsible for all accounting record keeping,
disbursements, reporting, and general financial management. He will report to the Coordinator,
who in turn reports to the PS in the MET. The PS therefore retains overall responsibility for the
performance o f the project and for project funds. The PS i s thus the "Accounting Officer" for the
project.

Financial and Administrative Manual
Project financial management will be based on a system in an Financial and Administrative
Manual. The manual will give guidance on:
0   the financial policies andprocedures to be applied;
0   the accounting and internal control systemto be followed;
0   the nature and timing of financial reporting;
0   the flow of fimds channels;
0   and auditing arrangements.




                                                  - 95 -

The manual also contains details of:
0   Account Codes-the coding systemmustgive sufficient flexibility to provide financial
    information by :
   o    project activity
   o    project component
   o    expenditure category
0   InternalControlSystem
    FixedAssets-creation of a register andthe nature ofthe details therein.
0   Budgeting Salient features ofthe budgetpreparationprocess, as well as the monitoring o f
                -
    actual performance against budget.

Accounting System
The proposed accounting system for the project will be based on a computerized, double entry
system and will follow the government's `cash accounting' system. Its objectives include the
achievement of :
    Proper recording o f assets, liabilities, revenues (where applicable) and expenditures o f the
    project;
    Providing accurate and timely management information;
0   Providing timely and accurate information for use by other stakeholders inthe formats that
    they require;
0    Supporting the preparation o f statutory and other audits.

The accounting system must support the general principles o f equity, economy, efficiency, and
effectiveness. With regards to the Bank's requirements, the system must also be able to support
the production of quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR s) which integrate project
accounting, procurement, contract management, disbursement and physical progress o f activities
on the ground.

Reporting (Financial Monitoring Reports)
 Formats o f the various periodic financial monitoring reports to be generated from the financial
 management system will be developed. There will be clear linkages between the information in
 these reports and the Chart o f Accounts. The financial reports will be designed to provide quality
 and timely information to project management and various stakeholders on project performance.

 The following minimumquarterly FMRs will be produced :
 0      Financial Reports:
        o   Sources and Uses of Funds by Activity
        o   Sources and Uses of Funds by Component
        o    Special Account Reconciliation
 0       Physical Progress Report
 0       ProcurementMonitoringReport

 The FMRswill be produced for reporting purposes only. Disbursements will follow the traditional
 route (SA advance, SOEs and Withdrawal Applications). Only with consistent satisfactory
 performance interms o f the production o f FMR s will report based disbursements be considered.


                                                   - 96 -

Project Financial Statements
The Grant Agreement will require the submission of audited financial statements to the Bank
within six months after the financial year-end. Inaddition to the monthly bank reconciliationsand
quarterly FMR s, the project will be required to produce annual Project Financial Statements
which will be subject to audit.

The FinancialStatements will consist of:
0   A Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds which recognizes all cashreceipts, cashpayments
    and cash balances controlledby the project;
0   The Accounting Policies Adopted and Explanatory Notes. The explanatory notes shouldbe
    presented ina systematic manner with items on the Statement of Sources and Uses being cross
    referenced to any related information inthe notes. Examples of this information include:
    o   a summary of fixed assets by category o f assets;
    o   a summary o f SOE Withdrawal Schedule, listing individual withdrawal applications;
0   A ManagementAssertion that Bank funds have beenexpended inaccordance with the
    intendedpurposes as specified inthe relevant World Bank legal agreement.

Stafjng and Training
Staff Qualifications & Skills

The project's financial officer will be hiredbased on a TOR to be agreed with the Bank. This will
stipulate a certain minimumlevel o f qualification and experience.

TrainingPlan
A training planfor all staff is beingpreparedbasedontheir various backgrounds. The training will
include exposure to Bank procedures.

Supervision

Financial management supervision will be carried out regularly by the Financial Management
Specialist (FMS) at least twice a year. The initial supervision will be on implementation progress
o f agreed actions as per paragraph 11 and the effective operation o f the accounting system to be
developed for the PO. In addition, the project may be submitted to regular SOE reviews as
requiredby the World Bank.

The FMS will:
0   Conduct an FMsupervisionbefore effectiveness/ initial disbursement (per above);
0   Review the financial component o f the quarterly FMR s as soon as they are submitted to the
    World Bank; and,
0   Review the annual Audit Reports and Management Letters from the external auditors and
    follow-up on material accountability issues by engaging with the TTL, Client, and/or
    Auditors.

ProcurementArrangements



                                                - 97 -

Procurement by the project will be under the management o f a Procurement Officer to be hired.
There are no procurement arrangements that specifically impact the proposedFMarrangements.

SpecialAccount and Flow of FundsArrangements

The project will operate three bank accounts as follows :
e   Two bank accounts to house the IBRD/GEF funds:
   o    The US$ denominated Special Account (SA) to be operated by the counterpart and held
        at the Bank o f Namibia;
   o    A Namibia $ denominatedProjectAccount (PA) also to be operated by the counterpart
        and held at a local commercial bank.
0   One Namibia $ denominated `Counterpart Fund' Account (CFA) to be heldat a local
    commercial bank to house funds dedicated by the counterpart to the project.

Counterpart funds will be allocated through the normal Central Government budgetary process,
but in addition, actual cheques have to be raised and the amounts deposited into the CFA for the
project's ongoing use. An initial advance from Government will also be required. This will be
reinforced by VAT refunds which the Ministry of Finance agreed to credit direct to the project's
counterpart fund account.

All three bank accounts should be in place by the time of effectiveness. Details of the necessary
authorizations and the bank account signatories should be documented as part of the Financial and
Administrative Manual

Use of SOEs

Replenishment o f funds from IBRD to the SA will be made upon evidence of satisfactory
utilization of the advance, reflected in SOEs and/or on full documentation for payments above
SOE thresholds. Replenishment applications would be required to be submitted regularly
(generally monthly). If ineligible expenditures are found to have been made from the SA, the
grant recipient will be obligated to refund the same. If the SA remains inactive for more than six
months, the grant recipient may be requested to refund to IBRD amounts advanced to the SA.

IBRD will have the right, as will be reflected inthe Development Grant Agreement, to suspend
disbursement of the funds ifreporting requirements are not complied with.

FinancialManagementAction Plan
-
-No.                              Action                        Due date       Conditionality
1.       Prepare the Financial andAdministrative Manual.      Draft to be   Conditionof
                                                              ready by      Effectiveness
                                                              negotiation.

                                                              Finalto be a
                                                              :onditionof



                                                 - 98 -

                                                               effectiveness.
2.      Acquire andinstall a computerized accountingsystem      Six months      None
                                                                after
                                                                effectiveness
3.      Agree on format for FMR s.                              Negotiations    Copy of formatsto
                                                                                be attachedto
                                                                                minutes of
                                                                                negotiations
4.      Demonstrate ability to prepareFMR s.                    Effectiveness   Conditionof
                                                                                Effectiveness
5.      Appoint ProjectManagementandF M staff for the PO.
          ..                                                    Effectiveness   Conditionof
                                                                                Effectiveness
6.      OpenSpecialAccount at Bank ofNamibia,the Project       Effectiveness    Conditionof
        Account, and the Counterpart FundAccount ina                            Effectiveness
        commercialbank acceutableto IBRD
7.      Inconjunctionwiththe Auditor General, preparea          TOR s to be     DraftTOR to be
        shortlist of firms qualifiedto becomeauditors of the    ready by        readyby
        project to be invited to submitproposalsfor conducting  negotiation.    Negotiation
        the externalaudit onapproved terms of reference         Appointment
        acceptableto the World Bank.                            six months

                                                                effectiveness

Financial Covenants and Effectiveness Conditions

Financial covenants standard per Article IV o f the Development Grant Agreement.
                        -
Effectiveness conditions to be drawn from the Financial Management Action Plan above.

Conclusion

The overall conclusionsof the current financial management assessment are that :

9       The proposed financial management arrangements for the project would satisfy the
Bank's minimum requirements under OPBP 10.02. This will however be subject to
confirmation once the proposed staff have actually been hired, the proposed system i s in place,
the proposed manuals and FMR s have been completed. The various tasks should be implemented
by the due dates indicatedinthe table above.

2. Audit Arrangements
2.I     Internal Audit
The MET has an Internal Audit Department which the project could benefit from. Currently
however, the unit i s staffed with one officer only, and it is unlikely that the officer would be able
to discharge o f his duties in the MET satisfactorily, and then take on additional responsibilities for
the Project. Should the need for internal audit increase during implementation, considerationmay
be made to help the MET increase its staff compliment o f the Internal Audit Department in order
to optimize the use o f those resources.



                                                  - 99 -

2.2     External Audit
The external audit will be carried out annually by the Controller and Auditor General (CAG) or
such other qualified auditor approvedby the CAG and by the Bank. The external audit will cover
the project financial statements, including the Special Account and the Project Account at all
levels of project execution. The auditor will be required to express an opinion on the audited
project financial statements only, in compliance with International Standards on Auditing
(IFAC/INTOSAI pronouncements) and submit the audit report within six months o f the end of
the financial year. In addition, detailed management letters containing the auditor's assessment o f
the internal controls, accounting system and compliance with financial covenants in the Grant
Agreement, and suggestions for improvement will be prepared and submitted to management for
follow-up.

3. DisbursementArrangements
Disbursements from the Grant will be made on the basis of incurred eligible expenditures
(transaction based disbursements). The Bank will advance an initial amount from the proceeds of
the Grant into the Special Account. The advance to a SA would be used by the recipient to
finance the Bank's share o f project expenditures under the proposedgrant.

Where necessary, the direct payment method, involving direct payments from the Grant Account
to third parties for works, goods and services, may be utilized upon the recipient's request.
Payments may also be made to a commercial bank for expenditures against IBRD special
commitments covering a commercial bank's Letter of Credit. The Bank's Disbursement Letter
will stipulate the minimum application value for direct payment and special commitment
procedures.

Upon effectiveness, the project will be requiredto submit a withdrawal application for an initial
deposit to the SA. The deposit will be drawn from the Grant Account, in an amount to be agreed
and specified inthe Development Grant Agreement.
 Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
Retroactive Financing

Retroactive financing of up to US$250,000 from the Grant i s recommended for expenditures
incurred after May 1,2004.

                                Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds

          Expenditure Category             1 Amountin US$million 1        Financing Percentage
 Civil Works                                        0.31             100%o f foreign and 85% o f local
                                                                              expenditures
 Equipment and Vehicles                             0.54             100%o f foreign and 85% o f local
                                                                              expenditures
 Consultants Services                               1.82                           75%
 Training                                           0.71                          100%
 Sub-projects                                       1.50                          100%
 Operating Costs                                    1.72                           85%


                                                -100-

Unallocated                        0.50

Total Project Costs with Bank      7.10
Financing
Total                              7.10




                                 -101-

                               Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
         NAMIBIA: Integrated Community-BasedEcosystem Management (ICEMA)




/FirstBank mission (identification)                     0810112001                      11/01/2001
IAppraisal mission departure                            0410612003                      0211112003
1 Negotiations                                          0510112003                      0411912004
/Planned Date of Effectiveness                 IIII     0810112003           IIII       0713112004     IIII

Prepared by:
PDF-Bcoordinator: M s Ebben Simon (previously M s NepetiNicanor, Mr.NathanaelAreseb)

MET ICEMA working group, ledby Permanent Secretary Dr.MalanLindeque andDirector o f
Environmental Affairs Mr.Teo Nghitila

 Preparation assistance:
N A C S O Secretariat: Patricia Skyer and PDF-BManagement Committee

  iank staff who worked on the Droiect included:
                                   * I
          Name                                          Speciality
  Zhristophe Crepin                     I'ask Team Leader
  Lucie Tran                            Operational Analyst
  2hris Warner                          Senior Environmental Specialist
  :raj Talaj                            Senior Financial Management Specialist
  3laheddine Ben-Halima                 Senior Procurement Specialist
  4berra Zerabruk                       Lead Council
  Steve Gaginis                         Disbursement
  Beula Selvadurai                      Program Assistant
  Yina Doetinchem                       Biodiversity Specialist
  DanAronson                            Social Safeguard Advisor
  h   e Dalfelt later John A. Boyle     Environmental Safeguard Advisor
  Gabriele Rechbauer                    Consultant (PAD)
  Richard Cambridge                     Quality Enhancement
  Nicole Glineur                        Peer Reviewer, Senior Environmental Specialist (MNA)
  Juan Pablo Ruiz                       Peer Reviewer, Natural Resource Management Specialist (LAC)
  Reiner Woytek                         IndigenousKnowledge
  Jack Ruitenbeek                       Consultant (PIM)
  HarriSeppanen                         Consultant (m&e)
  Jonathan Nyamukapa                    Financial Management Specialist
  Pauline McPherson                     Resource Management Officer
  HishamA. Abdo Kahin                   Legal Advisor



                                                   -102-

KirkHamilton                           LeadEnvironmentalEconomist
William Sutton                         Agricultural Economist




Duringthe preparation phase, the following studies and activities have beenundertaken with
GEF PDF-B resources andused to definethe project's scope and design:

1. Study for baseline surveys to identify biodiversity and other indicators in three targeted
   conservancies to propose local monitoring and evaluation system for integrated ecosystem
   management:          The study results were usedfor the participatory process to prepare the
   National CBNRM Program's m&e system and the project m&e manual. At local level, the
   results were used to develop the Conservancy Development Guide's self-assessment
   indicators but judged by field-based organizations relatively ambitious (seefor more details
   under point 5 below).
2. Modelling pilot game translocation between communal and commercial conservancies:
   The report identified costs, benefits as well as success andfailure features for this pilot game
   translocation which were used to identij, and define component 2 wildlife management
   activities as part of ecosystem restoration measures and support for strategic and
   operational guidance at ministerial level.

3. National assessment o f land use, management and tenure impacts on biodiversity and
   environmental sustainability - joint activity o f MLRR, MAWRD, MET, MRLGH:               Due to
   the potential scope of the proposed follow-up activities and the political interest received
   from MLRR and MET, it was decided to develop a separate more research-oriented GEF
   MSP proposal. The PDF-A for the "Promoting Environmental Sustainability through
   Improved Land-Use Planning" has been approved by the Bank and GEF Secretariat in
   November 2003.
4. Study for scope for Environmental Investment Fund (EIF) Endowment: An international
   experienced environmental trustfund consultant undertook this study together with the MET
   to assess the legal, institutional, policy and financial framework for the EIF. The
   recommendations will be used to determine the ;future review of the EIF and scope of
   ICEMA's support under component 3.
5. Study for conservancy development guide and development of manual:               The objectives of the
    CDG changed during the development process from a more donor-driven perspective to
   categorize conservancies according to their needs to a conservancy self-assessmentplanning
    tool). I t was tested in afew emerging conservancies in the South and will befurther reviewed
   andfinetuned by MET and its partners (including conservancies). Ideally, it should be used
   as one of the start-up tools in the conservancy planningprocess supported under component
   2.
6. Support for vision process to develop integrated CBNRM framework and action plan: A
   participatory process including a multi-stakeholder workshop was supported with PDF-B



                                               - 103-

   resources. The result, the 5-year CBNRM vision plan, was used as the basisfor the ICEMA
   design (see annex 1, annex 2 and section c).

7. Support for MET's CSD capacity assessment and development o f training plan: PDF-B
   resources were used to assess the then newly established MET'S CBNRM Support Division
   capacity and their training needs. A long and short-term trainingplan is available. ICEMA
   is expected to supportpart of its implementation under component 3.

8. Study on Conservancy Feasibility Assessment and Support for Southern Namibia: The
   report provides a detailed assessment and profiles for            emerging and registered
   conservancies in Southern Namibia as well as their technical andfinancial support needed
   and prospects for sustainability. The results have been used for the project sites selection
   process (see annex 16) and the overall definition of component 2.

9. Development o f communication strategy for national CBNRM program:             The document
   will be used to implement the knowledge management sub-component of component 3 and
   provides a good assessment of the CBNRM stakeholder involved and their current
    relationships.
10. Development of monitoring and evaluation manual:        A drajl project m&e manual has
    been developed, supported by international and national consultants, the MET and
    non-governmental organizations (see annex 18). Input has been provided tofirst efforts for a
   National CBNRM m&e system (not yetfinalized).
11. Support for MET to review CBNRM relatedpolicy framework:TheMETprovided a detailed
    CBNRMpolicyframework (see annex 12).

12. Study on identification o f community forests adjacent to conservancies with potential for
    piloting joint resource planning and implementation on communal lands under an integrated
    ecosystem approach:           The identified target sites were used in the selection process
    leading to the 10 pilot sites (see annex 16) as well as to collect proposals (scope, budget,
    implementation, sustainability) for    certain CFF sub-projects (agro-forestry,       NTFP,
    multi-sector) and ecosystem restoration activities.
13, Environmental and Social Assessment including Indigenous People Development Plan and
    Resettlement Policy Framework: The safeguard documents are summarized in section E 5 -
    7 and annex 19.
14. Development o f Project Implementation Manual:          A draft PIM is available including a draft
    CFFmanual.




                                              - 104-

                             Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
         NAMIBIA: Integrated Community-BasedEcosystemManagement(ICEMA)


 A. Project ImplementationPlan
  The Project ImplementationPladManual (PIM) has beenpreparedby the Ministryof
  Environment and Tourism with support of local consultants (Mr.Jerry Mameja and Mrs.Lindi
  Ilonze) and reviewedby Jack Ruitenbeek (international consultant) as well as the project quality
  assuranceteam.

  The Project Implementation Manual includes three sub-manuals: (i) the Community-Funding
  Facility Manual; (ii)the Financial andAdministrative Manual; and the (iii) M&EManual.
                                                                          the

  B. Bank Staff Assessments
 Written comments receivedprior the Concept Review, Januarv 17,2002 including uroiect team
  responses:
   i.PeerReviewer:NicoleGlineur(MNA),Dec.18,2001
  ii.BobWinterbottom(externalpeerreviewer, SeniorManager,IRG),Jan.17,2002
 iii.GonzaloCastro(GEFTSBiodiversity,ENV),Dec.21,2001
 iv. Philippe Chardonnet (external mandatory STAP reviewer), Dec. 12,2001
  v. ReinhardWoytek (AFTQK, indigenous knowledge), Jan. 16,2002
 vi, Iraj Talai, (AFTQK, financial management), Jan. 16, 2002
vii. Slaheddine Ben-Halima (AFC08, procurement), Jan. 17,2002
viii. Bill Sutton (YP), Dec. 2001
 ix. DanAronson (AFTES, Social Safeguard Policies), Jan. 16, 2002
  x. Arne Dalfelt (AFTES, Environmental Safeguard Policies), Jan. 17. 2002

  Written comments receivedprior Decision Meeting, Januarv 19, 2004 includingDroiect team
  resuonses:
   i.PeerReviewer:NicoleGlineur(Sr. EnvironmentalSpecialist,MNA)
  ii.PeerReviewer:JuanPabloRuiz(NaturalResourceManagementSpecialist,LAC)
 iii.Jean-MichelPavy(BiodiversitySpecialist,AFR)
 iv. Enos Esikuri(Technical Specialist Landdegradation, ENV)
  v. ChristopheJames Warner (Sr. Environmental Specialist, AFTS1)
 vi. STAP Reviewer: Dr.Philippe Chardonnet

  C. Other
  Mission reports
o     Multi-purpose Mission BTOR and Aide Memoire NovembedDecember, 2000
o     Preparation Mission BTOR March 2001
o     Preparation MissionAide Memoire May, 2001
o     Identification Mission BTORNovember 2001 and Aide Memoire, Dec. 10,2001
o     Preparation MissionAide Memoire, February, 2002
o     Preparation Mission BTOR and Aide Memoire, ApriUMay, 2002



                                              - 105-

o   PreparationMission BTOR and Aide Memoire NovembedDecember, 2002
o   Pre-appraisalMission BTOR, April 18, 2003 including Aide Memoire, May 18, 2003
o   PreparationMissionBTOR, December 14,2003 including Aide Memoire, December4,2003
o   Appraisal BTOR including Aide Memoire February 24,2004

Bank internal milestonesinproiect develoDmentprocess
o   PDF-B Grant Agreement, June 5,2001
o   Minutesof Concept Review Meeting,Feb. 14,2002
o   Minutesofthe DecisionMeeting, January 28,2004
o   Agreed Minutesof Negotiations, April 19-20,2004
o  Boardpresentation, expected on June 12004

Documentation of fiduciary requirements
o  Audit of PDF-B resourcesNNF/NACSO 2003 (09/22/2003)
o   Legal andPolicy Framework (up-dated version 10/15/2003)
o   Agency procurementcapacity assessmentreport (1st version 03/18/2003, final version
    11/10/2003) by Slaheddine Ben-Halima AFTQK
o   Financial managementassessmentreport (December 11,2003) by JonathanNyamukapa

GEF milestonesinthe proiect development cvcle
o   Proposalfor Project Development Funds (PDF) submitted to GEF Secretariat, Jan. 5,2001
o   GEF approval for PDF resources, Feb. 2,2001
o   GEF approval for PCD, May 15,2002
o   GEF CEO endorsement PAD, April 19,2004
*Including electronicfiles




                                           -106 -

                              Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
              NAMIBIA: Integrated Community-Based Ecosystem Management (ICEMA)
                                                 29-Am-2004
                                                                                                        Differencebetweenexpected
                                                                                                                 and actual
                                                      OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                           disbursements'
Project ID  FY Purpose                            IBRD        IDA                        Cancel.  Undisb.      Orlg   Frm Rev'd


                                          Total:    0.00       0.00                         0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00




                                                   NAMIBIA
                                               STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                            Heldand DisbursedPortfolio
                                                  Mar 2004
                                                       -
                                             InMillions US Dollars


                                                                 Committed                                Disbursed
                                                               IFC                                    IFC
    FY Approval        Company                         Loan     Equity      Quasi     Partic    Loan     Equity      Quasi     Partic
    2001              NIB Namibia                       0.00       0.22      0.62       0.00    0.00       0.22        0.62    0.00
    1997101           NamibiaLife                       0.00       0.81      0.00       0.00    0.00       0.81        0.00     0.00
    1996198102        Novanam                          11.34       0.00       0.00      0.00    7.61       0.00        0.00     0.00
                            Total Portfolio:           11.34       1.03       0.62      0.00      7.61      1.03        0.62    0.00



                                                            Approvals PendingCommitment
    FY Approval       Company                              Loan       Equity        Quasi      Partic
    2000              AEF Gateway Hot1                     1.03         0.00         0.00       0.00

                      Total PendingCommitment:             1.03         0.00         0.00       0.00




                                                    -  107-

                                                 Annex IO: Country at a Glance
            NAMIBIA: Integrated Community-BasedEcosystem Management(ICEMA)
                                                                             Sub-     Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                         Saharan   mlddie-
                                                                Namlbia     Afrlca   income
2001
Population. mid-vear fmiiiions)                                        1.6    674      2,164                    Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                   1,960    470      1,240
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                       3.5    317      2,677
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (%I                                                         2.0     2.5       1.o
Labor force (%I                                                        2.0     2.6       1.2      GNI                                     Gross
                                                                                                  per                                    primary
Most recent estlmate (latest year available, 1995-01)                                             capita                              enrollment
Poverty (% of population below nationalpoverty line)
Urban population (% of total popuiation)                               31       32        46                                                    I
Life exDectancv at birth (vears)                                       47       47        69
Infant mortalitv (per 7,000 live births)                                62      91        33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                                11            Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% ofpopulation)                     77      55        80
illiteracy (% ofpopuiation ege 15+J                                     17      37        15
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)                  113      76       107         -Namibia
    Male                                                               112      65       107                 Lower-middle-income group
    Female                                                             114      72       107

KEY ECONOMiC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                     1981            1991     2000      2001
                                                                                                  Economlc ratloa'
GDP (US$ billions)                                     2.1             2.7     3.4       3.1
Gross domestic investment/GDP                                         17.5    24.0      24.5
Exports of goods and services/GDP                                     49.5    47.6      53.7                         Trade

Gross domestic savinas/GDP                                             3.6    12.3      11.9
Gross national savinas/GDP                                            21.4    29.1      26.9

Current account balance/GDP                            -5.1            3.9     5.1       4.5
interest pavments/GDP                                                           1.o       1.6
Total debt/GDP                                                         6.7      5.1      6.5
Total debt service/exports                                                      2.0
Present value of debt/GDP                                                                                               i

Present value of debtlexports
                                                                                                                   Indebtedness
                                         1981-91 1991-01             2000     zoo1   2001-05
leverage annual growthl
GDP                                          1.2        4.5            3.3      2.7                    -Namibia
GDP per capita                              -2.4        2.2            1.0      0.7                           Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services                  ..       2.9            2.9      4.9


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY

(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                             9.6           11.1
industry                                              45.5            32.3    33.0       32.7
   Manufacturing                                      10.9            15.7    11.5       11.2
Services                                              44.7            56.6    55.2       55.9

Private consumption                                                   65.0
General government consumption                                        31.2    26.4       26.6
Imports of goods and services                             ......      63.2    59.3       66.2

                                                                                                 1
(average annual growth)                          1g8i-g1        lggl-O1       zooo                Growth of exports and Imports (Oh)            1
Agriculture                                             3.6            4.1    11.4       -0.4     l5

lndustrv                                                0.5            1.9     -0.6       1.6     lo

   Manufacturinq                                        2.6            2.6      4.5       0.6      5
Services                                                2.4            4.1      3.9       3.9      0

Private consumption                                                    1.5      1.2       3.6
General government consumption
Gross domestic investment                                              9.2      9.8       2.7               -Exports           -Imports
imports of goods and services

Note: 2001 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-arouu averaqe. If data are missing. the diamond will
    be incomplete.




                                                                          -108-

                                                                                                            Namibia

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                         1981   1991   2000   2001     Inflation ("A)
Domesticprices
                                                                    jl:
(% change)                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                       "1
Consumerprices                           14.8   11.9     9.0    9.5   15
Implicit GDP deflator                      0.8    0.4   11.3    9.2

Government finance
(% of GDP, includes currentgrant$
Current revenue                                 32.1    33.5  32.5      O '      96    97      98      99        00
Current budget balance                            2.3    2.4    0.9             -GDP       deflator   +CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          -3.3   -2.1   -5.0

                                                                                                                        I
TRADE
                                         1981   1991   2000   2001
(US$ millions)                                                          Exportand Import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                      1.126  1,179  1,312  1,367    2,000 j.
 Diamonds                                 289    443    530    560
 All mineralsexcept diamonds              485    296     187    199
 Manufactures                              167   242    297    301
Total imports(ci0                        1,228  1,228  1,560  1,610
 Food                                            263     334   344
 Fuel and energy                                  72     92     95                                                      I
 Capital goods                                   407     518    534        " I     1     1    .      1     I       I



Exportprice index (1995=100J                                                    95   96    97    96      g9     00

Import price index (1995=100)                                                        BIExports           Imports     O1
Terms of trade (1995=100)

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                         1981   1991    2000  2001     1 Current
(US$ miliionsJ                                                                   account balanceto GDP (YO)             I
Exportsof goods and services             1,235  1,214  1,500  1,538
Importsof goods and services             1,617  1,581  1,902  1,935
Resourcebalance                          -382   -367    -402  -397

Net income                               -124      97    122    127
Net currenttransfers                              375    456    409

Current account balance                  -106     105    176    139

Financingitems(net)                             -118    -160    -37
Changes in net reserves                            12    -16   -101    1     95    96    97    96      99       00   01  I
Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ mi//ions)      N/A     62    262    236
Conversionrate (DEC, local/US$)            0.9    2.8    6.9    8.6

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                         1981   1991    2000  2001
(US$ millions)                                                           Composltlon of 2001 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed               180    173    264
  IBRD                                                     0      0
  IDA                                                      0      0

Total debt service                                        34
  IBRD                                                     0      0
  IDA                                                      0      0
Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants
  Officialcreditors                                        5
  Privatecreditors                                         0      0
  Foreigndirect investment
  Portfolioequity                                                                        E 19
                                                                                                                         I
World Bank program
  Commitments                                              0      0      A - IBRD                          E Bilateral
  Disbursements                                            0      0      B IDA       D Other multilateral
                                                                                      -                    F Private
                                                                                                            --
  Principairepayments                                      0      0      C IMF
                                                                           --                              G Short-term
                                                                                                               ~



  Net flows                                                0      0
  Interestpayments                                         0      0
  Nettransfers                                             0      0

DevelopmentEconomics                                                                                               9/23/02


                                                     -109-

                   Additional Annex 11 (a): STAP Roster Technical Review
         NAMIBIA: IntegratedCommunity-Based EcosystemManagement (ICEMA)

REVIEW OF PROJECT CONCEPT DOCUMENT AND UP-DATED O N BASISOF PROJECT
APPRAISAL DOCUMENT:

IntegratedCommunity-Based Ecosystem Management (ICEMA)

REVIEWER:                Dr.Philippe Chardonnet, DVM, Wildlife Manager

DATE:                    31.12.2003


Terms of reference I Biodiversity

This independent review has been commissioned by the World Bank (contact person: Christophe
Crepin). The standard terms o f reference for Independent Technical Review o f GEF Investment
Projects have been followed.

KEY ISSUES

Scientific and technical soundness of the project

Nowadays, the concept o f "conservancy" appears to be one o f the few innovative and promising
avenues for conserving and managing biodiversity in Sub-Saharan Africa. The PCD reviewed i s
fairly grounded in this concept. As a consequence, the project makes judicious use and takes
advantage o f a favorable situation in Namibia, the leading country as far as this concept,
particularly o f the community-driven type, i s concerned.

The conservancy concept was born out of the intention to satisfy a range o f needs newly raisedat
the turn o f the century:
0   Rural-dwellers felt the necessity to invent new ways o f making a profit out of wilderness areas
    for their own benefit as alternative/complementarysources of income;
e   Local conservationists, trapped in the National Parks concept, often severely confronted to
    negative attitudes o f adjacent stakeholders, could hardly promote the expansion of the
    National Parks network, and needed innovative approaches to conserve biodiversity outside
    National Parks;
e   Governments o f developing countries realized the difficulty of administrating huge tracts o f
    land (inmost countries o f Southern Africa, protected areas often cover a 2-digit percentage o f
    the whole surface of the country) with small financial resources and meager expertise, inview
    of higher priorities such as public health, education, agriculture, without talking of security;

So far, conventional approaches did not give much opportunity to the civil society for taking and
assuming a share in the global effort to conserve biodiversity. The above-mentioned needs were
more and more openly expressed, especially in the Southern part o f the African continent and


                                                - 110-

notably after the 1992 Rio Earth Summit.They paved the way and exerted pressure to provide the
civil society with a formal role to play inbiodiversity conservation. Inthis regard, since it is in full
accord with the International Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), the PCD could readily
quote some o f the relevant articles o f the CBD (StratCgie Mondiale de la Biodiversitt, 1994), i.e.:
    Item VI11 Action 59: "augment the ecological and social value of protected areas by (i)
    acquiring and zoning land tracts outside the protected areas and (ii)financial incentives for
    conservationon adjacent private land";
0   Box 6: "...allow communities to manage their own environment. For that, the communities
    mustobtain the rightsand adequate knowledge to operate."
0   Box 7 : "The costs and advantages o f biodiversity conservation must be shared more equitably
    betweennations and between citizens".
0   Box 8: "Integrate the management o f biodiversity in the whole range o f human activities:       ...
    sustain private initiatives of conserving biodiversity inthe private sector.. ."

I t must be admitted that some attempts had been made in the past to relieve part o f the burden
from Central Governments:
0   As early as 1963, just after the independence of Kenya, decentralization had been
    experimented by setting up National Reserves, like Marsabit NR or Shimba Hills NR, which
    were managed by the "local county councils". Nevertheless they remained under the
    guardianship of the National Parks administration and not of the Game Department's, then in
    charge o f wildlife outside National Parks (Leakey, 2001);
0   Ina similar intention, Parastatal agencies had also been created ina number of countries such
    as e.g. KWS (Kenya Wildlife Service) in Kenya or TANAPA (Tanzania National Parks) in
    Tanzania, but the management o f biodiversity outside protectedareas was struggling;
0   South Africa had been an exception with the successful development o f commercial game
    ranches, however it mainly relied on white Africans rather than blacks;
0   Few instances see foreign private investors sponsoring wildlife conservation, e.g. some
    concessions runby the private sector inMozambique;
0   More frequent cases maybe involve international NGO's to support large protected areas,
    however (i)   they mostly remain the "agents" o f funding agencies and (ii) too often simply
                                                                                  they
    substitutethemselvesinthe position the local stakeholders should have taken.

As a result of this situation, informal activities have developed by themselves within the civil
society with globally meager, insignificant or even negative results in terms o f sustainability and
efficiency. The time came appropriately to develop the concept o f Community-Based Natural
Resources Management (CBNRM). The CAMPFIRE pioneer enterprise in Zimbabwe, without a
doubt, was the most significant initiative to devolve the management of wildlife on communal land
to local communities. However, despite substantial and still promising results, some constraints
remain within the CAMPFIRE network such as the difficulty to decentralize beyond the District
level o f the administration and to really transfer the appropriate authority to more grass-root
levels. Recent studies have questioned the CBNRM philosophy for taking the monopoly as a
single ideal and unavoidable way of managing wildlife: these recognize CBNRM as an important
tool but not as a panacea (Hackel, 1999; Adams & Hulme, 2001). This brings a supplementary
justification for supporting the conservancy model inNamibia.




                                                - 111 -

Conservancies offer a relevant opportunity for Government agencies to hand-over the
responsibility o f managing wildlife outside State land. At this stage it i s probably worth better
defining the precise meaning(s) of "conservancy" which is maybe not that trivial/obvious by
reading the PCD. I t must be said that, even though the definition o f "conservancy" i s still a matter
o f debate, the resulting lack of precision does not preclude the development o f the concept.

A communal conservancy consists in setting aside part or all of the land of a given community
with the intention to conserve and vaporize wildlife through its sustainable consumptive and
non-consumptive uses within nature-related activities. Namibia i s certainly leading this kind of
enterprise even though other neighboring countries have embarked in similar ventures. The
dramatic development o f communal conservancies which has already taken place inthis country is
maybe not enough emphasized in the PCD if we consider that only 4 communal Conservancies
were registered in 1988, covering an area of about 1.7 million ha (Brown & Jones, 1998), while
they were 9 in 1999 covering 2.2 million ha (Ministry of Environment and Tourism, Republic of
Namibia, 2000) and they are now 29 on 7.4 million ha. It might be reminded that a so-called
"commercial conservancy" i s another kind of concept and consists in aggregating two or more
adjacent private properties in a single wildlife management unit without abandoning individual
ownership o f the land. By the way, the term "commercial" may preferably be replaced by the word
"private", as community conservancies also are intendingto pursue commercial goals.

The PCD provides a more than useful up-date of the current Conservancies' situation inNamibia,
By doing so, the PCD mainly focuses on their financial viability according to the usual schemes of
Northern countries. Eventually, the PCD does not take much into account nonfinancial benefits of
CBNRM which admittedly "are less tangible, harder to measure, but from the perspectives o f
social development and ecosystem sustainability, can far exceed financial benefits in significance"
(Ashley, 1998). These include "(i)        capacity-building and empowerment, (ii)more secure
livelihoods, (iii)cultural and aesthetic values of wildlife and local traditions, (iv) enhanced natural
resource base and (v) political, social, economic and environmental benefits at the national level"
(Brown & Jones, 1998). Despite being difficult to assess, these benefits should be taken into
account in (i)the decision-making process and (ii)        the M&E procedure o f the project. They
should also become part o f the panel o f indicators, which are otherwise well defined inthe PCD.
One particular acknowledgment: the demand-driven service to conservancies planned by the
project i s very relevant, while too many projects elsewhere adopt a sole and risky
"product-driven" approach.

As far as the definition of conservancies is concerned, two particular situations are worth
mentioning inthe region o f Southern Africa and may be o f interest for the project:
0    Some game ranches claim being "conservancies" probably because o f the fashionable and
    attractive concept, even though they cannot apply being such due to their functioning as a
    single-property venture, usually with little concern towards rural development;
0   To the contrary, interesting experiments should claim to be truly conservancies, for joining
    either communal and commercial or even State land. Perhaps, one demonstrative example may
    be the Kruger NP case where large tracts o f fence have been pulled down between the
    National Park itself and adjacent commercial wildlife ranches, thus allowing a better ecosystem
    approach to wildlife management.



                                                 - 112-

Identification of global environmental benefits

Namibia has the originality of having a great variety o f biomes in which communal conservancies
have already been established for a few years. It also offers varied climatic conditions: insufficient
and unreliable rainfall have largely maintained land-uses to activities such as hunting and
gathering, pastoralism and low-density livestock ranching, and led to a relative absence o f
agriculture, therefore conserving large tracts of largely intact natural habitats.

Namibia i s definitely a leader among African countries in terms of biodiversity conservation, not
only o f endangered species but interms of sustainable utilization of common species andproducts.
In this particular country, the existing and often abundant wildlife resource precisely offers the
opportunity to develop a holistic approach to conservation and sustainable development through
sound innovative management schemes. And the ICEMA project i s well designed to do so.

It may be stressedthat Namibia is especially hosting (i) of critical importance & (ii) of
                                                           taxa                             issues
global relevance. To quote a few:
 i.Thehumanvs.wildlifeconflicthasbeentackledforalongtimeinthiscountry,withmitigated
    success (Stander et al., 1997), e.g. predation by the Namibian cheetah, world's largest
    population of the taxon, still poses problems to the livestock industry, whether commercial
    cattle ranches or communal pastoralists (Marker-Kraus et al., 1996). The conservancy model
    brings an opportunity to revisit conventional approaches towards large predators in
    coexistence with man. A similar approach is expected with elephants.
ii.CommoninNamibia,desert&semi-desertenvironmentshaveshapeddrought-resistantflora
    & fauna through millenaries of harsh co-evolution. Exotic species such as domestic animals
    and crops have not gone through this natural process. With the development of adaptive
    sustainable-use management practices in conservancies, natural habitats can be rehabilitated
    and maintained and their products given added value, giving new development opportunities
    to rural communities.

All things considered, the project will fund the promotion of biodiversity conservation by
supporting    the development       o f   the   already    launched    and on-going      process    of
conservancy-building. In this manner, it fits very well with the GEF goal, which i s precisely to
provide funding to cover incrementalcosts of activities infavor o f biodiversity.

Regional context

The prospect o f setting up a network o f conservancies in Namibia, as proposed by the PCD,
sounds very attractive. One could have hoped to extend the network to the already existing
conservancies in neighboring countries, i.e. Botswana, South Africa and Zimbabwe. Zimbabwe
certainly i s a prominent country as regards commercial conservancies and some o f them have
gained international recognition, as for example one o f first ever created, the Save Conservancy.

The recently launched SADC "Transboundary Natural Resource Management Areas program        "
would provide the project with an appropriate framework for linking the various experiences of



                                                - 113-

conservancies throughout the region (Cumming, 1999; Griffin et al., 1999). It involves five SADC
countries including Namibia. Fundedby USAID and implemented by the Africa-based NGO AWF
(African Wildlife Foundation: head-quartered in Nairobi, outpost in SADC zone), the program
intends to set up a continuum o f wildlife management areas linking classic protected areas
(National Parks, Wildlife Reserves, Hunting Blocks, etc.) through corridors in open areas. The
so-called Okavango/Caprivi/Chobe/HwangeTBNRM area would make a single management unit
stretching from Caprivi in Namibia to Hwange NP in Zimbabwe. For those of the Namibian
conservancies falling defacto in the regional program area, a partnership between the project and
the regional program seems more than consistent.

SADC may be a partner to take into consideration, even though USAID i s mentioned as one of
the bilateral funding agencies. Other TBNRM areas are under study at this very moment
throughout the SADC region.

Replicability of the project

The project development objective and the project global objective are obviously replicable. All
rural communities suffer from a lack o f technology transfer from one community to the other, of
information concerning the new products which their land offers either for on-site value added
transformation, or for local, national or even export trade. Most communities are not aware of
these possibilities offered by far away markets, and lack the capacity to address them. Local
management and business planning proficiency, including elementary accounting, banking
opportunities, etc. are capacities which can be developed at the conservancy level, therefore
enabling decisions to be taken locally, rather than being transferred to central Government
administrations.

The project's objectives inthe real o f communication must not hide the reality, which i s in fact an
asset, that, within one country and even more so from one African country to another, the very
nature o f "conservancies" covers a wide variety o f concepts, covered by different laws and
regulations, socioeconomic conditions, natural environments, successes and failures. The project,
which i s aimed at implementing integrated ecosystem management through conservancy
networking, can fill the ever-present lack o f communication between rural people. Those people
are generally not equipped with modern means of transmitting information, which in many cases,
many would not be able to write or read anyway. But, what is more important yet is that people
who live from the land need to see with their own eyes what i s being done by others on their land
and have the opportunity to ask pointed questions relating to their problems at home and make up
their own opinion as to applicability of what they have seen. Reciprocal visits on site between
communities are very much indemand and should be an essential tool o f the networking effort.

It must be remembered also that farmers and pastoralists who have survived in marginal habitats
are careful people, and that, unless they are put under external or survival pressure to degrade
their land, they will take their time to adopt new avenues and techniques which will ensure
sustainable utilization and development. They should be encouraged to diversify the possibilities of
harvesting and giving added value to the biodiversity present on their land, in order to improve
their food and economic security, as well their ecosystems' stability.



                                               -114-

  As mentioned above, the project can obviously and indeed should be adapted to all countries of
  the SADC Region. Furthermore, there seems to be no reason not to adapt it in some Central and
' Western African countries, where initiatives are already being taken in the domains of protected
  areas, wildlife management, sustainable forestry, etc, insome cases on a transboundary basis.

  SECONDARY ISSUES

  Linkage to other focal areas

  Namibian law and regulations are meant to define what conservancies are and what their rights
  and obligations are with respect o f Government and its agencies. These conservancies were
  initiated through a series o f "socio-ecological surveys" in 1993. The framework, which evolved,
  was published in the Gazette of the Republic of Namibia in 1996 (no. 1333 & no. 1446). The
  conservancy policy o f the Government has shown to be flexible in its approach, leaving to
  communities decisions o f how to use their income, how to agree on geographical limits with their
  neighbors' territory, etc. But has it fully resolved in each conservancy the crucial issue of land
  tenure, and has it left grazing for domestic stock on communal lands mainly with open access
  management systems? A similar question applies to the (exclusive?) ownership of wild flora,
  especially of highvalue wild plants with already existing or potential export value. This situation is
  rightly targeted by the project, which addresses the possibility o f rangeland degradation,
  overgrazing and possible unsustainable use of natural resources. The analysis of situations within
  the last five years would certainly be interesting for all stakeholders, and suggestions from the
  ground up worth studyingand passing on to members o f the conservancy network.

  On another point, enterprise development aspects could possibly gain from solutions adopted in
  Zimbabwe. The peculiar legal status of "CAMPFIRE Company" allows local communities at any
  level, even the Ward or the Vidco, to set up, register and runtheir own enterprises.

  Other beneficialor damaging environmentaleffects

  Multispecies approach of conservancies allows for more stable land-use systems, ensuring
  biodiversity conservation on a long term basis, in comparison with the fragility o f enterprises
  based on monospecific schemes, e.g. cattle industry.

  Multiple use approach gives greater security to conservancies, which can fall back on other
  activities, if one of them, such as tourism for instance, i s slowed due to externalities, such as
  internationaltravel hazard for example. Risks can be spread over:
   i.theprimarysector,suchaswildlifemeatandskinsandotherveldproducts,
  ii.thesecondarysector,suchashandicrafts,biltong,etc.
 iii.thetertiarysectorsuchastourism.

  The project should help local communities in obtaining better terms o f trade in all sectors. As a
  general rule, by helping conservancies to secure economic viability will also safeguard the
  resilience o f the ecosystems.


                                                  -115-

Degree of involvement of stakeholders in the project

Seen from a distance, the selection o f MET as the authorizing agency for the project i s obvious. A
"project office", under the auspices of MET, will be responsible for the project management: this
option looks sound. Appropriately, this project structure also plans to involve a wide range of
other stakeholders with expertise inthe various fields of activities covered by the ICEMA project.
Several advantages are seen in such an institutional arrangement outsourcing some o f the project
activities: (i)
              cost saving, (ii) out the burden, (iii)
                              sharing                       accountability of operating agencies, (iv)
sustainability of the project once ended, since the operating agencies already in place will still be
there, etc.

As a general observation, the project gives a lot of importance to the public sector (institutions).
Admittedly, the amount of funds granted to the administration components i s rightfully lower than
the budget allocatedto the conservancy components. However, it still appears comparatively quite
highfor a project advocating to promote and network communal andprivate sectors.

To my view, an institutional risk lies in the temptation for the Government agencies, or the
obligation imposedto the project office, boostedby the project support:
 i.to exert excessive control on conservancies, for instance invoking the "precautionary
     principle" to abusively restrict sustainable use o f resources, while not assuming the costs of
     wildlife andhabitat monitoring,
ii.torequirefromconservanciesexcessivereportingobligationswhichappeartooofteninthe
     PCD columns. To my experience, some Zimbabwean conservancies have been complaining for
     being harassedby bureaucratic enquiries, technical and economical questionnaires, etc.

To prevent such risks, more preliminary assumptions should appear in the PAD for guaranteeing
the beneficiaries to be able to express themselves in the most favorable context. Being fully
understood that conservancies will obviously have to strictly act within the legal context, they
should however not be constrained by a project framework promoting undue interference o f the
public sector inthe civil society (communal, associative and private). The consequences would not
only be counterproductive to the project itself, they may also eventually destabilize the blooming
conservancy concept. As recently showdstated by Richard Leakey (Leakey, 2001), former World
Bank funded wildlife projects in Kenya have demonstrated (i)the importance of such agreed
preliminary assumptions and (ii),    even more importantly, the necessity to respect them in the
implementationprocess, otherwise not only project setbacks but even negative impacts may result.

Capacity-building aspects

Experiences show that decentralization to the lowest level faces a critical constraint: lack of
capacity.

Proper techniques o f range & wildlife management already exist in Namibia and should be fully
utilized. Nevertheless, as pointed out in the PCD, some improvement may certainly be sought
after, The practice o f destocking and savings mechanisms in time o f severe drought may be


                                                - 116-

developed. It may also be appropriate to 1auncWdevelopspin-off added value small industries as
complementary sources o f income and employment for local development. Enterprise building,
accounting, cash flow awareness, as well as marketing experience and exchanging knowledge in
these domains i s needed by communities, as much as increasing their competence in range and
wildlife management, habitat restoration and enhancement, etc. As a particular example,
communal conservancies could receive appropriate training to negotiate by themselves (i)         their
hunting lease with concessionaires and safari operators & (ii)their harvest quota with the
administration.

InZimbabwe, the practice has proved successful for the central administration (i.e. DNPWM, the
Department o f National Parks and Wildlife Management) to entrust skilled conservancies with the
task o f safekeeping particular species o f national/global importance. So-called "National Game",
such as rhinoceros or wild dog, are handed over by budget-strapped National Parks, under heavy
poaching pressure, to intensively managed conservancies under better control. In Namibia, the
project could raise awareness (and build up the relevant professionalism) as to the role of
conservancies in safekeeping and care of rare or threatened species of national or global
importance.

Innovativeness of the project

With no doubt, innovativeness i s the prominent feature o f the project due to its support to the
conservancy model, which in itself i s an invention of the turno f the century, as far as conservation
o f biodiversity is concerned.

Another issue i s appropriate to be addressedhere, i.e. the responsibility granted to civil society to
assume a substantial and consistent role in wildlife conservation. Communal conservancies will
take it upon themselves to fulfill a duty usually ascribed to the public sector. This i s indeed a new
venture o f importancenot only to Namibia, but to the international community also.

Although not stated inthe PCD, the project remains inline with the CBD which is fully supportive
of any relevant innovations for conserving biodiversity, e.g. Box 8 (StratCgie Mondiale de la
Biodiversite, 1994):
0   "adopt new policies and accounting methods to encourage the conservation and equitable
    utilization of biodiversity;
0    ...develop innovative, decentralizedandreliablemeansto raiseandefficiently spendfunds;
0   sustain initiatives for conserving biodiversity inthe private sector."

References used

Adams, W. & D. Hulme, 2001. If community conservation i s the answer in Africa, what i s the
question? Olyx, Vol35 no3 July 2001: 193-200.

Ashley, C., 1998. Intangible matter: nonfinancial dividends o f CBNRM inNamibia. WWF, Living
ina FiniteEnvironment (LIFE)Programme.




                                                - 117-

Brown, C.J. & B.T.B. Jones, 1999. Common-property rangeland management in Namibia: the
conservancy model in communal areas. VIth. International Rangeland Congress Proceedings
VOl. 1*

Chardonnet, Ph., 2001. Nouveaux modkles de conservation de la biodoiversitk : les conservatoires
ou conservancies en Afrique. Fondation Intemationale pour la Sauvegarde de la Faune, Paris.
Nonpublik.

Cumming, D., 1999. Study on the Development o f Transboundary Natural Resource Management
Areas in Southem Africa-Environmental Context: Natural Resources, Land Use and
Conservation. Biodiversity Support Program, Washington, DC, USA.

Griffin, J., Cumming, D., D. Metcalfe, S., t'Sas-Rolfes, M., Singh, J., Chonguiqa, E., Rowen, M.
& J. Oglethorpe, 1999. Study on the Development of Transboundary Natural Resource
Management Areas in Southem Africa. Biodiversity Support Program, Washington, DC, USA.

Hackel, J., 1999. Community Conservation and the Future of Africa's Wildlife. Conservation
Biology, Vol. 13 n04, August 1999: 726-734.

Leakey, R., 2001. Wildlife Wars. Macmillan, UK. 319p.

Marker-Kraus, L., Kraus, D., D. Bamett, D. & S. Hurlbut, 1996. Cheetah Survival on Namibian
Farmlands. Cheetah Conservation Fund, Namibia. 85p.

Ministryof Environment and Tourism, Republic of Namibia, 2000. Huntingand Conservation in
Namibia. In: Quick Facts, Hunting and Conservation in Southem Africa, Millenium 2000. SCI
African Chapter.

Penzhorn, B.L. (ed.), 1994. The future role of conservancies inAfrica? Wildlife Monograph nO1.
DuToit Game Services, Onderstepoort. 54p.

Stander, P., Jaqece//au, Nisa hi,Tsisaba Dabe & Dam dabe, 1997. Non-consumptive utilisation
o f leopards: community conservation and ecotourism in practice. Proc. Of a Symp. On Lions and
Leopards as Game Ranch Animals, Onderstepoort, RSA, October 1997: 50-57.

Stratkgie Mondiale de la Biodiversitk, 1994. Edition franqaise publike par le Bureau des
Ressources Gknktiques et le ComitC franqais pour I'UICN. 2.59~.




                                              - 118-

Annex ll(b): Up-dated Response to STAP Technical Review (December 2003)

The STAP Review i s generally very supportive of the project rationale and particular innovative
approach and design inthe context of the conservancy movement of Namibia. A few issues have
been rightfully highlightedand some suggestions for improvement made. They have all been now
addressed in the present Project Appraisal Document. Responses to comments as well as
indications o f how and where improvementswhere made inthe Brief/PAD are providedbelow (in
italics).

Scientific and technical soundnessof the proiect

Para. 3: The STAP reviewer's listed additional articles of the CBD of relevance to
community-based conservation and sustainable utilization have been included in the Project
Brie$ (See B la, p. 5)

Para. 5: CBNRM has to comprise ,freehold and communal conservancies: The project as
additional support to the National CBNRM Program supports in principle linkages between
communal andfreehold conservancies. However, ICEMA targets only communal conservancies
although its component 3 provides for technical assistance to review the National CBNRM
program strategy and overall institutional set-up.

Para. 6: Definition of Conservancies : It needs to be clarij?ed that contrary to the STAP Review
comments that conservancies offer an opportunity for government agencies to hand-over
responsibility of managing wildlife outside State land the Namibian communal conservancies are
operating on State land. The proposed definitions of conservancies have been added to the
Project Brief (See A 1,p. 3) but slightly modified with regard to the commercial conservancies.
It is correct that both types of conservancies arepursuingfinancial and socio-economic goal. It
is therefore proposed to use the term `ffreehold'' conservancies instead of "commercial or as
suggestedprivate" ones.

Para. 7: Non-financial benefits o f CBNRM: The suggested benejts can befound in the Project
Brief under C 3 and are included in the conservancy screening tool.

Identification of Global Environmental Benefits

Para. 3: Taxa of critical importance and issues of global relevance: The listed examples have been
included in the Brief onp.5 under Bla.

Regional Context

Para. 2: SADC Transboundary NRM Areas: USAID's support to the project provides for close
linkages and synergies between theproposed GEFproject and the SADC Transboundary Project
in particularfor those conservancies that will be targeted in these respective areas .




                                              - 119-

Linkage to other focal areas

Para. 1: Land tenure in individual conservancies: This is clearly a critical and very important
issue and challenge for Namibia. The project component 3 aims to harmonize the legal and
policy framework for the national CBNRMprogram including a focus on land tenure and land
rights in Conservancies. During project preparation, a first pilot study on biodiversity
conservation and land-use has been jointly implemented with the Ministry of Environment and
Tourism and the Ministry of Lands Rehabilitation and Resettlement. This study has led to the
development of an initial project concept to elaborate a MET hosted WB/GEF supported MSP
(PESILUP) which is expected to concretize the recommendations made.

Degree o f involvement of stakeholders inthe proiect

Para. 3: Importance o f public sector: Obviously, there is a fine line between public and
non-public sector on which theproject will moveforward but it needs to be understood that a) in
order to achieve sustainability and the necessary legal and policy provisions including (land
tenure) the government needs to be involved and strengthened fin particular MET) and b) the
government funds are not sufficient to meet all demands.

Para. 4: Reporting requirements for conservancies: There is full agreement that conservancies
should not be overloaded with excessive and dijjficult reporting obligations. The previous
experiences in Namibia have shown that besides designing simpleprocedures, adequate capacity
building of CBNRM support organizations leads to less administrative procedures and
cost-effective, demand-driven services to conservancies.

Capacity-Building; Aspects

Para. 3: Entrust skilled conservancies with task of safekeeping special species of global
importance: Theproject fully supports the idea of raising awareness among conservancies in this
regard. Actually, during preparation, a first workshop on safekeeping rhinos within communal
conservancies took place in Damaraland in November 2001 with the participation of all key
stakeholders (government, NGOs, conservancy representatives, donor programs, NACSO).

Innovativeness o f this Proiect

Para. 3: CBD articles relative to innovations for conserving biodiversity: The relevant articles
have been added onpage 5 (Bra).




                                             -  120-

 Additional Annex 12: Policy framework for NationalCBNRM Program
NAMIBIA: IntegratedCommunity-Based Ecosystem Management (ICEMA)




                                c




                                 -121-

                                           REPUBLICOF NAMIBIA




                             MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENTAND TOURISM




   THE CURRENT LEGAL AND POLICY FRAMEWORK FOR THE NATIONAL
                                CBNRM PROGRAMME INNAMIBIA

The Ministry o f Environment and Tourism inparticular, and the Government of the Republic
of Namibia ingeneral, have inplace a comprehensive range o f legislative and policy initiatives
designed to support and guide the full implementation o f Namibia's national programme on
community-based natural resource management towards its objective o f broadening and
including the participation of communities and other stakeholders in the conservation,
management and utilization o f its natural resources. The list reviewedbelow i s not inclusive of
all national legislation and policies supporting CBNRM, they nevertheless represent a broad
sample o f existing initiatives, especially with respect to the framework developed by the MET.


1.0 CONSTITUTIONAL FOUNDATION OF CBNRM

        Namibia i s one of very few countries in the world that enshrines the concept of
        environmental protection in its Constitution. Article 95 (1) of the Constitution states
        the following:     "The State shall `actively promote and maintain the welfare o f the
        people by adopting policies aimed at the following: Maintenance o f ecosystems,



                                             - 122  -

      essential ecological processes and biological diversity of Namibia and utilization of
      living natural resources on a sustainable basis for the benefit o f all Namibians, both
      present and future". The National Community-based Natural Resource Management
      Program (CBNRM) i s coordinated by the Ministry of Environment and Tourism
      (MET) and its mission is to "provide and coordinate information and technical support
      communities and stakeholders for sustainable natural resource management and
      utilization to improve the livelihoods o f all Namibians and to conserve biodiversity".
      This mission is built upon the foundation o f the national Constitution that fully
      recognizes the importance of environmental protection and the prudent use and
      management of our natural resources for the benefit o f all Namibians both in the
      present and future.

      The MET in accordance with the Constitution has adopted, implemented and will
      continue to develop policies to enhance and protect Namibia's fragile environment
      while producing economic benefits for Namibians in the present and the future. The
      Ministry sees the National CBNRM program as an important mechanism for
      implementing goals and policies to fulfill the constitutional obligation of utilizing
      natural resources for the benefit of all Namibians including those living in rural
      communities and who were previously disadvantaged.

      Recognizing the present narrow focus o f CBNRM on conservancies, the MET as a
      matter o f policy supports the broadening o f the scope o f the CBNRM programme
      away from its initial emphasis on conservancies and wildlife tourism to include all
      relevant aspects o f community-based resource management, e.g. including water,
      medicinal plants, agriculture and rural livelihood development and small scale mining
      among others. To this end efforts are being made to integrate other government
      ministries and agencies into the management and coordination o f the national CBNRM
      programme.

2.0 LEGISLATIONAND POLICIES INSUPPORT OF THE NATIONAL CBNRM
PROGRAM

      The legal basis of the national CBNRM programme is grounded within existing
      legislation as well as official policy documents o f the MET. There i s also a number of
      draft legislation and policy initiatives that are pending that will provide additional
      support to the national program.

      The principal legislation governing the operation o f the national CBNRM programme
      and in particular the conservancy programme is the Nature the Nature Conservation
      Amendment Act o f 1996 (Act No. 5 o f 1996) and the Nature Conservation Ordinance
      (Ordinance 4 o f 1975). Inaddition, legislation such as the Game Products Trust Fund
      Act of 1997 (Act No. 7 of 1997), the Namibia Tourism Board Act (No. 21 of 2000),
      the Forest Act (No. 12) o f 2001 and the Namibia Environmental InvestmentFundAct
      (No. 13) o f 2001 contains provisions in support o f or o f consequence to the CBNRM
      program.

      Policies o f the MET governing andor affecting the National CBNRM Program include
      Namibia's 12 Point Plan for Integrated and Sustainable Environmental Management,
      the Wildlife Management, Utilization and Tourism in Communal Areas, Conservation
      o f Biotic Diversity and Habitat Protection, Land Use Planning, Tourism White Paper,
      Environmental Assessment and the draft Parks and Wildlife Management Bill.

2.1 Nature ConservationAmendment Act (Act 5 of 1996) and the NatureConservation
Ordinance(Ordinance4 of 1975)

      The Nature Conservation Ordinance o f 1975, as amended in 1996 is the basis upon
      which wildlife conservation and matters related thereto were developed during the last
      thirty years.    It covers areas such as game parks, nature reserves, wild animals,
      problem animals, inland fisheries and indigenous plants. The amendment of 1996
      broadened the scope to include the establishment of conservancies and wildlife
      councils within communal areas. This amendment returned the rights over wildlife and
      tourism to occupants of communal lands but did not address other rights over
      biodiversity and other resources.

      Currently most of the areas within the ambit o f the Nature Conservation Ordinance of
       1975 are out of date and need to be revised and or repealed. This i s currently being
      done through the drafting o f a Parks and Wildlife Management Bill. The draft inland
      fisheries Bill, referred to elsewhere, which when approved will replace that section of
      the Nature Conservation Ordinance dealing with fish and fisheries in inland waters.
      The environmentalmanagement andthe waste management and pollution control Bills
      will cover areas such as environmental assessment and waste-management, not
      covered under the Ordinance. The overall objective of these initiatives i s to put in
      place a comprehensive legislative framework aimed at the long-term conservation and
      protection of biodiversity and the environment within Namibia utilizing mechanisms
      such as the national CBNRM program.

2.2 The Game ProductsTrust Fund(Act No. 7 of 1997)

      The Game Products Trust Fund(GPTF) was established as an Act o f Parliament with
      the objective o f raising and allocating funds to conservancies, wildlife councils and
      protected areas to finance projelts and activities for wildlife conservation and
      management as well as rural livelihood development and resolution o f conflict
      situations between wildlife and people. The main source o f revenues for the GPTF i s
      the proceeds from the sale o f ivory stockpiles and other game products, as well as
      hunting concessions on a periodic basis. The GPTF is also authorized to raise funds
      from appropriations by Parliament through the national budget, from domestic and
      foreign benefactors and from interest from investments. The conservancies through
      the CBNRM program have been and will continue to be the main beneficiaries o f the
      fund.




                                          - 124-

2.3 Namibia Tourism Board Act (Act No. 21 of 2000)

      The Namibia Tourism Board (NTB) Act established the NTB to promote the
      marketing o f the tourism industry locally and overseas.       In doing so the NTB is
      authorized to register and prescribe facilities designed for tourist accommodation and
      to charge levies on individuals and enterprises operating within the tourism sector to
      finance its activities. Tourism enterprises associatedwith the CBNRM Programme are
      subject to regulation by the NTB, and are included in the marketing and promotional
      activities of the NTB.        Community-based tourism enterprises will have to be
      registered, pay registration fees and an accommodation levy. It i s not anticipated that
      the operation and financial viability of such enterprises will be compromised through
      the payment of such fees and levies.

2.4 The Forest Act (No. 12 of 2001)

      The Directorate of Forestry of the MET is responsible for implementation of the
      Forest Act of 2001 that replaced the Forest Act o f 1968. The new Act deals with
      issues such as administration o f forest reserves and their management, environmental
      protection, utilization o f forest products and enforcement o f the law. Under forest
      management, the Act states that its purpose is to conserve soil and water resources,
      maintain biological diversity and produce forest products in a manner that will protect
      and enhance the natural environment.          This will require the establishment and
      maintenance o f forest inventories and the production and implementation of forest
      management plans. Restrictions are to be placed on harvesting of forest products,
      hunting, mining, construction, road building, agriculture, livestock grazing and soil
      removal within forest and nature reserves. Some o f these provisions will also apply to
      conservancies when and where forested areas are included within their boundaries.
      Additionally, the Forest Act makes provisions for the declaration o f Community
      Forests where management responsibility as well as the rights to the benefits from such
      forests are granted to communities. These communities could also be the same as
      represented inthe conservancies.

      With respect to environmental protection, the Minister of Environment and Tourism i s
      empowered to declare and/or establish protected areas after consultation with the
      Minister o f Lands, Resettlement and Rehabilitation, the Minister o f Agriculture, Water
      and Rural Development and other interested parties including conservancies where
      relevant. The Act also allows for the creation and alteration o f forest reserves, forest
      management areas and nature reserves. A nature reserve would be the highest level o f
      protection to be afforded under the law.      The created protected area will be for the
      protection o f soil, water resources and biological diversity. Vegetation within or close
      to waterways and on sand dunes will be protected by restrictions to be placed on the
      cutting and removal in such areas.

2.5 The Namibia EnvironmentalInvestment FundAct (Act No. 13 of 2001)



                                           -125-

      The Ministry o f Environment and Tourism (MET) and its partner organizations
      recognized that the government's budgetary resources are limited and are being sought
      after by a large and varied constituency. These agencies concluded that the financing
      o f environment and natural resources activities cannot be met solely from the public
      coffers. The NDPl identifiedthe need for new and innovative financing outside of
      government control and specifically made provisions for the establishment o f an
      Environmental Investment Fundto secure long-term financial support for the activities
      and programs designedto protect Namibia's fragile environment while contributingto
      its economic development. Act 13 of 2001 was therefore adopted to make provision
      for the establishment o f the Environmental Investment Fund of Namibia (EIF) to raise
      financial resources within and outside of Namibia to provide support to environmental
      and natural resource protection and management programs inNamibia. It i s a statutory
      and independent entity outside the public service and has clear and separate roles and
      function from any GRN body or entity.

      Although not the only beneficiaries, the EIF would be able to provide for financial
      support to conservancies and community-based natural resource management and
      tourism operations inthe rural areas. Funds for the EIF will be raised from local levies
      and fees, from the proceeds o f investments, from foreign donors and from long-term
      endowments set up by the board from its resources and through agreements with
      international donors. I t will support the conservation and protection of environment
      and natural resource, preserve the national biological diversity and provide economic
      support to the poorest sectors o f society.     The EIF will only provide support to
      projects and activities that actively demonstrate and support this concept.


2.5 Namibia's   12 Point Plan for Integrated and Sustainable Environmental
Management

      The 12 Point Plan was approved in 1993 as a five-year management plan for the
      Directorate o f Environmental Affairs (DEA) and subsequently became the basis upon
      which the environmental and natural resource conservation policies of the MET have
      been developed and implemented. The Ministry i s responsible on a national level for
      environmental planning, coordination and protection. Within this broad framework its
      mandate includes strategic planning and coordination o f environmental conservation,
      establishment o f environmental and conservation concerns within national policy,
      coordination o f land use planning and community-based conservation programs, and
      the development o fpolicies, plans and legislationto give legitimacy to the above areas.


      The objectives o f this planinclude promotion o f sustainable development, maintenance
      o f ecological life support systems, protection of biotic diversity, review and
      improvement o f environmental legislation and enforcement, and training and education
      of Namibians in environmental issues and management. This i s a broad framework
      document which gives guidance on policy options for environmental planning and


                                           -126-

       management, conservation and institutional and international relationships but it i s
       dated and inneedo f review and updating.

 2.6        Conservationof Biotic Diversityand HabitatProtection

       The Conservation o f Biotic Diversity and Habitat Protection Policy was approved by
       MET in 1994. It recognizes that the loss of biological diversity will reduce stocks o f
       natural capital including gene pools, species richness, habitats and ecosystems and
       negatively alter the landscape and its ability to sustain people's livelihoods. This was
       the situation in most o f the communal areas that are now the geographic location o f
       most conservancies.

       The policy requires the MET to ensure that protection i s afforded to species and
       subspecies, ecosystems and natural life support systems. Strategies for implementation
       o f this policy include the conduct o f research and monitoring activities, support for and
       participation in the prudent management of natural resources, enactment and
       enforcement o f legislation, and cooperation with other institutions and agencies
       involved in biological diversity and habitat protection actions.                 Effective
       implementation of this policy must include the conduct o f activities within present and
       future conservancies.

2.7 WildlifeManagement,Utilizationand Tourismin CommunalAreas

       The MET in 1995 approved the Policy on Wildlife Management, Utilization and
       Tourism in Communal Areas. This policy and the policy on the establishment o f
       conservancies were also approved by Cabinet in 1995 and are therefore national
       policies. The Nature Conservation Amendment Act (Act N o 5 o f 1996) referred to
       previously, and which provides the legal authority for the establishment o f
       conservancies was a direct outcome o f this policy.

       The mainobjectives of the policy are:

a. To establish an economic system for the management utilization o f wildlife and other
renewable natural resources for the people living on State-owned communal lands;
b. To redress historical disadvantage byprovidingthe rights available to private commercial
farmers to those living on communal lands; and
c. Allow communities living on State land to operate tourism and other ventures on these
lands andtherefore benefit financially from wildlife.

       The policy was designed to broaden the economic opportunities available to previously
       disadvantaged peoples and to provide incentives for the development o f more efficient
       resource management options for water and land resources. The rights bestowed on
       the conservancies are however limited to control over the wildlife i.e. game mammals
       and birds and not over all the biological resources. This would in turn result in the
       protection o f the wildlife by the beneficiaries and therefore a reduction in the level o f


                                           -  127 -

        poaching. The benefits to be derived from policy implementation include increased
        wildlife numbers, improvement of habitat, reduced incidence of poaching and stock
        theft, and greater cash income and profits.

2.8 The TourismWhite Paper and the Tourism Policy

        Cabinet approved a White Paper on Tourism in March o f 1994. This Paper was
        developed by the Ministry of Environment and Tourism and reflected the main
        findings, conclusions and recommendations contained in the National Tourism
        Development Plan for 1993 to 1997. In 1999, the MET produced a draft of its
        tourism policy which when approved by Cabinet should become the official policy for
        guiding the development of the industry from the perspective of the public sector.
        This draft policy is currently under further discussion and review by the various
        interested parties before it would be submitted to Cabinet.

        The strategic aim of the policy i s to develop tourism into a central economic activity,
        generating income and employment on a sustainable basis with due consideration of
        the environmental, social and cultural issues. In the strategic objectives o f the White
        Paper, it was stated that tourism utilized a wide range o f natural resources, which,
        with the exception o f water, are inabundance inthe country. Government is to ensure
        that developments within the industry take place in a careful manner with attention
        being paid to the scale and location of developments.

2.9 Community-BasedNaturalResource Management

        The MET, recognizing that tourism could bring social, economic and conservation
        benefits to previously disadvantaged populations in communal areas, established and
        approved its Community-Based Natural Resources (CBNRM) Policy in 1995. This
        policy returned the rights to wildlife or game species to the conservancies and their
        members but did not do the same for biodiversity as a whole. Under the current policy
        the Ministry is obligated to:

a. actively provide opportunities for rural communities, local people and the informal sector
to increase their involvement inthe tourism industry;
b. create the legal mechanisms and incentives to ensure greater opportunities for rural
communities, local people and the informal sector to benefit from tourism activities on their
land;
c. ensure that no development takes place without the participation of the people to be
affected;
d. encourage cooperationbetweenthe formal and informal tourism sectors ina socially
responsible and sustainable manner; and
e. ensure that development o f the community-based tourism sector i s environmentally
sustainable.

        The use of conservancies as a tool to implement community-based tourism and



                                            - 128-

     involving the previously disadvantaged communities in the management of natural
     resources is specified as a policy objective. This will involve more and more the use of
     lands adjacent to or within the boundaries of national parks, with implications, both
     positive and negative, for biological diversity utilization and protection. Additionally,
     the policy proposes to establish a framework for the competitive participation o f the
     private sector inthe operation of protected areas on State lands based on the principle
     of "managed environmental impact".

     The Community-Based Tourism Policy required that the needs and aspirations of rural
     communities, local people and the informal sector must be pro-actively incorporated
     into tourism legislation and regulations.       It further required that private sector
     involvement in tourism activities on communal land should include and benefit local
     residents and provide incentives for the conservation to those that bear the cost o f
     wildlife and tourism. The policy requires that all plans for development must conform
     to the requirements o f the Namibian EIA process and must be responsible inthe use o f
     water and other resources.

2.10     LandUse Planning

     The policy document, "Land-use Planning: Towards Sustainable Development", was
     approved and published by MET in 1994. The policy addresses issues related to land
     tenure and physiographic landforms, namely, communal land, privately owned
     commercial farmland, proclaimed State land, urban areas and wetland systems. The
     policy objective i s to encourage the rational and integrated planning o f land use based
     on sound ecological principles in the rural areas of Namibia including conservancies.
     It seeks to establish suitable participatory structures to enable local communities to
     participate indecision makingandto take responsibility for the management o f natural
     resources on the land they occupy in order to generate maximum benefits to the
     community.

     The guiding principle of the policy requires that the conservation and management o f
     the natural resource on communal land be community-based.            The process should
     involve extensive consultation with and participation of the community with the
     ultimate objective of self-sustainability o f the community-based management system.
     The development o f the conservancy system and the attendant legislative process to
     support them i s a manifestation o f the successful implementation o f this policy in
     achieving community-based protection o f some o f the natural resources, namely
     wildlife or game, on communal land.




                                         - 129-

      The policy also seeks to encourage the rational and integrated planning and
      management o f wetland systems for the preservation o f biological diversity, the
      maintenance of natural life support systems and sustainable resource use. It requires
      the establishment of a national inventory and quantitative assessment of wetland
      resources, the identification of the benefits and values o f wetlands and the regulated
      use o f their flora and fauna. I t further requires that proper environmental assessments
      be undertaken before and duringthe execution of developmental projects on wetlands.
      Where wetlands exist within the borders o f conservancies then this policy will become
      relevant.

2.11 EnvironmentalAssessment (EA) Policy and Draft EnvironmentalManagement
      Act (EMA)

      The MET in 1995, following a period o f extensive consultations with other Ministries,
      NGOs and the private sector, approved the Environmental Assessment Policy. It
      recognizes that the development o f Namibia i s dependent on the use o f its natural
      resource base and that such use could lead to environmental degradation. The policy
      was subsequently approved by the Cabinet as a national policy.

      The policy requires that Namibia maintain its ecosystems and related ecological
      processes, especially those relating to water supply, food production, health, tourism
      and sustainable development. The Directorate o f Environmental Affairs o f the MET
      currently performs the tasks associatedwith the implementation o f the EA Policy.

      Following extensive consultations with interested parties, the draft Environmental
      Management Bill was prepared to give legislative effect to the policy. It i s now well
      advanced in the development process and should be passed into law within the next
      twelve months.

      The guiding principle o f the draft legislation is that all projects and programs,
      regardless o f ownership, be subjected to compliance with the environmental
      assessment procedures that are in place. The cost o f compliance with the process i s
      that o f the owner o f the project or program. The end result o f the process should be
      an agreement on monitoring and compliance with the mitigation measures requiredto
      reduce anticipatednegative impacts on the environment by the proposed activity while
      maximizing the development benefits to accrue there-from. Conservancies and other
      CBNRM implementation mechanisms will be required to comply with the EA Policy
      andthe EMA once it comes into force.

3.0   OTHER GRNLEGISLATIONAND POLICIES WITH RESPECT TO CBNRM

3.1 NationalAgriculture Policy

      The Ministry o f Agriculture, Water and Rural Development (MAWRD) in 1995


                                             - 130-

       approvedthe National Agriculture Policy. This i s a Ministry level policy but i s national
       inscope. The objectives ofthe NationalAgriculture Policy include:

   Achievement o f rates of growth for production and farm income above that of rate o f
growth o f the population;
   Increase inrural standard of living, profitability and investment inagriculture;
   Promotion o f sustainable utilization of land and other natural resources; and
   Contribute to balanced rural and regional development basedon comparative advantage.

       The National Agricultural Policy undertook to review legislation and regulations
       concerning agriculture and natural resources and plans to repeal, amend or enact
       legislation in order to make them consistent with the policy and comply with
       international agreements.     The government has pledged to promote the use o f
       environmentally friendly technologies such as organic fertilizers, integrated pest
       management, draught and animal power and bush control. The policy encourages the
       participation o f a wide cross-section of the population inagriculture and environmental
       issues through the application of environmental assessments and regulatory
       frameworks and monitoring of projects in aquaculture,                agro-forestry,   land
       development, eco-tourism and activities to combat desertification.              The full
       enforcement of the EIA policy of the MET i s endorsed.

       To further promote sustainable agriculture through the protection o f water resources,
       the policy proposed a review o f the Conservation and Utilization of Agricultural
       Resources Act and other relevant legislation relating to pesticide use, chemical
       fertilizers, quarantine and phytosanitary certification. Social, community and farm
       forestry will be promoted and laws and regulations relating to the use and protection
       o f forest resources enforced. The policy addresses rangeland carrying capacities and
       strategies for arable land use are to be examined in both commercial and communal
       areas and farmers advised as to appropriate sustainable land use strategies based on
       geographic, climatic and other factors.

3.2 National Water Policy

       Cabinet approved the National Water Policy in 2001. The policy i s based on the
       foundation that water resources and their use and management are part of the national
       economic and social development framework and should be hlly integrated therein. I t
       views water as being essential in the human life process, food production and
       agriculture, industry and the ecosystems o f the natural environment. The management
       of the water resources should balance the allocation effectively between these various
       uses and users.

       The use and management of water resources i s to be integrated with the conservation
       and protection o f the resource through environmentally sustainable use o f the water to
       enhance economic wellbeing.        The policy adopts a cost-effective approach to the
       pricing o f water as a mechanism for its conservation. The prices charged will take into


                                            -131  -

        account the financial cost o f water, its opportunity cost and the consequences of
        environmental degradation.     It will however be flexible enough to ensure that all
       members of the society have access to a minimum amount of water regardless of
       economic status.        Economic development projects and activities,           including
       conservancies will be required to account for the use and management of water and
        the effect these actions will have on the water cycle, equity and the protection o f the
       natural environment. Legislationi s currently being drafted to give effect to the policy.

3.3 NationalPopulation Policy for Sustainable Human Development

       Cabinet approved the national population policy for sustainable human development in
        1996. The goal of the policy i s to contribute to the improvement o f the standard of
       living and quality of life of the people of Namibia. It seeks to reduce the rate of
       growth to 3 percent by 2006 and further to 2 percent by 2025.

       To achieve its goals and objectives, the policy sets seven targets and seven
       multi-sectoral strategic options. The strategy o f Population Information, Education
        and Communication will promote environmental education with emphasis on the
        efficient management o f natural resources within the education system and the
       population at-large. It calls on the MET, MAWRD and the Ministry of Mines and
       Energy (MME) to undertake a number o f specific actions relatedthe strategy.

       The role of the Ministry of Environment and Tourism includes the following:

.   incorporate environmental education into the national population education programme
    design and implementenvironmental education programs for the out-of-school population
    disseminate information on sustainable use o f Environment and Natural Resourcesinrural
communities
    discourage the use o f wood for extensive fencing o f land
    strengthen the community-basedtourism industry(including conservancies)

        The National Population Policy aims to achieve proper management and sustainable
       utilization o f the environmental resources through the reduction of unsustainable
        consumption and production patterns and the development o f appropriate policies and
       programs. The national CBNRM program conforms to such policy objective.

3.4 Regional PlanningAnd Development Policy

        Cabinet approved the Regional Planning and Development Policy in 1997 and its
       implementation i s under the guidance o f the National Planning Commission. This
       policy was designed to be an integral part o f the national socio-economic policy and
        strategy aimed at achieving national unity, full participation o f Namibians in the
        development process while reducing differences betweenthe regions.
       The Policy seeks to establish a comprehensive and rational regional planning
        framework for the decentralization process o f the national government, facilitate


                                           -132 -

      improved coordination between regional development institutions and activities and
      put in place the financial and economic instruments necessary for attaining regional
      goals and objectives.

      The Regional and Local Councils are given authority over the administration and
      management o f resources, including natural resources in the regions.         Functions
      related to natural resources that will come under control o f regional and local
      authorities include rural water development, management and control o f communal
      lands, conservation and forest development and management. The resources within a
      particular region are used primarily to satisfy the basic needs and enhance the
      productive base o f the region. Priority i s given under this policy to agriculture,
      development of small-scale industries and the linking of rural and urban areas within
      regions.

      Decentralization, properly managed and implemented could have a positive impact on
      the protection and conservation of biodiversity. Management of resources by the
      people who live in the region or community enables the development o f a sense of
      ownership. Ownership generally fosters a better standard o f care and protection than
      lack of ownership.     This can be seen via the development o f game numbers on
      privately owned farms compared to lack o f a clear ownership situation as exists on
      communal areas. This i s now changing within the communal areas following the
      establishment o f conservancies.   The conservancies and their members now have
      specific rights over the game resources on their land although not having total control
      over biodiversity as a whole.

      The regional Planning and Development Policy recognizes the maintenance and
      augmentation o f renewable and non-renewable natural resources as a priority for
      livelihood maintenance. The increasing degradation o f agricultural lands, pastures,
      range-lands, forests and other vegetation cover has required the policy to pay close
      attention to soil, water and forest management as development tools. Among the
      strategies proposed are, the provision and/or use o f substitute or alternative products,
      reduced population growth and the use o f technical management systems such as soil
      conservation and controlled grazing cycles. The carrying capacity of the land as it
      relates to population, agricultural production and livestock production i s to be
      monitored on a regular basis and adjustments made as necessary.

      The demarcation of the regions, like the protected areas system, was based mainly on
      geo-political considerations and not necessarily on the scientific identification of
      biological diversity and the need to protect them. Where protection i s required for
      particular habitats that span the boundaries o f regions then a cooperative approach,
      including inter-regional conservancies would be better than the exercise o f regional
      sovereignty.

3.5 DraftInlandFisheriesBill (1999)



                                        - 133 -

      Inland fisheries are currently regulated under Chapter V o f the Nature Conservation
      Ordinance of 1975. The Draft Inland Fisheries Bill (1999) when passed into law would
      allow for the updating and the development of new policies to conserve and
      sustainably utilize the inland fisheries resources o f the country. Legal and regulatory
      authority for inland fisheries would shift from the MET to the Ministry of Fisheries and
      Marine Resources (MFMR).

      The Bill would provide for the protection and conservation o f aquatic ecosystems
      while promoting the use of the fisheries resources contained therein for present and
      future generations. Cooperation with neighboring countries in the management and
      conservation of these resources in shared waterways would also be provided for.
      Fishingusingdestructive methods such as chemicals, explosives and electrical devices
      will be prohibited. The introduction and/or transfer of non-indigenous fish species as
      well as the importation or export of live fish i s to be prohibited.

3.7   NationalLandsPolicy

      The Ministry o f Lands, Resettlement and Rehabilitation promulgated its National
      Lands Policy in 1998. The policy aims to promote the sustainable use of land as a
      natural resource. The owners andor occupiers o f land including conservancies, and
      regardless of type o f tenure, would have rightsto the exploitation of renewable natural
      resources such as wildlife, water, fish, forest resources and natural rangelands.

      The environmental issues related to land distribution and use in urban areas are
      addressed via the use of the environmental impact assessment mechanism. Financial
      and tax incentives are also to be utilized to promote the use of alternative energy
      sources and the protection, promotion and rehabilitation o f existing natural
      environments. The policy further states that failure to maintain sustainable use or the
      causing o f any other environmental damage could be cause for the cancellation o f
      titles.

      In the rural areas, the National Land Policy assigns the responsibility for land use
      planning and natural resource management related issues to the Land Use and
      Environmental Boards which are required to consult with the Regional LandBoardon
      issues related to landrights.

3.8 CommunalLandReformAct (Act No. 5 of 2002)

      The Communal Land Reform Act (Act No. 5 o f 2002) seeks to regulate the land
      tenure relationship between the State and those occupying communal land owned by
      the State.   It recognizes the existence o f communal area conservancies and by
      extension the role they play in conservation.          The Act makes provision for the
      conversion o f traditional rights to leasehold rights for periods of up to 99 years. This
      extensive period o f tenure and the secure rights associated with leasehold will be a
      positive business incentive for conservancies.


                                          - 134-

    Provision i s also made in the Act for regulations to be made by the Minister of Lands
    concerning matters such as prevention of soil erosion, protection o f pastoral resources,
    control of grazing stock, prospecting and miningoperations, the buildingo f roads and
    the use of water courses. These regulations, if made, will require coordination with
    the MAWRD, MME and MWTC as the areas to be covered also fall within the
    portfolio of these ministries.

    The Communal Land Reform Act recognizes the existence o f conservancies and offers
    a measure o f protection against arbitrary granting of leases on existing conservancy
    land. The members o f the conservancies as well as the conservancy itself are able to
    apply for leases on existing conservancy land but the leases will not be granted if it
    changes significantly the agreed management plans and resource use of the
    conservancy. The Communal Land Reform Act will definitely change the status o f
    land tenure will also have positive implications for the conservancies and the
    protection of biodiversity within them.

    The makeup o f the Communal LandBoards makes provision for membership for one
    representative from MET and for one representative from the conservancies within the
    relevant traditional area.

3.9 Prospecting and Mining in Protected Areas and NationalMonuments

    The Policy on Prospecting and Mining in Protected Areas and National Monuments
    was approved in 1999 by the MET, MME and the National Monuments Council as a
    direct result of the growing demand by mining companies to carry out exploration and
    mininginprotectedareas and national monuments. The objective of the policy is to
    promote sustainable development by guiding prospecting and mining in the protected
    areas and national monuments and draws its authority from currently enacted or
    planned legislation, institutions and administrative requirements.

    The policy recognizes that the designated protected areas (approximately 14% o f
    Namibia) contain potentially significant mineral resources that could contribute to the
    national economic development process. The growing tourism industry, including
    conservancies, also utilizes the resources contained within these areas. Unregulated
    mineral exploitation, as happened in the past, could result in significant negative
    environmental impacts including loss o f biological diversity and destruction of the
    tourism industry. The policy therefore will permit controlled prospecting and mining
    under conditions that will allow economic benefits while protecting the natural
    environment.

    Currently, the Nature Conservation Ordinance of 1975 and the National Monuments
    Act of 1969 place certain restrictions on access to and use o f protected areas. The
    policy allows prospecting and mining for certain minerals, elements and rocks
    providing that such i s inthe national interest and conforms to the Mineral (Prospecting


                                        - 135-

     and Mining) Act of 1992 and any future legislation on the environment.            The
     attachment o f environmental agreements to licenses, once properly monitored and
     enforced, should ensure that biological diversity and the environment i s protected
     through the adoption and implementation of proper mitigationmeasures before, during
     and after the prospectingand miningoperations.


4.0 ICEMA contribution to implementation of the legal and policy framework for
     Namibia's CBNRM programme

     The ICEMA project consists o f two main pillars to support the implementation of the
     legal and policy framework:

     1. The ICEMA project will lead to increased social and economic well-being of rural
     areas, especially those living in communal lands by broadening the resource base and
     promoting ecological sound management of natural resources through sustainable and
     economically viable CBNRM activities inthe identified areas. The project will support
     the institutionalization of the approaches and practical service delivery to the local
     community in the areas identified and into the overall national CBNRM initiatives.
     Central to ICEMA will be the generation of tangible benefits linkedto the sustainable
     management of resources, including the development o f income resource use schemes,
     e.g. through community lodges, and other tourism related activities as well as various
     natural resource-based enterprises. This is targeted to enhance the environment sector
     to play a meaningful role in the eradication o f rural poverty and employment creation
     as set out inthe national development objective.

     2. Integrated Community-Based Ecosystem Management presents an opportunity to
     take advantage o f existing and up-coming future cooperation agreements to fully
     explore and review policies and legislation in support of the national CBNRM
     programme. Therefore, ICEMA will assist the Ministry o f Environment and Tourism
     to review the entire policy and legislative framework with the intention of updating
     those that need updating and the development of new initiatives based on changing
     circumstances. Particular attention will be paid to the Nature Conservation Ordinance
     and its proposed successor the Parks and Wildlife Management Bill as well as the
     Environment Management Bill and policy on Mining and Prospecting in Protected
     Areas. More coordination of policy initiatives with respective GRN ministries and
     agencies will also help to broaden the framework and allow coordination between
     national authorities for the good of the program.

     In addition, the Ministry of Environment and Tourism is committed to ensure the
     sustainability o f CBNRM activities after the ICEMA. Therefore MET'Sstrategy i s to
     set-up institutions capable o f sourcing fund and administers project finances aimed at
     assisting community initiatives in the broad context o f natural resource management.
     The EIF will serve as a local financial mechanism responsible for the mobilization o f
     financial resources for the CBNRM activities. The EIF will then be a resource


                                         - 136-

mobilizing institution in support of CBNRM through securing long-term fundingbase
for various conservation activities inNamibia.

Linkages achievable through ICEMA with other stakeholder activities

Assistance from GEF through the World Bank will help to consolidate progress made
thus far in CBNRM in Namibia, and bring longer-term stability in the programme by
enhancing MET'Sabilities inthe fields identified. The GEF support fills a serious gap
inthe current funding framework for CBNRM by providingthe requested support to
MET that no other donor is currently providing. So far, there exists a range of donor
funded initiatives inconservancy development, community based tourism development
and related fields, either directly through MET or NGOs. The principal support has
thus far come through the USAID LIFE project and the EU-funded tourism
development programme. Further assistance will be vigorously sought to ensure
co-financing from various sources. There is increasing interest from the donor
community to support various CBNRM activities in Namibia. These include, among
others, Denmark, Finland, France (through its intended co-financing of ICEMA),
Germany, and the United States of America.

The Ministry of Environment and Tourism fully acknowledges the outstanding
contributions made by NGOs and other agencies in the CBNRM field, within the
overall policy framework for CBNRM as established by Government. ICEMA is,
however, designed to be a project to be implemented by MET. NGOs are therefore
not included in the management o f this project, although MET intends to outsource
non-core functions concerning CBNRM to the NGO community as well as the private
sector or other institutions as appropriate. The project was designed making use o f
inputs from the NGO community. Inthis respect, the preparatory work for this project
has been beneficial in clarifying priorities and relationships amongst the different role
players.




                                     -137-

             AdditionalAnnex 13: Implementationand FundingArrangements
        NAMIBIA: IntegratedCommunity-BasedEcosystem Management(ICEMA)

1.Proiectimplementation:

Project office: The overall project implementation will fall under the responsibility o f the Project
Office (PO) to be created in the Ministry of Environment and Tourism (MET), under the
authority o f its Permanent Secretary (PS). The PO will be headed by a Project Office Coordinator
and will also comprise qualified staff to be recruited for financial and procurement management,
and other technical experts, in addition to normal support staff. MET Directorates (DSS, DoF,
DPWM, DOTand DEA) will guide technical aspects of the activities according to their areas of
technical expertise. All core positions (Project Office Coordinator, Procurement Officer,
Accounting officer) will be staffed before project effectiveness. The PO provides technical
support for all day to day activities o f project implementation. This includes coordination o f all
project planning (work plans, etc.), and execution o f all procurement and financial management
and project reporting. It will provide secretariat services (meeting organization, agenda, etc.) to
the MET/ICEMA Steering Committee. The PO will also coordinate project performance
monitoring. It will be directly responsible also for accepting, reviewing, and awarding sub-project
proposals under the CFF; and providing oversight o f the sub-project funds awarded to individual
conservancies. The PO will have a part-time M&E Specialist attached to it, tasked with
coordinating M&E activities associated with the project. The M&E Specialist will be available to
all MET Directorates to assist in implementation of M& Activities. The PO will also establish,
maintain and coordinate access to the Technical and Scientific Advisory Roster o f experts. The
PO will support WB supervision activities, including visiting missions, through logistical
assistance.
French ICEMA co-funding to this component will strengthen the Project Office with a High
Value Animal Species Team (HVAS) (one national and one international expert) and with a High
Value Plant Species Team (HVPS) (one national and one international expert).
MET/ICEMA Steering Committee and Directorates: MET will be responsible for ensuring the
smooth and efficient implementation o f the project's various technical programs. Project guidance
and intra-ministerial coordination will be provided through the METACEMA Steering
Committee. MET'SDirectorates (including DSS, DoF, DPWM, DOTand DEA and others as
necessary) will cooperate through the Steering Committee that will provide guidance to the
technical aspects o f all project activities; individual Directorates may take the lead on some
activities but in general all Directorates will potentially contribute to providing technical input for
all project sub-components. One role o f the Steering Committee will be to ensure that such
guidance i s conducted efficiently, and it may thus from time to time delegate specific technical
tasks to individual Directorates (in a similar fashion that MET'S Management Committee
currently operates). Routine meetings o f the Steering Committee will be attended by all members,
and the PO Coordinator.
The functions o f the Steering Committee, inconsultation with the Project Office, will include: (i)
preparing and approving annual work plans for the project, and identifying the roles o f MET'S
Directorates within the activities identified inthat plan; (ii)
                                                              developing terms o f reference (TORS),
short lists, and requests for proposals (RFPs) for consulting assignments, and providingkey inputs


                                                 -138-

for the preparation o f bidding documents, including technical specifications, for goods contracts;
(iii)ensuring the POestablishesandmaintains afiling systemto recordalldocumentationin
relation to the project implementation; (iv) participating inbid evaluation and short-list approvals,
including those associated with the CFF; (v) advising on the need for retaining specific advice
from the TSAR; (vi) advising on the need for supportive research studies relating to MET policy
initiatives; (vii) contributing to M&E efforts as may be called for by the projects M&E system;
(viii) dealing with public relations concerns that may be referred to it by the Project Office; (ix)
being available for World Bank Supervision missions, which will be scheduled to ensure that
schedulesare mutually convenient.
The PS MET, chair of the MET/ICEMA Steering Committee, will approve the annual work plans
and budgets, after review and endorsement by the MET/ICEMA SC, as well as all official project
reports.
The Steering Committee will also obtain advice by liaising with other stakeholders through a
national CBNRM Consultative Forum, which will be an informal network at the project outset but
which may be formalized as a permanent entity by the project mid-point.
MET'S CBNRM Consultative Forum (FN. The name of this Forum may be changed during
implementation but the intent will remain as described here and elsewhere): The project will also
be informed by regular meetings of an informal CBNRM Consultative Forum that is available to
the MET/ICEMA Steering Committee, and that comprises members from the stakeholder
community (including other Government Ministries [in particular MAWRD, MLRR, MLRGH],
NGOs, conservancies, the academic community and the Donor Community inter alia.). This will
ensure that the paradigm shift from Community-based Wildlife Management to Integrated
Ecosystem Management i s fully understood by all stakeholders. It i s intended that through
institutional strengthening under Component 3, this function may have a more formal structure by
the project mid-point. Project budgets provide for regular gatherings or meetings of the forum
members to exchange views. The role o f such a Forum would be to provide a mechanism for
discussing CBNRM issues, such that MET can more effectively fulfill its mission of implementing
Namibia's CBNRM Policy. Further all issues being considered by the Implementing Directorates
would be referred to the CBNRM Consultative Forum for feedback, via the MET/ICEMA
Steering Committee.
Technical and Scientific Advisoly Roster (TSAR): The role o f the TSAR is to act as a resource
available to the MET and the PO for quality control, due diligence, andrisk mitigation. The role is
not to engage in the oversight o f the project. The Steering Committee will have access to inputs
as needed upon contracting specific inputs from one or more individuals on the Roster. The
Steering Committee may recommend contracting a specific advisor through an honorarium
arrangement (Le., through payment o f professional fees to someone on the roster o f experts to be
maintained by the PO). The advisor may in term recommend a longer term research study that i s
supported under ICEMA's component 3 research activities. Members on the roster will be
categorized by areas of expertise to facilitate their identification for needed tasks. Areas of
designated expertise will include those associated with project safeguards (environmental,
resettlement, indigenous people) and will, for example, thus include at least one expert on social
issues.




                                               - 139-

 -                    Perm;inc?ntSecretary




I                                         v
     CBNRM ConsolblveForum


     MET Drectur.ites                         ICEMA ProjectOffice

              Ministryof Environment and Tourism
                                   1




t    $7GETMM                 GRN Share          Comnionity Contribution
       10                     S I 31 MM              $180 000
                                                      in kind

          ICEMNMET ProjectOffice


        ~




                                      - 141 -

IBRD will disburse the initial advance from the proceeds of the grant into the Special Account.
Actual expenditure there-from will be reimbursedthrough submission o f Withdrawal Applications
(WA s) and against Statements of Expenditure (SOE s) which will be approved in accordance
with internal control procedures to be establishedby the Project Office.

Counterpart funds will be allocated through the normal Central Government budgetary process,
but inaddition, actual cheques have to be raised and the amounts deposited into the CFA for the
project's ongoing use. An initial advance from Government will also be required. This will be
reinforced by VAT refunds which the Ministry of Finance agreed to credit direct to the project's
counterpart fund account.

All three bank accounts should be in place by the time of effectiveness. Details of the necessary
authorizations and the bank account signatories should be documented as part o f the Financial and
Administrative Manual.




                                               - 142 -

                                              Special
                                             Account -

                                        I     Project        CFF Sub
                                          Account-N$
                                                  1
expenditure or through                                       Proiects
                                        I               I
contracting out to NGO s, Private
Sector, or CBO s.




             Component 1 -             Component 2 -
             Benefit Enhancement       Sustainable
                                       Ecosystem
                                       Management




    Counterpart Funds housed in a
    separate Counter Part Fund
I I
  I Account
                                     1




                                           -  143 -

                      Additional Annex 14: EnvironmentalThreats Analysis
        NAMIBIA: Integrated Community-Based Ecosystem Management (ICEMA)


         MAJOR                                                                                           RISKS
   ENVIRONMENTAL                                           GEF INTERVENTION
 THREATS FOCUSSING
   ON CONSERVANCY
       NETWORK
1. Habitat conversion,
loss, and fragmentation    inequitable dGtribution   development ofpolicies and
by competing landuses      o f natural resources     strategies for equitable           Communal land reform will not
(e.g. agriculture, urban   Cross-cutting root cause distribution ofnatural resources    contribute to relieving pressure on
expansion and mining)      for all threats           (Communal Land Act) (3)            communal lands
                           *Policy distortions        [Refers to the component
                           (inducing                 number addressingthe issue]
                           environmental                Coordinate and streamline all
                           degradation) and poor     policies and programs affecting    Inadequateincentives for establishing
                           implementation            NRM,biodiversity and               improved inter-ministerial
                           *Policies and market      integrated ecosystem               coordination
                           institutions fail to      management across all sectors
                           incorporate
                           environmental values      (3)Harmonizationof
                           into decision-making      inter-ministerial support policies
                           *Lack of secure and       for CBNRM activities (3)            Sufficient resourcetenure and
                           exclusive group land         Environmental values and        regulatory control over all natural
                           tenure                    economic assessment                resources andexclusion of outsider
                                                     incorporated indecision-making      activity is not enabled in
                                                     processes (3)                       conservancies

                                                                                         Inadequate improvement inthe
                                                                                         presentresourcebase of farmers
                           *Population pressure           Effective land use planning
                           and settlement              (3)
                           *Gradual erosion o f the       Involving traditional
                           Dower and status o f        leadersand local community
                           traditional leaders (open   members in integrated             Low Environmental Assessment (EA)
                           accesssituations)           management of ecosystems          capacity Applies to all sections
                           *Problem animal             (2)                               addressedby EAs
                           conflicts and                  Development and
                           inappropriate incentives    implementationo f Integrated
                                                       Ecosystem Management Plans
                                                       (2)Environmental
                                                       Assessments (1,2,3)
2. Land degradation        Policy distortions           Integration o f agriculture and hadequate sectoral integrationwithin
through soil erosion,      ubsidies for water and    water managementpolicies and       MAWRD
desertification and        vestock)                  strategies(3)
biodiversity loss          Lack o f secure and          Improved coordination           Failure to acknowledge and rectify
(including bush            xclusive group land tenure amongst govemmental and NGC       Fundamentalecological insights
encroachment)                                         service organizations (3)         :onceming the management o f drylands
                                                        Holistic, ecologically,
                                                      economically and socially
                                                      sustainable decision-making at    hadequate incentives exist within
                                                      local level (1, 2)                villages to participate inconservancy
                            *Population pressure                                        development
                           and settlement                 Effective and decentralized
                            *Overgrazing               governmental andNGO



                                                       -  144-

                           *Altered fire regimes      support services (2)
                           causingwild fires            Resource assessments and
                           *Inappropriate farming    managementand using              Inadequatecompetent staff for support
                           and landuse practices      indigenous knowledge (2)        organizations and MET based on
                           *Lack of institutional       Development and               capacity assessment
                           capacity andknowledge      implementationo f Integrated
                           o f appropriate land       EcosystemManagement Plans
                          management                  including fire management(2)    Resistance to change by GRN and
                           *Short-term economic         National biodiversity         resourceusers
                           and environmental          monitoring systemat national,
                           views by resourceusers     sub-regional and local levels   Conservanciestum out unable to sustain
                                                     and integration o f results into M&Esystemsin thelong term
                                                      future strategies (4)
                                                        Environmental awareness
                                                     raising and education
                                                        Environmental
                                                     Assessments (4)

3. Illegal and           ILack of secure and           Legislation on conservancies
unsustainable harvesting :xclusive group land tenuri ) grant communal area residents   Sufficient resource tenure and
of wild plants, animals  )Allnaturalresourcesnot    ame rights andbenefits over        regulatory control over all natural
and wildlife products    :overedby conservancy      rildlife as private landowners     resources and exclusion of outsider
                         egislation                  3)Community                       activity is not enabled in
                                                                    Forest Reserves    conservancies
                                                    stablished and recognizedas
                                                    iechanisms for forest
                                                    ianagement at local level (3)      Policy and legislation is not
                                                                                       adequatelyharmonizedto enable
                                                        Development o faltemative      integrated natural resource
                          *Population pressure       livelihood strategiesbasedon      management
                          and unemployment           sustainable use o fnatural
                          *Traditional customs       resources (1)
                          for construction of           Development of pattem for      Inadequatedemand for tourism and
                          shelter, medicinal         sustainable consumptionand        wildlife basedservicesjeopardizing
                          practices, etc.            altemative uses (live fences,     income generation inconservancies
                          *Gradual erosion o f the   etc) (1)
                          power and status o f          Parks & Neighbours Policy      Communal landreformwill not
                          traditional leaders (open  to recognize conservancieson      contribute to relieving pressureon
                          access situations)         the borders o fprotectedareas     communal lands
                          *Unsustainable pattems     as legal management partners
                          ofconsumption,             for GRN (3)
                          production and trade          Devolving managementand
                          *Lack o f medium and       enforcement o f natural
                          long-term planning for     resourcesto local level (2,3)
                          sustainableuse o f            Capacity strengthening o f
                          resources.                 conservancies on sustainable
                                                     integratedmanagement o f
                                                     natural resources (2)
                                                        Development and
                                                     implementation o f Integrated
                                                     Ecosystem Management Plans
                                                     (2)Developmento     f
                                                     management guidelines for all
                                                     conservationcategories
                                                     applying indigenous
                                                     knowledge on resourceuse
                                                     also (2,3)



                                                     - 145 -

                                                         Improvedprotected species
                                                      permit systemand border
                                                      control (3)
4. Unsustainable use o f  'Policy distortions        1Harmonizationof Water and         ~ l i c and legislation is not adequately
                                                                                                y
water resources           subsidies for water and   Sanitation Policy with other        irmonized to enable integratednatural
                          ivestock)                  ,elevantpolicies (3)               source management

                          #Highpopulation growth        Promotionand capacity           ommunal land reform will not
                          Indrapid urbanization     building of community based         intribute to relieving pressure on
                          Unsustainable irrigation  Water Point Committees (2, 3)       immunal lands
                          levelopment                   Support to Basin Management
                          'Water consumption by      Committees as most appropriate
                          .ertainsectors (tourism    local level institutions for water
                          n d agriculture)          resourcemanagement (2,3)
                          !Water supply design and      Water Demand Management
                          naintenancefaults          applied in selected communal
                                                     conservanciesand other
                                                     conservancies(2)
                                                        Maintenance of ecological
                                                     hnctions andvalues of wetlands
                                                     (2,3)
                                                        Treatment of waste water for
                                                     agriculture (2)
                                                        Fog and rain water harvesting
                                                     (2)Determination    and assessmen
                                                     o f ecological water reservoirs,
                                                     sustainablewaterhole yields and
                                                     environmental river flows (2, 3)
                                                        Development and
                                                     implementationo f Integrated
                                                     Ecosystem Management Plans
                                                     (2)Environmental    Assessments
                                                     (1,293)
 5. Climate change         *Vulnerability due to        Improvedcoordination
 impacts indrylands        erratic rainfall, arid   between CBD, CCC, and CCD            Poor capacity for adaptive
                           country and infertile    implementation schemes (3)           management and livelihood
                           soils                        Implementationof the             diversification
                           *Poor adaptive            National Drought Policy and
                           managementand             Strategy (3)
                           diversification capacity     Improved environmental
                                                    monitoring systems for
                                                     forecasting drought (2,3)
                                                        Promotion of appropriate
                                                     farming, technology, species,
                                                     diversification for arid
                                                     environments (2,3)


Thirteen more general pressures on conservation and land management were identified (SOER Parks,
Tourism and Biodiversity 2000)

1. lack of secure and exclusive land tenure
2. legal protection from development inparks and PA
3. lack of government commitment interms of resources, financial support, training and research
4. lack of inter-sectoralco-ordination
5. inappropriate range management systems

                                                       - 146-

6. lack o f research into wildlife management and production
7. fencing
8. frequent fires
9. climatic change
10. social development and poverty
11, harvesting and trade inspecies
12. economic development
13. unsustainable government subsidies andincentives




                                                 - 147-

            AdditionalAnnex 15: Socioeconomic and environmental context
       NAMIBIA IntegratedCommunity-Based Ecosystem Management(ICEMA)


Countrv socioeconomic and environmental context

A.      Socioeconomic context
At Independence in 1990, Namibia inherited a highly fragmented, stratified and dualistic society,
polity and economy. The socioeconomic disparity between different ethnic groups in Namibia i s
further reflected by inequitable settlement pattems.There are three major types of land tenure that
occur inNamibia:
 i.Private lands, found mostly inthe central and more productive regions ofthe country,
    comprise approximately 44% o f the country (about 6 300 farms owned by about 4 200 mostly
    white farmers);
ii.Communal lands, found mostly inthe north, east and south centralregions, encompass
    around 42% (about 85 % o f the poor households are located in the communal areas o f the
    north, northeast and northwest);
iii.Protectedstatelands,coveralmost14%.

The 1991 census data indicated that 67.6% o f the population (1,s million) lives inthe communal
areas, while 32.4% are resident inthe freehold lands - with roughly 24% o f this latter population
living in commercial urban centers. Half of the population is considered to be living below the
poverty line, and the top seven percent o f the population account for 48% o f national
consumption. Income distribution i s one o f the most unequal inthe world, with a Gini-coefficient
of 0.7. By far the highest proportion o f the workforce is involved in subsistence agriculture
(dryland cropping andor livestock farming). The unemployment rate i s between 35% and 40%.
Malnutrition rates in many rural areas are among the highest in southem Africa. It i s estimated
that 55 % o f Namibians are below 20 years o f age. The national illiteracy rate in Namibia is
officially 17%, but in some o f the more remote areas targeted by this project it is estimated to be
as highas 40%. Gender inequality manifests itself indifferent forms, including differential access
to resources, inheritance structures favoring men, women's exclusion from decision-making
processes affecting their lives, etc. A general number for Namibia to note i s that an estimated 15 -
20 percent o f the population i s infected with HIV/Aids and will die within 5-10 years; in Caprivi
the estimate i s closer to 30 percent. A recently prepared HIV/Aids impact assessment expects
20% o f the teachers to die within the next 7 years. The female prevalence i s 24.3% in the 15-24
age group (2001). In 1998, Namibia ranked 108 (of 173 countries) on the United Nations Human
Development Index Report, considerably below South Africa's 95 and Botswana's 74 ratings.

Industries and sectors such as mining, fisheries, tourism, agriculture and livestock production
(cattle and sheep), as well as energy, are currently the main contributors to the gross domestic
product (GDP).      These are almost entirely natural resource based and require a careful
management of water and land. 1.5 % o f total land i s comprised o f exclusive diamond concession
areas. Despite stocks of strategic minerals, it i s uneconomic to exploit some of them because they
are located inremote areas with no infrastructure and limitedwater supplies.




                                                 - 148-

Poverty and inequality are serious threats to sustainable development inNamibia. Both issues can
be addressed directly (through provision of services such as education, health, water, energy,
housing and agricultural extension or transfer payments such as pensions) and indirectly (through
pricing o f services, investment promotion, taxes and subsidies, and other macroeconomic
incentives. Policies of decentralization and devolution of authority over natural resource
management should be pursued from a point of view o f poverty reduction because they tend to
strengthen local-institutional capacity, increase participation o f the poor, and stimulate local-level
retention o f benefits and cash incomes. Other means o f poverty alleviation include promoting
entrepreneurial drive and small-scale enterprise development; deregulating business environment
to unleash absorptive potential o f informal sector; and improving flexibility of the formal labor
market to increase employment options and opportunities.

B.     Environmental context
The country covers an area o f approximately 824,000 km2 and is regarded as one o f the driest
countries south o f the Sahara with a country-wide average of less than 250 mm rainfall per year
(range 5 - 700").       Drought i s a regular occurrence. Four terrestrial biomes are recognized, (i)
the desert 22 % (coinciding with rainfall o f 4 5 0 mm), (ii) semi-arid thornveld savanna 70 %
                                                               the
(150-400 mm), (iii)the dry sub-humid woodlands             8 % (400-700 mm) and (iv) freshwater
wetlands. The riverine wetlands in the northern part o f the country provide corridors for the
intrusion o f tropical flora and fauna from higher rainfall areas. These northern areas contain highly
diverse ecosystems, particularly at the interface of wetlands, riparian belts and dry woodlands.
They support important populations o f globally threatened species, including desert elephant, wild
dog, wattled crane and slaty egret. The greater part o f Namibia consists o f arid and semi-arid
rangelands with little to no permanent surface water. These areas, while being less diverse,
support the typical megafauna of Africa such as wildebeest, buffalo, giraffe, zebra, oryx, kudu,
eland, hartebeest, springbok, etc. and their associated large predators, including lion, cheetah and
hyena. Other areas have particularly high proportions o f endemic species, endemic to both the
southern African subregion and to Namibia. The southern African endemics are part of the
so-called "south-west arid" zone, which encompasses the Kalahari ecosystem.               Part of this
ecosystem occupies the eastern third o f Namibia, and the Karoo system, which extends as a
tongue to just south o f Rehoboth, sandwiched between the Kalahari in the east and the Namib in
the west.

While 14% o f Namibia has been set aside as state-controlled parks and reserves, the protected
area network is heavily skewed towards the Namib biome, leaving savannas, woodlands and
Karoo biome badly under-represented (only 4 of 13 vegetation types are comprehensively
protected). Further, entire vegetation types are wholly unprotected and face imminent threat o f
degradation from the growing needs o f Namibia's humanpopulation.

Most of the valuable forests are found in the north of the country and are situated on communal
land. Forests constitute an important resource for rural communities because o f their wood
products, habitat and potential role in providing locations for community-based tourism.
Overexploitation of forests and uncontrolled cutting of trees for various purposes in the North i s
prevalent and woodland is cleared for shifting cultivation. State regulation o f wildlife and forest
products is extremely difficult to enforce due to large distances from administrative centers and


                                                - 149 -

lack o f government resources.

The three main competing landresource use activities are (i)      livestock keeping, (ii) natural
                                                                                          wild
resource use, and (iii)community tourism activities. Attendant with highpopulation growth rates
(in some areas as high as 3.2 %) are escalating land demands for settlement, subsistence
agriculture and livestock grazing, limited mainly by lack of water.           Such threats are further
compounded by fragmented governmental policies that, in many cases actually promote human
settlement, subsistence agriculture, and livestock production in unsuitable andhighly marginalized
arid and semi-arid regions o f the country. Insuch instances, human settlers and livestock compete
with wildlife for sparse sources of water and grazing inhighly fragile ecosystems that shouldmost
appropriately be managed and sustainably utilized as for example wildlands for Namibia's rapidly
growing tourism market.

(a) Biodiversity
Namibia's Constitution reflects the issues of biodiversity in its articles 95 Article 95 (I) theof
Constitution of the Republic of Namibia: "The State shall actively promote and maintain the
welfare o f the people by adopting, inter alia, policies aimed at maintenance o f ecosystems,
essential processes and biological diversity of Namibia and utilizing o f living natural resources on
a sustainable basis for the benefit o f all Namibians, both present and future." The Ministry of
Environment and Tourism (MET) has established a National Biodiversity Programme. The
National Biodiversity Strategic Plan was completed in early 2002, and sets the financing and
implementation framework for Phase I11and beyond, focusing on effective implementation o f the
Convention on Biological Diversity through national priorities. Some clear priorities for a holistic,
integrated, approach are (i) development o f an integrated terrestrial framework for environmental
change assessment and mitigation, as part of an early warning system involvingbiodiversity loss,
desertification and climate change; and (ii) evaluation o f the biodiversity impacts o f Namibian land
tenure and land use systems, including different mining, agricultural, conservation and settlement
land uses. The Biodiversity Strategy recognizes that the devolution of rights and responsibilities
over land and natural resources to the lowest appropriate level i s a fundamental component o f
sustainable natural resource management and biodiversity conservation. It also recognizes that
incentives for wise natural resource management, together with research, information and
monitoring are other vital components of the strategy. To this end, the cross-cutting component
of land-use planning and natural resource management identifies the CBNRM approach and the
network o f freehold and communal conservancies as an important initiative to ensure biodiversity
conservation and sustainable development inNamibia. Namibia's protected areas are currently not
representative o f the vast diversity o f the country's national assets and do not include most o f
Namibia's biodiversity. That means that Namibia's biomes, other than the desert biomes, are
seriously under-represented. CBNRh4 offers the potential o f extending biodiversity conservation
and management beyond Namibia's protected areas network while providing at the same time for
corridors through which wildlife can also safely move from one P A to another. 17 out of the 29
registered conservancies are adjacent to National Parks, thus increasing the buffer zone area
around parks, as well as providing these important corridors for the movement o f wildlife.
Therefore the growing conservancy network is considered as a key vehicle to support Namibia's
biodiversity conservation program and to deliver local, national and global environmental benefits.
The evolution and growth o f communal and freehold conservancies provides Namibia with an


                                               - 150-

excellent opportunity to further protect and preserve its biodiversity heritage. Inmany instances,
biodiversity hotspots are being incorporated into emerging conservancies (e.g. the Tsiseb
Conservancy around the Brandberg Mountains, the Grootberg Conservancy incorporating the
Hobatere area, the Marienfluss Conservancy including the Otjihipa and Hartmann mountains),
while conservancies established adjacent to existing parks and/or protected areas (e.g. Etosha
National Park, Skeleton Coast Park, MudumuNational Park and Mamili National Park) greatly
expands quality habitats and seasonal movement patterns for fauna. These corridors for gene flow
make provision for the maintenance of viable biodiversity rich populations not only within
Namibia, but also across international boundaries between South Africa, Angola, Botswana,
Zambia andZimbabwe.

Namibia's biodiversity includes innumerable species o f wild plants and animals and a great variety
of ecosystems. Only a small number (possible as little as 20 %) have been described to date.
There i s a lack of baseline data of the diversity and ecology of Namibian flora and fauna. Birds
are probably the best known group but even here are gaps inthe knowledge base, especially with
regard to ecological habitat requirement. O f the 13637 species, almost 19 % are endemic or
unique to Namibia. Natural ecosystems provide vital genetic material (required to enhance
domestic crop and livestock species) and essential life sustaining services (food, fiber, medicine,
tourism opportunities, shelter, etc.) It can be assumed, that those areas in Namibia that have the
highest human population and livestock densities and that have been subject to extensive land
clearing are those that have suffered the highest losses inbiodiversity. The importance o f wildlife
harvesting to subsistence economies in rural areas cannot be underestimated (33 % total
household consumption inrural areas comes from wild foods). There i s an important potential for
wild plant harvesting (e.g. Welwitschia, Tsamma melons, Quiver tree, Mopane, Kiaat and Devil's
Claw). The currently most important wild products include: thatching grass, medicinal products
and veld foods (from nuts, fruits, leaves, roots and bark), meat, firewood, wood for construction
and woodcarving. Direct use (marine fisheries, crop cultivation, woodlands, drylands, wetlands)
of Namibia's biodiversity contributes to over 30 % o f the GDP. On communal lands, Namibia's
approach to preserve habitats and species and to provide income from tourism and other direct
uses of ecosystem services i s mainly based on the conservancy network. It i s estimated that more
than 75 % of Namibia's large mammals are found outside protected areas, key species such as
elephants, leopards, cheetahs and antelope move freely between parks and neighboring land.
Thus, privately owned farms, private nature reserves, freehold and communal conservancies
compliment the national Government's conservation initiatives.

Moreover, it may be stressed that Namibia i s especially hosting (i) taxa o f critical importance and
(ii) ofglobalrelevance:
    issues
 i.The humanversus wildlife conflict hasbeentackledfor alongtime inthis country, with
    mitigated success, e.g. predation by the Namibian cheetah, world's largest population o f the
    taxon, still poses problems to the livestock industry, whether commercial cattle ranches or
    communal pastoralists; the conservancy model brings an opportunity to revisit conventional
    approaches towards large predators incoexistence with man.
ii.CommoninNamibia,desert&semi-desertenvironmentshaveshapeddrought-resistant flora
    & fauna through millenaries of harsh co-evolution. Exotic species such as domestic animals
    and crops have not gone through this natural process. With the development o f adaptive


                                                - 151-

    sustainable-use management practices in conservancies, natural habitats can be rehabilitated
    and maintained and their products given added value, giving new development opportunities
    to rural communities.

There are several areas o f special ecological importance in Namibia which require urgent
conservationprotection:
1. the Kaoko escarpment including the Brandberg and nearby inselbergs andgranite domes
2. the southernNamibcenter of endemisminthe Sperrgebiet
3. the woodlands, floodplains and riparian vegetation of the perennial rivers and surrounding
    areas inthe Caprivi
4. the mountain savanna and karstveld of the Otavi mountainlands
5. the dwarf shrub savanna of the Brukkaros crater.

(b) Land capability, rangelands and agriculture
Namibia's status as one o f the driest nation in the sub-Saharan African context, prompted to
establish a National Programme to combat Desertification (NAPCOD). NAPCOD started in
1994 with involvement o f rural communities, NGOs, government, donors. NAPCOD's wide
range of activities include actions on the ground as working with resource users inpilot areas and
national level planning and advocacy. It focuses mainly on two inter-linked purposes: Firstly,
improving sustainability o f natural resource use through establishment and training of
Community-based Organizations, and secondly, reducing poverty through safeguarding existing
as well as generating alternative sources o f income. Activities undertaken in the framework o f
NAPCOD are predominantly targeted at communal areas. A key programme element that
supports the implementation of the NAPCOD strategy i s the Sustainable Animal and Range
Development Programme (SARDEP).            This programme was launched in 1991 to develop and
demonstrate range management and improved livestock production strategies in pilot
communities in the communal areas o f Namibia. The SARDEP programme, NAPCOD and the
associated Namibian Economic Policy Research Unit (NEPRU) are very strong allies o f the
CBNRM Program, and increased collaboration among partners i s expected to generate strong,
mutual benefits and synergies. NAPCOD managed to define a mix o f four key indicators to
measure the status and evolution o f land degradation: population pressure, livestock pressure,
rainfall variability and erosion risk (slope and soil property). Data for these indicators and remote
sensing GIS images are available inNAPCOD's database.

Furthermore, NAPCOD has been involved in the highly successful "Forum for Integrated Rural
Development (FIRM)" in the Grootberg pilot area (#Khoadi-//hoas Conservancy).                    With
increased recognition o f the relevance o f CBNRM activities to rangeland management,
desertification control, rural development, and biodiversity conservation, collaborative efforts will
be strengthened to improve the policy framework for sustainable CBNRM, participatory planning
and capacity-building of community-based organizations.

Namibia's land degradation processes are enhanced through prevailing patterns and variations o f
rainfall. Duringthe extended dry periods plant growth slows down or stops completely, leaving
soils extremely vulnerable to erosion and other processes of land degradation. As degradation
continues, soils pass from grassland to bush encroachment areas to deeply eroded ground.


                                                -152-

Nowadays, Namibia's arid savanna systems and dry woodland areas have reverted to
savanna-type systems as a result of extensive deforestation. They are the most susceptible to land
degradation manifestedby bushencroachment, soil erosion and soil salination, causes of economic
loss and escalating poverty through declining agricultural production and a loss o f food security.
The direct causes o f desertification inNamibia are too many people and livestock occupying one
place for too long contributing to overgrazing and deforestration. This leads to human migration,
rapid urbanization and an increased need for the government to import food. In addition to the
natural unpredictable environment, distant markets limits the development of farming in
communal areas and agricultural incomes are low and variable.

Livestock i s the main agricultural activity but constraints to sustainable management of rangelands
i s due to a lack o f secure and exclusive group land tenure, and most importantly to scarce surface
water. The current legislative vacuum and resultingstatus quo with respect to the tenure and use
o f rangelands is seen as a primary contributing cause of desertification inNamibia. Subsidies to
communal and freehold livestock keepers (e.g. free water and fodder provision, drought subsidies,
rent-free land, veterinary services, price support etc.) have put further pressure on communal
pasture resources and encouraged over-stocking inthe communal areas as well as increase inbush
encroachment. Since the 1970's many freehold livestock farmers have moved towards mixed
game/livestock farming. Prevailing man-made habitat degradation through over-stocking had
reduced the carrying capacity for grazing stock but augmented fodder resources for browsers.
These factors led to an increasing diversification into game farming and tourism activities (about
7% o f all freehold farms now offer game hunting safaris and many more basic eco-tourism
services) which helps to create a valuable buffer against drought.

Traditional mechanisms of land and resource allocations on communal land are under pressure.
The gradual erosion o f power and status of traditional leaders combined with slow progress in
decentralization and addressing land rights issues have contributed to the development o f critical
open access situations. There i s an urgent need for land tenure reform and redistribution, as well
as comprehensive land use planning and management.              Over the years, traditional nomadic
pastoralism has given way in many areas to sedentary forms of pastoral land use. This led to an
increasing inability o f herds to track shifting grazing resources, following spatial and temporal
variations in rainfall. This puts increased pressure on pastures and risks overstocking and
overgrazing. Increased water availability through GRNprovision had the effect of causing further
degradation.

Tenure reform must go beyond any single resource such as land, particularly in communal areas,
where different resource tenures (over water, grazing resources, trees, wildlife and land) and
related benefit streams, livelihood systems and formal and informal local and external institutions
are inextricably linked. Land tenure reform in the communal lands i s being pursued through the
recent "Communal Land Reform Act" which was debated for many years. In particular, the
current Communal LandReform Act introduces group tenure rights and regulates the fencing o f
common grazing lands by influential communal farmers. A working relationshipbetween involved
government line ministriessuch as Ministry o f Lands, Resettlement and Rehabilitation, Ministry o f
Regional and Local Government and Housing, Ministry o f Agriculture, Water and Rural
Development, and Ministry of Environment and Tourism i s in place. These ministries have


                                                 -153 -

overlapping jurisdictions with respect to land, which makes it indispensable to harmonize
land-related development objectives, policies and carefully coordinate actions in the present and
future.

(c) Water the most scarce resource in Namibia
           -
Namibia i s one o f the driest country south of the Sahara. Low to very low mean annual rainfall,
high variability in rainfall, and very high evaporation rates combine to severely limit water
supplies. All o f the country's interior rivers are ephemeral, that is, they don't carry any surface
water for much o f the year. The only permanently flowing river lie near to, or form part of, the
countries international boundaries.

An essential basic use of water is the ecological use of water to sustain critical ecosystems and
habitats inNamibia. Examples of essential ecosystem use of water are rivers and wetlands such as
the Kuiseb River and the Cuvelai Wetland system (the latter requires water to sustain fish,
recharge, Etosha Pan and soil moisture and humidity for crop production). Water flow and
recharge inthe Kuiseb catchment are threatened by a myriadof small up-stream farm dams.

The lack of readily available freshwater in the interior of the country remains the most important
limiting factor for development. Due to shortages in surface water, Namibia relies heavily on
groundwater reserves. These reserves are subject to low recharge rates from rainfall and periodic
ephemeral floods. Ground water accounts for 57 % o f recorded water consumption over 80 % of
which i s used for crop irrigation and livestock watering purposes (but agriculture contributes only
to 10% to GDP). The value added to the water used for agricultural activities inNamibia i s very
low when compared to that used for manufacturing or tourism and other service sector.
Freshwater depletion and degradation threatens human and livestock health, ecosystem resilience
and socioeconomic development. Itreduces livelihoodoptions and exacerbatesrural poverty.

On communal land the widespread provision o f water from boreholes for livestock and domestic
use without the establishment o f appropriate integrated water resource management and water
demand management strategies has led to increased sedentarisation of livestock causing heavy
localized overgrazing and competition with wildlife. Non-conflictual water access and use in
communal areas also depends on legitimate and secure tenure arrangements in place, whereby
water rights are bound-up within broader multi-resource tenure systems. An institutional
framework for community participation in rural water supply and sanitation, encouraging the
creation o f regional-level central water committees, local water committees and water point
committees has been established. It reflects government efforts towards greater decentralization
of decision-making power and devolution o f rights and responsibilities over NRM.Inthe medium
and long term, conservancy committees and water point associations should be based on the same
organizational structures.




                                                - 154 -

         Additional Annex 16: Conservancyprofiles and prioritization process
        NAMIBIA IntegratedCommunity-Based EcosystemManagement (ICEMA)

Conservancies are principally located in three regions o f Namibia, i.e. the north-west (arid
savanna and desert, including the escarpment zone); north-east (broadleaf woodlands and savanna
in the Okavango and Zambezi River catchments), and southern Namibia (desert and arid steppe
(grassland and low scrubland). The detail of conservancies in each o f the three regions can be
obtained from the table and map. Conservancies in all three regions are in different stages of
development and have different needs and potential for development and natural resource
conservation and management. All three regions are of importance to Namibia in terms of
biodiversity conservation and contain a wide range of Namibian or southern African endemic
species. None o f the three regions are adequately represented in Namibia's protected area
network, or the protected areas in those regions can not be effectively managed in isolation from
adjacent land.    These three regions therefore represent the priority regions for intervention
through the ICEMA project and provide a full coverage o f key ecosystems throughout the
country.

Interventions through this project are the result o f a participatory and consultative process, in
which the specific situation and needs of each targeted conservancy will be considered. A phased
approach will be taken, focusing on a limitednumber of conservancies time. Lessons learned will
be incorporated in the next phase. In addition to the ecosystem approach, the projects supports
cross-conservancy activities too achieve economies of scale and in recognition that some
anticipated interventions may, however, benefit more than one conservancy, e.g. capacity-building
andtraining as well as investments as the reintroductionof species.

Criteria for project intervention area:
The project will use limitedGEF resources to support selected registered conservancies:
a. with global environmentally important assets (each supported conservancy will start its
    planning process with a thoroughly assessment o f its resource base, supported by MET'S
    Directorate o f Scientific Services);
b. with strong community-driven demand and ownership for the transition from a
    community-based wildlife management (present) to an IEM(long-term) approach (see for
    more details further below);
C.  with strong potential for sustainability (socioeconomic, financial and institutional);
d. where the GEF's catalytic role (targeted global environmental priority support to
    conservancies; policy, legal and institutional support for shift towards CBIEM and assistance
    to identify,test and apply options to ensure financial sustainability for the National CBNRM
    Program) leads to additional leverage o f resources addressing root causes and other local
    development needs (partnering with other projects and programs adding value to the
    nationalprogram) and where insufficient funds are available but financial viability i s expected
    over time;
e. where contributing to the development o f best practices;
 f. inlocalitieswherecommunity-basedorganizations areregistered;
g-  where scaling-up and replication i s facilitated within the national CBNRM program;
    andor


                                               - 155 -

h. where it favors an integrated landscapeapproach and amix ofecosystemtypes.

The project will support the shift from wildlife-focused management (CBWM) to an integrated
ecosystem approach (CBIEM) through the following elements:
(1) Strengthened legal and policy framework for CBNRM under component 3 (moving away
from wildlife management as the center o f the previous CBNRM) within MET (e.g. MET's
revision o f conservation policies into one bundledact including parks and wildlife management);
but also within jurisdiction of other Ministries (e.g. Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Rural
Development (e.g. for linkages to other resource uses such as rangeland management, water
management), Ministry of Lands Rehabilitation and Resettlement (e.g. for improved conservancy
representation within new land boards) and Ministryof Local Regional Governance and Housing
(e.g. for representation of conservancies inRegional Development Coordination Committees).
(2) Reform for CBNRM institutional framework under component 3 through: (i)the
establishment of a multi-stakeholder and multi-sectoral CBNRM Consultative Forum under
MET's leadership. This Forum comprises members from the stakeholder community (including
other Government Ministries [in particular MAWRD, MLRR, MLRGH], NGOs, CBOs, the
academic community and the Donor Community inter alia.). This will ensure that the shift from
Community-based Wildlife Management to IntegratedEcosystem Management i s fully understood
and supported by all stakeholders; (ii)MET's institutional restructuring to move away from
segmented and sub-sectoral approaches (potential merge o f current separate CBNRM
sub-divisons under Directorate o f Forestry, Directorate o f Tourism, Directorate of Parks and
Wildlife Management).
(3) Direct investments for ecosystem restoration and rehabilitation measures under
component 2 including plants and wildlife. These activities will build on and replicate pilot
experiences under the highly successful Forum for integrated resource management (FIRM)
approach (see annex 15, 2.1.2.2.) where formal linkages to other resource use schemes such as
rangeland management, desertification control, fisheries, forestry and water management have
been established and used for integrated conservancy planning and implementation.
(4) Targeted capacity building for conservancies and field-based support organization for
integrated ecosystem planning (zoning, mapping), implementation and monitoring and evaluation
undercomponent2.
(5) Identification and implementationof viable ecosystem-based income generating
activities under component 1.




                                                - 156-

Map. Conservancies and protected areas in Namibia. Source: MET, 2003.




                                                  Rmglctand Cornm~nalConr8wano1.+




                                   - 157-

- 158-

     Conservancy Name*      Region    Biome      Date       Size    Total
                                               Registered   km2   Registered
                                                                  Members




   I TOTALS                                               I74052 138063
* First Year candidatesite.




                                      -159-

Table. Namibia Priority target sites for first year annual work plan




 ___.
    "I
     -e
     U

     n       P
             n
                                                                P   P P




                                            -  160-

I

                        Additional Annex 17: CBNRM lessonslearned
         NAMIBIA IntegratedCommunity-Based Ecosystem Management (ICEMA)


Experiences from other African countries and inparticular from other donor-funded support to
the Namibian National CBNRM Program, demonstrated the needto adapt and integrate the
following lessons inthe project design:

a.       Support conservancy governance
Conservancy organizations are partially democratic in nature. It i s therefore recommended that
bottom-up accountability and participatory democracy principles be developed and introduced as
quickly as possible, using carefully constituted village-level organizations as the basic
building-block o f conservancies. This principle should be reinforced by all partners, and through
all interventions, including conservancy formation, constitution development,        education o f
individuals about democratic rights, and the development of transparent and equitable benefit
sharing systems, with the latter beinga powerful tool to drive bottom-up accountability.

Thisproject further extends thisprinciple by promoting the use of locally and democratically
developed Community Based Integrated Ecosystem Management (CBIEM) plansfor all target
conservancies.


b.       Achieve financial, socialhstitutional and environmental sustainability in
Conservancies
Financial viability/sustainability is defined as the ability of a conservancy to cover its routine
operating costs. Each Conservancy must decide whether they wish to earn income from activities
such as tourism, wildlife utilization, veld andor forest products, range and water management. A
tailor-made integrated conservancy management plans should target moving towards financial
viability within three to five years. The past and present analysis of tourism, hunting and other
commercial opportunities suggests that this i s possible in many conservancies, although in some
cases where the Conservancy cannot become financially sustainable, but support i sjustified on the
basis o f other reasons, such as biodiversity conservation, additional mechanisms will be necessary
(see sustainable financing section).

Lessons show that developing financial flows also requires institutional accountability and local
governance, so this step should follow the recommendation on democratic conservancy
institutions. This will bring organizational development and financial planning at center stage,
organized around community livelihoodand development priorities. Inmany cases, this will lead
to tourism planning and the strategic development of enterprises, with high-value tourism and
hunting partnerships with the private sector likely to be where the most value can be added
fastest. Community enterprises can then be developed around these commercial nodes. The
transition to viability will require an investment in planning tourism and in negotiating
conservancy-private sector partnerships. Higher level technical support may be required in terms
of policy and implementation support.

The capacity of conservancies to undertake planning, management and monitoring of their



                                                - 162-

ecosystem will be strongly enhanced. Integrated management plans covering all natural
resources, resource uses and resource users will be prepared in targeted conservancies through
a permanently improved planning process (applying lessons learned from past years under an
adaptiveplanning and management approach).



c.       Establish Comprehensive but Simple Performance and Impact Monitoring at Local
and Nationallevel
Lessons from elsewhere show that M&E is a powerful management tool that can improve
understanding o f the resource base, understating of the impacts o f human interventions on the
resource base, and development o f new management models to improve ecosystem quality and
human well-being. Simple M&E procedures that are sensitive to local conditions and capacity
constraints are among the most effective, especially if they are developed in a participatory
manner within an adaptive management framework. However, past evaluation o f the CBNRM
Program has demonstrated that the m&e system development at national and local level was not a
priority and remained very limited and fragmented and not adapted to cover the move towards
integratedmanagement of resources.

ICEMA supports the development and implementation of a comprehensive process that
facilitates adoption of a performance and impact m&e system that is adequate for project
reporting andfor local resource management needs.


d.       Revise Main Delivery Systems to lower costs, increase impacts and ensuring
 sustainable exit strategies
There are three types o f delivery systems to conservancies, (i)
                                                              traditional (= wildlife) conservancy
 support, (ii)
             regulation o f conservancies, (iii) development. Consideration should be given to
                                               rural
reviewing and revising delivery support systems to lower costs and increase impact. Whenever
possible, communities should be enabled to demand-drive this support based on their individual
priorities.

Also, at a higher level, MET will outsource a majority ofproject activities on the ground to well
 recognized and highly reputable service providers @rivate sector, conservancy) through
 transparentprocurement arrangements.



 e.      Support emergence of Regional Conservancy Associations
 The emergence of Regional level Conservancy Associations should be supported. They are
 supposed to create a strong, legitimate advocacy related to extension and regulatory services,
 providing input in national policies and strategies, sharing knowledge, resources, skills and
 sourcing services, finance and private sector partnershipthrough interaction at both the Regional
 andNational levels as well as becoming cooperatives buying services and marketing products.

 The project will include support to regional communal conservancy associations to enable
 increased collaboration and exchange of information. This will help the emerging conservancies



                                               -163-

in developing their management and objectives using the experience gained by established
conservancies, pooling resources and experiences and supporting an ecosystem as well as
corridor approach for wildlife movements. The project will also support the creation of a
national conservancy association which will enable the direct dialogue between communal
conservancies and central government.



f.      Private sector and communal conservancies

The long-term CBNRM program vision developed in 2001 includes the establishment o f strong
and smart partnerships between communal conservancies and the private sector.                Such
partnerships are expected to be productive at a number of levels. Especially important will be the
enabling environment for the establishment o f ecosystem-based income-generation activities to
return benefits to its broader membership and possible contribute to cover the conservancy
operational costs.

 The project    supports through its        Community-Funding Facility under       component     I
capacity-building for business planning, management and monitoring at conservancy and at
sub-project level. Importantly, applicable mechanisms for benejt-distribution, currently not
available, will be developed and assessed in targeted conservancies.



 g.     ENV & QAG Review of GEFbiodiversity projectsinAfrica:

The Bank's internal reviews of GEF supported biodiversity related projects in Africa such as the
2002 Africa Biodiversity Portfolio Review (1992 - 2002); the 1997 QAG Review of Biodiversity
Projects in Africa, the 1998 QAG review of the Natural Resources Management Portfolio; and
the 1998 ENV Bank-wide Review o f Biodiversity Projects call for:
  i.better up-stream design including adoption of programmatic approach, emphasis on
    ecosystem approach and extension of conservation into production landscapes strengthen the
    local and global linkages as well as building incentive structures and stakeholder roles to
    improve the upfront demonstration o f project benefit flows,
 ii.strongcommitmentandcapacitybyGovernmentandotherstakeholders;
iii.mainstreaminginthecountryportfolio;
iv. settingup realistic and consensual development objectives;

 v. putting more emphasis on legal and regulatory measures to support the permanency of
    institutional arrangements and a blueprint o f plans and actions on how project initiatives are
    proposedto be sustainably translated inthe post-project period;
vi. formulation of performance, impact and ecosystem indicators and monitoring systems to
    record the status, trends andrates o f change inbiodiversity resources;

vii. incorporating knowledge sharing, training activities to support long-term capacity and to
    promote adaptive learning;



                                               -164 -

viii. strong emphasis on replicability and demonstration of conservation achievements;

 ix. coordinationwith NGOs; and

 x. intensive Bank supervision.

  These past recommendations and lessons are incorporated inthe project design.

  To ensure that new lessons learned will be automatically collected, analyzed and disseminated,
  ICEMA's components include various knowledge management activities which will be monitored
  and adapted ifnecessary. The objective o f ICEMA's communication approach to disseminate
  lessons learned and enhance knowledge sharing among all stakeholders is to enhance and
  strengthen existing initiatives and not to create project specific free-standing events.

 Dissemination of information from the National CBNRM Program and ICEMA Project i s
  important so that lessons can be shared, approaches can be replicated, when appropriate, and
  stakeholders can become aware o f the contributions, accomplishments, and difficulties faced by
  CBNRM. Further, lessons learned will feed back into national decision-making processes and
  strategic guidance for future developments.

  The project's main elements for dissemination include:

   i.Ease of access to relevant monitoring and evaluation information, as required by
      decision-makers and other users, including full disclosure o f non-confidential information

  ii.Special initiatives to engage policy and operations decision-makers and stakeholders in
      internalizingthe lessons from experience and best practices

 iii.Requirementsfortheuseoflessonsandbestpracticesinthedevelopment ofnewpolicies,
      projects and pilot approaches

 iv. Systematic action on the follow-up of findings and recommendations that flow from the m&e
      program

  v. Specific dissemination action plan for various stakeholders andpartners

 vi. Support existing efforts to document, share and disseminate indigenous knowledge, in
      particular through validation and valuation. Validation (apart from scientific one) includes
      local exchanges of indigenous knowledge, the comparison o f effective and relevant practices
      across communities and regions, the study o f the impact o f application o f IK on the
      development o f communities. Valuation covers the accrual o f financial and other benefits for
      the bearer o f knowledge by providing or sharing their information. This does not necessarily
      have to be financial, recognition by the research establishment o f the value o f IK i s as

      CCD program for the exchange of IK across communities (C2C - community to community
      important, for example the support of building IK constituencies. Further, making use o f the

      exchanges).



                                                  - 165-

               Additional Annex 18: Monitoring and Evaluation Mechanisms
       NAMIBIA: IntegratedCommunity-Based Ecosystem Management(ICEMA)


This section highlights the primary M&E reporting protocols and requirements covered by
ICEMA based on the draft m&e manual developed during project preparation. A final draft
manual including references to the IPDP action plan monitoring framework will be available by
time of effectiveness before the Project's Office staff including the m&e specialist will be inplace.
The m&e specialist i s expected to review and adjust the m&e manual as necessary for the
requirements to set-up the project's Management Information System (MIS).

Monitoring, as a process of systematic collection, analysis and use o f data to improve project
performance, outputs and use o f these in the short term will serve as an important management
tool to guide management and implementation at all levels. The monitoring system will be
undertaken by all interested groups and key partners (MET, Communities, private/NGO sector
and World Bank).
Through the Project Office, the project will maintain an information data base linked to the MIS
and the logical framework. This will allow the agencies to assess and report on the quality and
quantity o f work at each level. In addition, monitoring will be characterized by a rapid feedback
from management to operational levels to address issues arising from the analysis of monitoring
information.
The primary purpose of monitoring o f project implementation is:

0   To monitor progress towards attainment o f targets and to adapt targets to realities
0   To provide an improved foundation for planning
0   To make sure resources are usedeffectively and to identify unacceptably highcost
    interventions and operations
    To identify problems and find solutions at an early stage
    To provide record o f events
    To look at `process' o f development such as staffing, capacity buildingand collaboration
    To provide an information base for future evaluations
    To maintain highstandards
    To help staff feel their work has a definite purpose.

Monitoring Methods: The following methods will be used:

o   Management information system that provides regular information on all aspects of project
    activities and costs
o   Management information system that provides information on expected changes
o   Periodic sample surveys that check on project parameterdelementsthat are critical to the
    achievement of project objectives
o   Occasional in-depth monitoring studies




                                                - 166-

Monitoring Framework:

 What needsto be monitored          Methodology
 I.Impactof investments:            Through two sample surveys
 Indicators need to be developed    (baseline and end-texm) using
 for measuring:                     sampling from community         :ffectiveness date)
                                    information sources,            md 5
 (a) impact on species within the
target sites
 (b) impact on health of ecosystem
 at target site
(c) impact on livelihoods o f
communities

2. Financial and physical           Using a computerized            Ingoing with       MET and others
processes:                          Management Information          )eriodic monthly,  will input and
Monitor and enable information      System (MIS) aligned with the   parterly and       utilize information.
based decisions regarding all       accounting system and financial innual reports     PO will provide
physical, financial and             procedures. Additional details                      core support
administrative aspects o f project  provided in Financial and
implementation.                     Procurement chapters.

3. Community empowerment and The process o f community              Ingoing as part o f Facilitated
learning:                           mobilization, participation and larticipatory       primarily by MET
Community based monitoring          2mpowerment encompasses a        )recess            PO M&E
activities are critical for successhlumber o f community based      mplementedby        Coordinator in
sub-project implementation and      nonitoringactivities. E.g:      vlET and            collaboration with
sustainability. The community,      :ommunity wide meetings,        :onservancies.      the conservancies.
and its conservancy should          :ducation and information
therefore assume an active role in  :vents, assessment o f plans,
supervising design and              iolding regular open meetings,
implementationprocesses, in         :tc. Beneficiaries will also be
monitoring budget management        tble to draw upon
and contractor's selection and      :ommunications materials
performance, ensuring consistenc:   irepared under the Project and
with local plans, and adhering to   iy MET to increase

agreed roles and responsibilities.  'ransparency about the program
                                    mdenable them to more
                                    :ffectively monitor the
                                    sub-project cycle and other
                                    Jrocesses within their own
                                    ocality.

4. Participatory processes:         rhese activities will be        Ingoing             Decentralized
The participatoryprocess in the     nonitored as part o f M&E at    :specially during   monitoring i s a
communities is critical to the      he decentralized level,         :arly years o f     responsibility
success o f this program. It is     :oordinated centrally to ensure mplementation       within the
therefore necessary to monitor the  :omparability .                                     conservancy
process and adapt the process as                                                        sub-projects.
appropriate. The monitoring
process needs to provide reports



                                                       - 167-

on issues suchas the social
institutions and relationships
betweenvarious groups, land
tenure systems, role of customary/
traditional laws and norms,
human resourcedevelopmentat
MET and community level.

5. Project management:            Activities include the following: Biannually       NBteamalong

M&E activities are aimed at       (a) Joint supervision missions,   (September 1and  vith the MET

identifying operational           including safeguards             April 30),

bottlenecks, challenges,best      monitoring                        mid-term review

practices and opportunities, and                                    and upon project

resolvethem while modifying       (b) Mid-term review               completion

Implementation Manual             (c) Implementation Completion
guidelines accordingly.           Report


Evaluation: There shall also be periodic monitoring to identify lessons that may contribute to
improving the performance o f similar projects and the sector as a whole. The aim i s to determine
the relevance and fulfillment of project objectives, development efficiency, effectiveness, impact
and sustainability. There will be mid-term review and an implementation completion report, as
well as monitoring o f Safeguard elements.

The above forms o fevaluations will be undertaken for the following reasons among others:
o    Information on actual eventdpractices
o    Learning for improvement of new/on-going projects
o    Decision-making on best alternatives
o    Accountability for achieving results and best use of resources
o    Sustainability for lasting benefits o f investment

Evaluation methods: The methods will include:

o    Comparison of project beneficiaries before and after the project. This approach requires the
     collection o f baseline information, especially on parameters on which the project i s expected
     to impact. I t requires, for the comparison to be meaningful, that the timing o f the "after"
     measurements are carefully considered.
o    Frequent visits to sites duringthe period o f project implementation activities and beyond.
o    Comparison of project beneficiaries to "control" entities/ communities (those that have
     characteristics similar to the beneficiaries but did not participate in the project). This i s
     facilitated by MET'Son-going efforts to keep records on all conservancies.
Eventhough monitoring and evaluation have different roles, they are closely linked and mutually
supportive. The two processes are expected to provide the feed back and lessons that will help the
project to be steered to its set goals. There should be timely use o f results o f monitoring and
evaluation, that is on internalizing and feeding back information from M&E into routine activities
through various reports, such as the monthly, quarterly, annual field visits, and evaluation reports.

Roles and Responsibilities: All key partners and interested groups in the project would be
involved in monitoring. For instance, the responsibility for monitoring and evaluation o f


                                                      -168-

community micro-projects will be undertaken by the communities, the conservancies, MET, and
the World Bank. For micro-projects with a duration of one year or more, quarterly reports must
be submitted to MET. For micro-projects with a duration of less than one year, the frequency of
reporting shall be monthly.

Monitoring by the Community: In support of community ownership of projects and
sustainability, the following measures will be put in place to give communities a strong role in
monitoring:

o  There will be a requirement to indicate on the community project proposal the plan for
    community monitoring;
o  There will be a requirement that at the project launch, the full details o f the agreement will be
   made public (cost o f project, funds available, roles andresponsibilitieso f various actors);
o  There will also be the requirementthat all project documents be available for inspectionby the
   community;
o  Conservancies will keep communities informed at all stages throughout the project;
o  Communities will holdregular meetings to discuss project progress;
o   Communities will be assisted with a check-list and other training materials to enable them to
    supervise and monitor TA services, construction works and other sub-project investments;
o   a final report is required for each micro-project summarizing the findings o f the TA and other
    service providers such as consultants.

Monitoring and Evaluation in Sub-projects: Each sub-project will have a sub-project number.
In the MIS database, the sub-project number will identify each community (i-e., individual
proposal), and all required information will be entered into MIS derived from the approved
proposal. Data will be entered at four levels: sub-project approval, Fund Disbursement, each
subsequent tranche disbursement, andupon sub-project completion.


Other levels of monitoring: The MET and the World Bank will monitor project implementation
through: reports, monitoring studies, beneficiary assessments, audits and supervision missions.
The key aspect of monitoring at the community level would revolve around ascertaining the
extent to which implementing partners provide the requisite back-stopping support to the
conservancies.
MET will monitor progress o f project activities at the community levels, including, for example:
base-line studies, training and extension by support agencies, quality assurance o f works,
compliance with procurement and disbursement procedures as outlined in the micro-project
agreement signed between conservancies and MET as well as micro-project costs.
MET would monitor project performance and assess project impact on site management and
biodiversity conservation.
Auditors (external) and World Bank will monitor MET performance with procurement and
disbursement procedures, as well as the legal and audit covenants established in the Grant
Agreement.
Activity Indicators: Performance indicators have been developed for each activity in the project,
and are linkedto the project cost summaries as shown in section A and annex 1. These indicators


                                                -169-

relate entirely to the output from the individual activities, and do not attempt to assess the final
impacts o f the activity (which dependalso on other activities and the overall environment inwhich
the project i s taking place). The indicators are generally of one of the following types:

o   Capacity enhancementmeasures for activities involving training
o   Completion on-time andwithin designparameters for activities involvingworks
o   Delivery on-time and within specifications for activities involving goods
o   Publication or dissemination o f material for activities involving consultancy services with
    publishable deliverables
o   Assessment of effectiveness for individual sub-projects, and adequate dispersion and
    representativeness for aggregate sub-projects

Financial Indicators: The primary financial indicators for the project are those that directly relate
to procurement and disbursement activities. While all of these are important, special attention
needs to be paid to the following as they relate to the Grant Agreement:
    Disbursement Category Maximums. Each disbursement category in the project has a
    maximum expenditure limit against which the project will disburse. These limits apply to the
    project as a whole (not to a single year). Exceeding the limits requires a re-allocation of
    expenditure categories which will require approval of World Bank management.
    Procurement Methods Maximums. Procurement method maxima apply to some procurement
    methods, notably the simpler forms involving local shopping or force account. While these
    methods are in principle allowed for moderate-sized expenditures following within the
    individual purchase thresholds, doing so may cause the cumulative threshold (maximum) to be
    reached before project completion. In that event, more complicated bidding procedures may
    be requiredeven for subsequent small purchases.
    Sub-project Rules. Sub-projects are eligible for 100%disbursement. The reason for this i s that
    it is assumedthat communities will often provide other services incash or kind, inthe form of
    time, services, or land. Some monetary value should be attached to this local contribution for
    reporting purposes, and to indicate the impact and leveragingeffectiveness o f project funds.




                                                 - 170-

                Summary information on the design features of ICEMA's M&E system

(i)Resourcestosupportthedevelopmentandimplementationofthem&esystematnationalandlocal
as well as at PO levelhavebeenearmarked inprojectcomponents 2,3 and4.

(ii) PDF B resources were used to fund (i)a pilot study to collect data for the development of
biodiversity and other key ecologicalindices in selected conservancies, (ii) development of a m&e
                                                                           the
manual in consultationwith all stake holders; the development of an initial CBNRM and ICEMA's
communication strategy, thereby providing the framework for knowledge management and leaming
processes.

(iii) monitoringframework concentratesonmeasuringimpactofGEFinvestments,financialand
      The
physical processes, community empowerment and leaming, participatory processes and project
management.

(iv) An annual external audit of the m&e system will provide for quality enhancement and adaptation
o f the indicatorsandthe system.

(v) Local level m&e plan: The project will support targeted conservancies within the expanding
national conservancy program. It i s expected that each targeted conservancy, after having received
adequate training, will develop and implement a specific, tailor-made and participatory M&E plan
basedon a detailedbaselineassessmentof the current resource/ecosystemstatus and impact.

(vi) The project supports the recruitmentof a part-timem&e coordinator for the set-up and overseeing
of the national, regionaland local levelm&e system.

(vii) Trainingworkshops right from the beginningwill ensure that the system is understoodand owned
by all partners(MET staffand targetedconservancymembers).

(viii) Specific project performance monitoring: The PO will monitor progress towards achievementof
the development and global project objectives, project outcomes, and activities using the progress
reports, approved work programmes and the overall logframe indictors presented in Annex 1. The
Project performance monitoring will be camed out using the management information system (MIS)
that provides informationon all aspects of projectactivities and costs as well as proceduresestablished
inthe m&e manual such as periodicprogressreports.There shall also beperiodicmonitoringto identify
lessonsthat may contributeto improving the performanceof similar projectsand the sector as a whole.
The aim is to determine the relevance and fulfillment of project objectives, development efficiency,
effectiveness, impact and sustainability. There will be mid-term review in (2006/2007) and an
implementationcompletionreport, as well as monitoringof Safeguardelements. The recommendations
of the Mid-Termreviewwill be incorporatedinthe work programmesfor the remainingyears, and final
evaluation completed at the end of the Phase. The progress reports will address the following
operational items regarding the success of the project implementation (i)     extent of achievement of
outputs, (ii) carrying out of activities, (iii)delivery of inputs (staff time inputs, training events,
investments), (iv) possible changes in the programme environment and their effects, and (v)
expendituresvs. budgetsbased on the agreedbreakdownstructure (e.g. recurrent, investments, training,
consultancies).




                                               - 171 -

                 Additional Annex 19: Community-Funding Facility (CFF)
        NAMIBIA: Integrated Community-BasedEcosystem Management (ICEMA)


The ICEMA project's on-the-ground actions (component 1 and component 2) will be targeted to
communally managed lands that focus on Namibia's conservancy network. The project builds on
the encouraging achievements o f the National CBNRM Program related to community-based
wildlife management activities but focuses on a broader range of sustainable ecosystem based
livelihood options that can generate long term benefits. Its overall objective i s to contribute to
increased socioeconomic benefits to community members from the sustainable use o f their rich
and diverse ecosystems.
The community-funding facility (CFF) under its component 1provides funds directly to registered
communal conservancies (and potentially, if and when they are established at some future date,
registered community-forests) for ecosystem-based income-generating activities that generates
equitable benefits to their conservancy members. The closely inter-related sub-componentsof its
component 1are:
(i) Community Funding Facility (CFF): The sub-component includes delivery o f sub-projects
(micro-projects) to eligible conservancies that will be used to fund appropriate sustainable use
community-based sub-projects for multiplebenefits to the community and ecosystem. CFF criteria
will target   a diversity o f sub-projects     in wildlife,   eco-tourism   activities (such as
community-campsites, community-eco-lodges, guides), sustainable land management and forestry,
as well as multi-sector (e.g. example activities are the development of small-scale enterprises,
game products, forestry products, value-added processing (craft)).
This sub-component finances IO0 % of eligible sub-project expenditures.

(ii) Capacity Building and Technical Assistance (TA): This sub-component focuses on technical
assistance and training for business plan development, implementation and evaluation. Further, it
provides for TA prior to sub-project implementation or for other support such as feasibility
studies to identify and assess costs and benefits for new ecosystem-based income-generating
opportunities. For this purpose, funding is also made available to non-conservancy entities
(NGOs, private sector, individual consultants) in such a support role. The MET/PO will also
assist through its network o f CBNRM officers or through relevant technical directorates.
This subcomponent uses standard procurement methods as described for other ICEMA Project
components. When support is not given directly by MET/PO, the intermediary is referred to as a
Contracted Service Provider (CSP).




                                             - 172-

  ICEMA SimplifiedFundingStructureshowingPositionof CommunityFundingFacility
                                                 (CFF)




Preparation of ConservancyBusiness Plans (sub-component 1.2)
This will form a core activity in support of preparing sub-projects with regard to community
participation. In deciding the specific activity for a given site, two critical factors must be
considered. First, the sustainability o f the basic resource on which the activity is based. Second i s
the potential to augment net income to the community members ina sustainable manner.
Communities will be given greater responsibility inplanning their own actions for development as
this approach is more likely to create support for those actions and inthe longer term are more
likely to succeed due to sense o f responsibility and ownership o f the asset created. As such, the
Community Driven Development (CDD) model will be adopted which demands community



                                                 - 173-

participation at every stage of the sub-project cycle - from needs identification and prioritization,
preparation, appraisal (desk and field) and approval, implementation, supervision, monitoring and
evaluation to completion.

Identification and Sensitization (sub-component 1.2):
The Dissemination Strategy o f the CFF will seek to provide equal access to information about the
CFF to all stakeholders including communities, local government functionaries, politicians,
contractors, suppliers, NGOs, Conservancies to ensure transparent functioning o f the project. The
information will explain key design principles, participatory planning processes, criteria for
sub-project fimding, etc. The existing community sensitization and mobilization mechanism will be
used for example, town criers, songs and plays, posters, etc. Sensitization would also focus on
project objectives and brochures guiding this process would be produced in English and local
languages.
For any given Recipient, the Contracted Service Provider or MET/PO will use participatory
techniques to mobilize community members, identify and prioritize needs, and develop a
comprehensive business plan using the conservancy or as the physical planning unit. The process
could last up to 6 months. Communities together with the Contracted Service Provider or
MET/PO will provide concrete suggestions as to how their problems can be overcome and how
much financial and nonfinancial support they will require from the program. The Contracted
Service Provider or MET/PO will primarily provide technical advice and help in quantifying and
refining the options proposed by the community. The participatory process will ensure that
dissenting voices are heard and that consensus i s built around the plan. I t i s envisioned that each
conservancy business plan will identify several potential sub-projects.

In support of this, the information dissemination will be in the form of a kit that will provide
communities with all necessary information for working with relevant information about project
procedures, sub-project application forms, guidelines which describe the types of projects, and
project selection criteria. In addition, the kit will include a basic handbook for communities that
will use simple language/illustration and cartoons to explain guidelines for sub-project
preparation, implementation, supervision, operation and maintenance. The handbook will also
provide basic guidelines for identifying and assessing environmental impacts and planning for
mitigation measures.
The kit and handbook should be easily accessible to Conservancies and can be made available
through the MET/PO and other facilitators. As much as possible, information provided must be in
the local languages and with easy to understand illustrations.


Sub-projects under CFF (sub-component 1.1.) :



                       Phase 1                 Phase 2                Phase 3

Stage                  Planning and            Implementation         Management and
                       Identification                                 Operation



                                                 - 174-

I Duration               .-6 months             5-24 months             ingoing

                         Assistance to          Specific sub-project    4ssistance to
                         Conservancies,         investments             1
                                                                        "onservancies,
                         NGOs, Private          undertakenby            ?IGOs, Private
                         Sector, or             Conservancies           Sector, or
                         individuals to help                            individuals to help
                         develop - ina          [mplementation          aonitor the
                         participatory          support for the         sub-project
                         process:               sub-project will        xtivities through:
                         Conservancy            form part o f the       mentoring
                         Business Plans;        sub-project             xtivities;
                         Feasibility Studies    application.            :ross-exchange
                         for individual                                 visits; or other
                         subproject                                     activities as
                         applications.                                  identified upon
                         Eligibleoperational                            sub-project closing.
                         costs o f METlPO                               Eligible operational
I                        will also be                                   costs o f MET/PO
                         covered.                                       will also be

                         Support may extend                             covered.

                         nto the
                         mplementationPhasf
                         fnecessary.

  Typical funding        Approximately          Maximum*                Approximately 50%
  levels:                 10%-50% O f           (-N$500,000)            of sub-project
                         sub-project                                    investment;
                         investment;            Typical                 depending on local
                         depending on local     (-N$250,000)             capacity.
                         capacity. Costs         *GEF Portfolio
                         include safeguard      limitof 2 (two)
                         screening and EIA       sub-projects that
                         where necessary.       exceed this
                                                threshold.

World Bank safegua: procedures as reflected inthe ESA, IPDP and RPF are integratec
into the sub-project preparationprocess, and will be used for screening (and modifying)
applications during the Desk and FieldAppraisals.

  Community "Self Help" Contribution: Eligible sub-project expenditures are 100% financed if
  they meet the self-help requirements. If a sub-project does not meet the self-help requirements,
  then the sub-project i s not financed. The self-help itself contribution i s not an eligible expenditure.
  Every sub-project proposalmust contain an estimate o f the community contribution to the activity
  inqualitative andmonetary terms. As a general guideline, the valuation ofthis contribution should
  not be less than 10% o f the sub-project amount applied for (example: for a N$200,000


                                                  - 175-

application, the local contribution shouldhave a cash or in-kindvalue o f at least N$20,000).
Recipient: An ICEMA recipient community shall be a registered conservancy or community
forest within the ICEMA Project Area. Two or more eligible recipient communities that are close
together may combine to form a joint proposal for a sub-project. In such cases, one of the
recipient communities will take a lead role for management purposes.
Thresholds: The normal threshold for sub-projects will be N$500,000. Projects above these
thresholds will be considered but will be subject to the following additional constraints: (i)
GEF-ICEMA funds will be available for at most two such sub-projects. These sub-projects will be
subject to prior review through standard WB Supervision protocols; (ii)Sub-project financial
management and procurement will be more closely scrutinized by the MET/PO with same prior
review thresholds as for the ICEMA project as a whole; (iii)   The community ownership proposals
for such sub-projects (see below) must include explicit discussion o f the ownership structure and,
if 100% of the investment is not owned by the community at turn-over, the plan must include a
mechanism that specifies the period and means for assuring eventual 100%community ownership.


Ownership Proposal: Each sub-project proposal will include an ownership statement that affirms
that the beneficiary o f the sub-project i s the conservancies and that 100% ownership of any
equipment, works or other property (including intellectual property) resides with the
conservancies upon project closure. If the sub-project contribution is a contribution to a
joint-venture arrangement (with the private sector), then the ownership proposal must contain a
detailed description o f the ownership structure o f the joint venture. Such J V s will only be
considered for sub-project requests in excess of N$250,000; sub-projects below this threshold
must show 100%ownership by the conservancies.
Distribution of Sub-Projects: The intent of ICEMA is to develop a diversity of sub-projects
across a broad spectrum o f potential eco-tourism, wildlife, sustainable land management and
forestry opportunities. For the first year, no specific targeting i s included but such targeting may
be introduced in later years o f the project (2-5) if the portfolio o f projects does not exhibit an
adequate distribution. Such targeting criteria may be introduced at the time o f the annual work
plan.
Replication of Sub-Projects: The intent of ICEMA is to provide replication opportunities for
successful sub-project activities. A Replication Plan will be developed for the project as a whole
at the time o f mid-term review (Year 3). At that stage, the replication plan may -based on lessons
learned from the first 2 project years - call for the introduction o f additional criteria to ensure
successful replication o f successful activities.

Positive list of sub-projects: These are sub-projects that are eligible for GEF assistance under
the ICEMA project. Primarily, sub-projects to help support ecosystem-based income generating
activities must provide some reasonableprospectfor generating income to the Recipient andfor
contributing    and acting as a catalyst to the sustainable management of the important
ecosystems targeted by this project.          All sub-projects will be demand-driven but any one
sub-project may include the following "primary activities'' or some combination thereof:

o   Community woodlots usingindigenous species.
o   Managednatural Mopane woodlands for sustainable production o f non-timber forest


                                                 - 176-

   products.
0  Nurseries raising seedlings of indigenous economic trees, indigenous grass species and
   indigenous medicinal plants.
0  Agro-forestry usingindigenous species.
0  Homesteadfishproduction usingindigenous species.
0  Cottage industries(handicrafts, pottery).
0  Small-scale post harvest infrastructure (e.g. for Devil's Claw).
0  Bee-keeping (Apiculture).
0  Wild Silk.
0  Eco-tourism Camps.
0  GuidingFacilities.
0  Eco-lodges.
0  Tannery/Leather Making from game.
0  Trophy Mounting.
0  Venison Processing.
0  Biltong Production.
0  Traditional Village or Cultural Center.
0  Rehabilitation of eco-tourism infrastructure and facilities.
0  Rehabilitation o f eco-tourism access infrastructure such as feeder roads, bridges, culverts,
   viewing sites and sign posts.
0  Reclamation of degraded land in support o f an eligible associatedincome generating
   opportunity.
0  Soil erosion control insupport of an eligible associated income generating opportunity.

Although sub-projects will include activities to be specified by the communities, certain activities
will not be eligible for GEF fuflding due to the operational focus o f GEF and the need to
discourage activities that contribute to loss of biodiversity or to land degradation. Examples of
sub-projects on the negative list, include, but are not limitedto:

0   Social infrastructure (unless it falls withinthe 25% guideline)
0  Income generating activities that are not connected to ecosystem services or resources (unless
    such activities fall within the 25% guideline
0   Agricultural activities that would result ina net loss o f forests
0   Agricultural expansion.
0   Large scale agricultural activities.
0   Commercial logging.
0   Forestry production projects especially conversion o f hill forest land to other land use.
0   Large Scale Drainage and Irrigation including:
   o   Construction o f dams and reservoirs.
   o   Artificial enlargement o f lakes with surface areas o f 20ha or more.
   o   Drainage of wetland wildlife habitat or of virgin forest covering an area of 5ha or more.
   o   Irrigation schemes covering an area o f 50ha or more per community.
0   Activities that would impact cultural property.
0   Acquisition of land (whether individually or communally owned).
0   Housing development.
0   Large scale industrialplants and industrial estates including major expansion, rehabilitationor


                                                 - 177-

   modification.
0  New land development.
0  River basin development (Le., large scale development and constructioninriparian areas that
   would impact downstream systems).
0  Manufacture, transportationand use of pesticides or other hazardous and/or toxic materials.
0  New construction or major upgradingo f roads or highways.
0  Construction of ports.
0  Miningand Quarries.
0  FirewoodProduction or Briquette Manufacture.
0  Construction of railways.
0  Power generation and transmission.
0  Any form o f physical resettlement.
0  Construction or rehabilitationo f places of worship.
0  Waste treatment and disposal.
0  Animal farming (i.e., animals that would negatively impact on biodiversity goals).
0  Petrol Stations or Mechanical Shops.

The stages in the sub-project process are as follows:
               1. Preparationo f Sub-Project (conservancy with support from CSP, MET/PO)
               2. Submissiono f Sub-project Proposal (MET/PO)
               3. Desk Appraisal (CSP or MET/PO)
               4. FieldAppraisal (CSP or MET/PO)
               5. Returned for Correction
               6. Approval by MET/PO
               7. Approval and Launch

Selection o f Sub-projects will be done through the ICEMA Project Office (MET/PO) using
standard selection methods. The financing agreement with the recipient community should include
an indicative procurement plan. More details regarding sub-project preparation, approval and
launch, implementation, completion and monitoring are contained in the CFF manual of
operational guidelines and procedures (part o f the P I M and closely linked to the Financial and
Administrative Manual).




                                              -178-

Additional Annex 20: Local governance and participation in communal conservancies
        NAMIBIA: Integrated Community-Based Ecosystem Management (ICEMA)

This annex aims to present the mainparticipatory elements o f the National CBNRM Programand
the communal conservancy management to date. It hrther highlightsareas to be strengthened in
the future as well as ICEMA's contribution to this process.

1. Concept of participation

The level o f increasing participation of individuals in planning, implementation and
monitoring/evaluation processes in a given community can be described (and measured) generally
in5 stances:

1. Information: Most important first step to legitimate participation with integrated feed-back
    loops avoiding only a one way flow of information.
2. Consultation: The second legitimate step based on presentation o f several options and
    consequent feed-back from community members.
3. Joint decision-making: Encouragement to provide additional ideas and options before coming
    to ajoint agreement on the best way forward.
4. Joint acting: People form partnerships to carry out joint decisions and then review those
    actions to see what happened.
5. Support independent community initiatives: Providing assistanceto others do what they want,
    perhaps with a framework o f advice, grants and other support provided by the resource
    holder.

2. Support to conservancy formation and management by the two mainstakeholders of the
NationalCBNRM Program:MET andNGOs

(i) Ministry of Environment and Tourism: The MET is the lead agency for the National
CBNRM program (see C.4). MET field staff play the main implementing role within the MET in
working with conservancies. This includes: accompanying conservancy formation, providing
ongoing extension and support services and building a continued dialogue with conservancies.
MET'Sfield-based resource persons include:
Information Wardens/Rangers: Responsible for providing initial information to communities
about conservancies.
Local Management WardedRangers: Local Management Wardens and Rangers form the
"frontline" of MET staff working,with conservancies. They are involvedinassisting conservancies
to meet the conditions for registration and in following the steps set out inthe formation process.
Continuity and appropriate skills to carry out these tasks are key for ,success. Management
Wardens provide also technical extension support to communities for wildlife and naturalresource
management (e.g. problem animal control, use o f water points, fencing, development o f
management plans, etc.)
Regional Biologist: Assists conservancies in developing their management plans and aspects o f
wildlife and natural resource utilization, including quota setting and monitoring. The Regional
Biologist assists in providing information on the resource base, options for utilization, habitat


                                               -179-

management, etc.

Inaddition, as described inthe main section, all technical directorates ofMET are involved inthe
National CBNRM Program:
Community-based Natural Resource Management Unit: The Community-Based Natural
Resource Management (CBNRM) Support Unit i s located within the Directorate o f Resource
Management (DRM). This unit i s specifically responsible for coordinating issues related to
community-based conservation throughout the country. It i s also responsible for coordinating
issues related to conservancies and conservancy formation, requestingassistance from NGOs, or
other Ministries, and providing technical support to management and information field staff
working with conservancies.
Community-based Tourism Officer: The community-based tourism officer and his colleague in
the Policy Planning and Information Unit of the Directorate o f Tourism, provide support for
conservancies on issues related to tourism development within the conservancy, they pay
particular attention to the development o f relationships with private companies and the
development o f skill and expertise.
Directorate of Environmental Affairs (DEA): The natural resource economists within the DEA
provide economic analysis for determining the economic viability of utilization options and of
individual conservancies and enterprises. The DEA continues to provide liaison and coordination
within the Ministry and with other complementary support provided through other Ministries,
NGOs, and other donors. The DEA liaise with other ministries over policy issues related to
community-based conservation such as land tenure, grazing rights, etc. The Natural Resource
Specialist in the DEA i s responsible for providing support to communities in mapping and
monitoring the resource base and inliaising closely with Resource Management.
Directorate of Forestry: This Directorate has developed new legislation which makes provisions
for the establishment of Community Forest Reserves. These are similar inprinciple and practice to
conservancies. Where conservancies and community forest reserves overlap, they should be
managed by the same committees for forest resources, wildlife and other natural resources.
Forestry officials will work with conservancies where appropriate and Resource Management
officials will assist with wildlife management withincommunity forest reserves once established.

(ii)Non-GovernmentalOrganizations (NGOs): For conservancies to succeed, communities
need to establish institutions which are representative and accountable, which can distribute
benefits equitably and which can eventually manage natural resources and the ecosystem
effectively. Communities need a considerable amount of support in developing these institutions
and in identifying key issues which need to be addressed. NGOs provide a number o f crucial
services and skills, particularly within the field o f community development, that do not fall under
the immediate role o f the Ministry. A healthy relationship between the MET and the NGOs is
therefore be of great benefit to local communities. An association o f institutions and organizations
from all levels that provide support to the conservancies has been established: the "Namibian
Association of CBNRM support organizations", also called NACSO. The MET has and i s
continuing to develop partnerships with NGOs and/or contract NGO to implement certain
activities for which the NGOs have a comparative advantage (e.g. community awareness
campaigns, community training, workshop facilitation, etc.)




                                                 -180-

Communal Area Conservancy Formation: Conservancies are not proclaimed land like game
reserves and national parks. Conservancies are formed by a group of communal area residents
who have the common purpose o f managing their ecosystems sustainably and developing, for
example, wildlife-based tourism activities on their land. The need and desire for forming;
conservancies therefore has to come from the communities themselves. The MET and
non-governmental organizations (NGOs) can inform communities about conservancies and the
rights and responsibilities that are attached to them, but they are not intended to play a role in
terms of actively establishing conservancies. The supportive role implies that the MET, NGOs and
others need to place a high degree o f emphasis on facilitation o f the process o f conservancy
formation.

Steps in Conservancy Formation
1. MET/NGOs provide information on conservanciesto communities;
2. Community informs the MET of its potential interest to form a conservancy;
3. MET and community jointly carry out a brief viability study;
4. Communities identify members and select committees;
5, Conservancy defines physical boundaries;
6. Conservancy develops constitution (which shows commitment to - and strategy for -
    sustainable management and utilization o f wildlife and natural resources within the
    conservancy);
7. Conservancy applies to MET for registration as per guidelines;
8. Conservancy i s registeredby MET and gazetted;
9. Conservancy becomes operational and develops enterprises.

Once a prospective conservancy has applied successfully to the MET for registrationandhas been
gazetted, the conservancy owns the huntable game (kudu, oryx, sprinbok, bushpig, buffalo and
warthog) and other natural resources within it. It i s now able to apply to the MET for permits for
the use of protected and specially protected game. It is also able to buy and sell game in
accordance with the provisions o f the legal framework. All revenue from the use o f game and
natural resources will be retained by the conservancy. A conservancy is able to apply for
registration as a hunting farm and gain the right to carry out trophy-hunting within the
conservancy.

3. The CBNRM local level institutionalframework in Namibia

Conservancy Committees       - thebasic local level institution:
Good governance i s an implicit aim o f the conservancy policy and legislation. The conservancy
committee i s expected to be sufficiently representative o f the community residing in the
conservancy. It represents the conservancy's executive body. The conservancy members are
elected or appointed representatives o f the community. Some committees are made up o f
members representing individual villages within the conservancy (this i s particularly important for
large conservancies with several different villages and groups included), while in other cases
committee elections are held for the whole conservancy area (and without geographical
representation). The conservancy committee has the responsibility for - and rights to-


                                               -181-

consumptive and non-consumptive management and sustainable use of other natural resources on
behalf o f the members of the conservancy. The conservancy committee has also right to enter into
agreements with other parties, such as the private sector, for the joint tourism ventures. The
committee should have the ability to effectively manage the income and funds o f the conservancy
and has appropriate methods for equitable distribution of financial benefits to members. The
conservancy committee must undertake to keep the members o f the conservancy fully informed
regarding decisions taken, as well as income and expenditures.

The main functions and duties o fa conservancy management committee are:
0  To represent the interests o f the conservancy members in matters related to natural resource
   management and use inthe conservancy;
0  To oversee the management o f conservancy income and expenditure;
0  To represent the conservancy innegotiations with the private sector;
0  To discuss policy issues with the MET;
0  To arrange annual meetings o f the conservancy;
0  To keep conservancy members informed and consulted on critical issues such as the
   distribution o f money and other resources;
0  To apply to the MET regional head for the quotas for the use o f wildlife and other natural
   resources;
0  To determine what technical assistance is needed from MET and other support organizations;
0  To determine training needs for the conservancy;
0  To initiate projects for improved natural resource utilization and management;
0  To establish a practical problem animal management plan;
0  To develop tourism initiatives within the conservancy;
0  To manage, ifnecessary, a community/conservancy game guard system;

Conservancy members attend Annual General Meetings (AGMs) where they receive feedback
from the committee and are able to vote for new committee members. Attendance at conservancy
meetings, including AGMs varies from area to area. The large size of some conservancies inthe
northwest makes attendance difficult for many people and in the north east, the size o f the
membership often makes it difficult to disseminate information about meetings. However,
attendance at meetings also depends upon the extent to which members feel that their interests
and priorities are being met by the conservancy, or whether they have a grievance to raise.
Conservancy support organizations are providing support to ensure that public meetings are held
to discuss the conservancy and selection process o f the committee. Special efforts are made to
ensure that all sections o f conservancy area residents are included in meetings, in particular
women and minority groups.

CommunalArea ConservancyConstitution:
The constitution o fa communal area conservancy aims to do five things:
a   Meet the legal requirements o f the amended Nature Conservation Ordinance which makes
    provision for communal are conservancies;
0   Meet the requirements for giving the conservancy constitution legal status under common law;
0   Satisfy the MET that there is a real commitment to sustainable management o f wildlife and
    that the conservancy will draw up a Management Plan once established;


                                              - 182-

     Provide for the operational arrangements o f the conservancy (e.g. election o f the committee,
     holdingo f meetings, financial matters, etc. )
0    Express the particular objectives, interests, needs, etc. o f a specific community;

 The constitution therefore needs to be flexible while at the same time satisfying the above
 requirements. Certain elements o f the constitution are be the same for all conservancies (e.g.
 existence o f membership definition) while others are not (type of membership definition). A
 Model Communal Area Conservancy Constitution i s available from the MET which aims to meet
 all requirements as defined per legislation, but also provides enough flexibility to allow adaptation
 according to individual conservancy needs.

Conservancy Management Plans:
While the conservancy constitution outlines the goals and objectives of the conservancy, the
current management plan spells out the management guidelines and activities as well as resource
utilization and monitoring activities including:
0    Determining o f quotas for hunting and other forms o f naturalresource use;
0    Monitoring and recording indicators such as precipitation, vegetation, habitat cover, land
     degradation, status o f natural resources;
0    Recording wildlife numbers and impact of management and utilization;
     .Definingareas of differentlanduses such as core wildlife areas, tourism concessions,multiple
     use zones, etc.

4. Achievements inlocal governance and participation to date
Due to a given mix o f geographic, socio-economic, environmental and resource-based elements
and conditions, every conservancy has to develop its own approach for conservancy planning,
management and evaluation. While there is considerable variation inparticipation o f conservancy
members in key decisions between around the country, the conservancies have and continue to
provide an important vehicle for the development o f democratic governance at local level. Most
o f Namibia's conservancies are representational democracies. Perhaps one o f the most important
impacts of the new institutions has been the extent to which they can represent the interests o f
conservancy members to outsiders such as government andNGOs.

With the help of donor-evaluations and other lessons from the past years of the National CBNRM
Program, the following positive trends of the current situation can be generally presented:




                                                  -183-

         Community decision-makingprocesseshave beenstrengthened
         Community leaders are held accountablefor their actions
         Transparentleadershipis encouraged
     o Increasedparticipation by women indecision-makingprocesses(e.g. about one
         infour committeemembersare women)
         Peoplehave developedimprovedself-confidenceand the sophisticationto
         manageand benefit from their own naturalresourcesandplantheir own
         livelihoods
     o Femaleconservancyresourcemonitors(use ofnon-wildlife resourcessuch as
         palm for basketry, thatching grass and veld foods) joinedthe male conservancy
         game guards inmany conservanciesandchannel women's views to decision-
         makersthroughtheir report back
         Traditional authoritiesareusually representedon the committee


On the other side, weaknesses can be summarized as follows:


       Committeesare "elected" inways that may not be very democratic (election dates
       are often inexistent)
       The dependenceon grant funding meansthat conservancy committeesare in
       particular accountable upwards andmight not place sufficient emphasis on
       accountability mechanismwith their conservancy membership.
       Conservancycommitteemembers are also highly responsive to externalsupport
       andtraining, with the consequencethat committeemembers are considerably
       empowered, which might create anunbalance indecision-makingprocesses.
       Committeemembers face difficulties incommunicatingwith their constituents
       Committeemembers are combining the role of decision-makingrepresentative
       with many day-to-daymanagementactivities which becomesoften demanding
       and time consuming
       Benefitdistribution and implementationofrevenuesharinglaggedbehind
       schedule due to internalcommunity disagreementonbenefituse andlack of
       guidelines for benefit schemes.



5. Tasks and challenges for the future to improve local governance and participation
More attention will need to be given to developing approaches based on participatory rather than
representative democracy in order to prevent that power and decision-making i s centralized only
at the conservancy committee level. Some conservancies are experimenting with various levels of
devolution o f power to more participatory decision-making (e.g. #Khoadi //hoas and Kwandu).

Ongoing and future efforts to further advance good governance and to achieve institutional
sustainability through the CBNRM programme focus on the following aspects:
a. There needs to be a greater separation in conservancies of day-to-day management and
    broader coordination and policy direction functions (e.g. committee coordinates and a
    manager carries out operational activities);
b. The flow of information between conservancy committees and members needs to be
    improved;



                                                - 184-

C.  Continued efforts for the promotion o f participatory democracy within conservancies and the
    use o f more localizedunits of decision-making needto be made;
d. Decision-making processes within conservancies and their committees need to conform more
    closely to the informal, subtle and flexible processesthat communitiesuse themselves;
e. Continued efforts for monitoring the regularity, participation and content o f community
    general meetings at local andregional andnational level need to be made;
 f. Usingthe RegionalDevelopmentCoordinating Committees as aneffective andregular way of
    the conservancy's and community contribution to the coordination o f sectoral input and local
    development. The RDCCs are operating within the framework o f the Decentralization Policy
    o f 1997 which provides for the full devolution of powers and functions relating to i.e.
    conservation, to Regional Councils. Roles and responsibilities o f conservancies within the
    RDCCs need to be clearly defined.
g.  Regular representation o f conservancies on the other important local decision making
    structures like Land Boards, which are responsible for the allocation o f land in communal
    areas under the National land Policy o f 1998 and the Communal LandReform Act of 2002;
h. Continued efforts to forge positive relationships with traditional authorities. The Traditional
    Authorities Act o f 2000, designates Traditional Authorities as custodians o f natural resources,.
    and also gives them the mandate to settle disputes within their communities. Although
    Traditional Authorities have no legal linkages with community resource management
    institutions established under sectoral policies and legislation, it has been common practice to
    date to have them represented on conservancy committees;
 i.Strengthen cooperation between community resource management institutions and land
    control bodies, e.g Traditional Authorities and Land Boards.

6. ICEMA's contribution
 i.TheICEMAprojectbuildsonthepreviouslessonslearnedandachievementsdescribedabove
    and has been carefully designed throughout the preparation process with all stakeholders to
    reflect these findings. Several field visits to conservancies and detailed consultation with
    conservancy committee members allowed to verify the proposed arrangements and adjust as
    needed.
 11. Two out o f its   4 components focus on on-the-ground investments to targeted communal
     conservancies and capacity building for conservancy members (planning, management and
... monitoring and evaluation).
111. The Community-Funding Facility will provide direct grant funding to conservancy members
     for their ecosystem-based income-generating sub-project (see annex 19).
iv. Component 3 provides additional institutional support to targeted conservancy committees for
    their day-to-day management (capacity-building but also financial support for operational
     management). It i s important to notice that capacity-building needs will be definedjointly with
     community and conservancy committee members and will always be target-driven (to achieve
     a certain objective).
 V.  Component 3 further aims to foster the creation o f conservancy associations hereby enhancing
    their empowerment indiscussions with Government and other partners.
vi. ICEMA supports the integratedecosystem planning and management under one management
     structure (avoiding multiple resource management committees e.g. for wildlife, forestry,
     water, fisheries, etc.).


                                                 -185-

vii. ICEMA supports the partnership principle between the main CBNRM stakeholders through
      the CBNRM Consultative Forum which i s expected to comprise CBO representatives, MET
      and other ministries, NGOs, private sector and donors.
viii. ICEMA might in due course also support future community forests (to be established under
      the Forestry Act) and their local level institutions, the community forest committees,
 ix. If the annual work program triggers any safeguard actions (EIA, resettlement, indigenous
     people), further additional participatory processes called for under the three safeguard
      documents (EIA, RPF, IPDP) will become effective.
  x. The Technical and Scientific Advisory Roster (TSAR), to be established through ICEMA, will
      include at least one social scientist to provide guidance and technical support to the project
      stakeholders on community-development andparticipationissues as needed.




                                                   -186-

MAP SECTIOX


