                                Updated Project Information Document (PID)
                                                                                              Report No: AB644

Project Name                   NAMIBIA - Integrated Community-Based Ecosystem Management (ICEMA)
Region                         Africa Regional Office
Sector                         General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (100%)
Theme                          Biodiversity (P); Environmental policies and institutions (P); Land management
                               (S)
Project                        P073135
Borrower(s)                    REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA
Implementing Agency(ies)       MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT AND TOURISM (MET)
                               Ministry of Environment and Tourism (MET)
                               Address: Private Bag 13306, Windhoek, Namibia
                               Contact Person: Dr. Malan Lindeque, Permanent Secretary
                               Tel: +264-61-2842185          Fax: +264-61-284 2216           Email:
                               mlindeque@met.gov.na, malan.l@mweb.com.na
Environment Category           B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID Prepared              June 8, 2004
Auth Appr/Negs Date            January 28, 2004
Bank Approval Date             June 1, 2004

1. Country and Sector Background
The 1991 census data indicated that 67.6 % of the population (1,8 million) lives in the rural
communal areas. Half of the total population is considered to be living below the poverty line.
Rural communities depend almost exclusively on livestock and dryland-cropping and other related
natural resource-based activities. Natural resource management and local, national and global
environmental protection in Namibia involves a broad range of public (Government, mainly
Ministry of Environment and Tourism (MET), Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Rural
Development (MAWRD), Ministry of Lands, Resettlement and Rehabilitation (MLRR) and
Ministry of Regional and Local Government and Housing (MRLGH) and private stakeholders
(rural communities, NGOs, conservancies and private sector). Three inter-linked priority issues
for these target groups need to be stressed: (i) Conservation and sustainable use of Namibia's
biodiversity and resource base; (ii) Capacity for scaling-up Community-based Natural Resource
Management (CBNRM); and, (iii) Livelihood options fur rural communities.

Conservation and sustainable use of Namibia's biodiversity and resource base
Namibia's ecosystems provide essential life sustaining services (food, fibre, medicine, tourism
opportunities, shelter, etc.) and vital genetic material (required to enhance domestic crop and
livestock species). Direct and indirect use (crop cultivation, woodlands, drylands, wetlands and
marine fisheries; non-consumptive tourism and trophy hunting) of Namibia's biodiversity
contributes to an estimated 40 % of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The most important wild
products include: meat, thatching grass, medicinal products and veld foods (from nuts, fruits,
leaves, roots and bark), firewood, wood for construction and woodcarving. Wildlife harvesting
represents the base of subsistence economies in rural areas (an estimate of 33 % total household
consumption in rural areas comes from wild foods). These livelihood options depend greatly on
the ecosystem characteristics.

                                                  2
                                                                                                  PID




The greater part of Namibia consists of arid and semi-arid rangelands with little to no permanent
surface water. These areas, while being less diverse, support the megafauna such as wildebeest,
buffalo, giraffe, zebra, oryx, kudu, eland, hartebeest, springbok, etc. and their associated large
predators, including lion, cheetah and hyaena. Other areas have particularly high proportions of
endemic species, endemic to both the southern African subregion and to Namibia. The southern
African endemics are part of the so-called "south-west arid" zone, which encompasses the
Kalahari ecosystem. Nowadays, Namibia's arid savanna systems and dry woodland areas have
reverted to savanna-type systems as a result of land degradation processes and extensive
deforestation. The results of increasing bush encroachment, soil erosion and soil salinization are
causes of economic loss and escalating poverty through declining agricultural production and a
loss of food security. Namibia's northern areas contain highly diverse ecosystems, particularly at
the interface of wetlands, riparian belts and dry woodlands. They support important populations
of globally threatened species, including desert elephant, wild dog, wattled crane and slaty egret.
It can be assumed, that these areas that have the highest human population and livestock densities
and that have been subject to extensive land clearing are those that have suffered the highest
losses in biodiversity.

While 14% of Namibia has been set aside as state-controlled parks and reserves, the protected
area network is heavily skewed towards the Namib biome, leaving savannas, woodlands and
Karoo biome badly underrepresented (only 4 of 13 vegetation types are comprehensively
protected). Further, entire vegetation types are wholly unprotected and face imminent threat of
degradation from the growing needs of Namibia's human population. However, currently 17
registered conservancies are adjacent to Protected Areas (PA) and thereby increasing the viability
of these PAs. Most of the valuable forests are found in the north of the country and are situated
on communal land. Forests constitute an important resource for rural communities because of
their wood products, habitat and potential role in providing locations for community-based
tourism. Overexploitation of forests and uncontrolled cutting of trees for various purposes in the
North is prevalent and woodland is cleared for shifting cultivation. State regulation of wildlife and
forest products is extremely difficult to enforce due to large distances from administrative centers
and lack of government resources.

The three main land/resource use activities which impact the sustainable management and use
options for the key Namibian ecosystems are (i) livestock keeping, (ii) wild natural resource use,
and (iii) community tourism activities. Without an integrated ecosystem management planning
framework, human settlers and livestock may compete with wildlife for sparse sources of water
and grazing in highly fragile ecosystems that could most appropriately be managed and sustainably
utilized as for example wildlands for Namibia's rapidly growing high value ecotourism market.

Government strategy:
Namibia is one of very few countries in the world that enshrines the concept of environmental
protection in its Constitution. Article 95 (1) of the Constitution states the following: "The State
shall actively promote and maintain the welfare of the people by adopting policies aimed at the
following: Maintenance of ecosystems, essential ecological processes and biological diversity of
Namibia and utilization of living natural resources on a sustainable basis for the benefit of all

                                                 3
                                                                                                 PID


Namibians, both present and future". A key part of the government's environmental and
biodiversity strategy in rural Namibia is the development and implementation of the National
CBNRM Program, for which the Ministry of Environment and Tourism is the lead agency. The
National CBNRM Programme is an important mechanism for implementing the goals and policies
of the Government of Namibia to fulfill the constitutional obligation of utilizing natural resources
for the benefit of all Namibians including those living in rural communities and who were
previously disadvantaged. In particular, CBNRM offers the potential of extending biodiversity
conservation and management beyond Namibia's protected areas network while providing at the
same time for corridors through which wildlife can also safely move from one PA to another. In
many instances, biodiversity hotspots are being or potentially considered to be incorporated into
emerging conservancies, while conservancies established adjacent to existing parks and/or
protected areas (e.g. Etosha National Park) greatly expands quality habitats and seasonal
movement patterns for fauna. These corridors for gene flow make provision for the maintenance
of viable biodiversity rich populations not only within Namibia, but also across international
boundaries between South Africa, Angola, Botswana, Zambia and Zimbabwe. Furthermore, the
national CBNRM Program, has gained credibility within Namibia and is widely recognized and
supported in its National Development Plan (NDP) II principles (2001).

Under MET's leadership, the national CBNRM Program responds to national development and
(global) environmental priorities by:
    (i) supporting sustainable use and conservation of Namibia's unique ecosystems and related
         biodiversity
    (ii) promoting appropriate land management schemes in an environment where availability of
         water and suitable rangeland as well as land degradation are the key limiting factors to
         sustainable management of scarce resources
    (iii)providing diversified livelihood strategies through responsibility over local resources,
         thereby addressing the root causes of threats to unsustainable resource and ecosystem
         management, and
    (iv)promoting participatory, accountable and democratic systems of local and regional
    governance.

Capacity for scaling-up CBNRM
The institutional structures at national, regional and local level responsible for natural resource
management show insufficient capacity to cope with the needs of the expanding conservancy
network and to develop a short and medium-term strategy for ensuring long-term sustainability,
strengthening and scaling-up successful CBNRM models. The dynamic expansion of the
conservancy network together with the need to establish linkages of the CBNRM Program to the
on-going decentralization process at regional level has become a critical political issue which
requires a strategic adaptation and significant investments. Government and CBNRM support
organizations will need an increasingly different set of tools, staff qualifications, organizational
functions, monitoring systems, business opportunities and funding mechanisms to deliver
results-oriented and cost-efficient services to conservancies. These issues, if not addressed
quickly, might jeopardize the sustainability of the CBNRM approach marked by significant early
well recognized success.

                                                   4
                                                                                                 PID


Government strategy:
The Ministry of Environment and Tourism's approach to address the growing needs of the
increasing and more diversified CBNRM Program is based on several elements (i) streamlining
and harmonizing policies and strategies and legal framework to CBNRM; (ii) delegation and
outsourcing of non-core MET functions to Non-Governmental Organizations and other
institutions; (iii) moving to more result- rather than process-oriented services; (iv) targeted
training and capacity building of MET central and decentralized staff related to specific planning,
management and monitoring tools; (v) developing a comprehensive and integrated CBNRM
monitoring and evaluation program with linkages to public education, awareness and
participation; and (v) establishing a sustainable long-term funding mechanism.
With regard to the latter, the Ministry of Environment and Tourism (MET) and its partner
organizations recognized that the government's budgetary resources are limited and are being
sought after by a large and varied constituency. These agencies concluded that the financing of
environment and natural resources (ENR) activities cannot be met solely from the public coffers.
The NDP1 identified the need for new and innovative financing outside of government control
and specifically made provisions for the establishment of an Environmental Investment Fund to
secure long-term financial support for the activities and programs designed to protect Namibia's
fragile environment while contributing to its economic development. It aims to support the
conservation and protection of environment and natural resource (ENR), preserve the national
biological diversity and provide economic support to the poorest sectors of society. The EIF is
expected to provide support only to projects and activities that actively demonstrate and support
this concept. The EIF is expected to raise local revenues via the introduction of statutory fees as
determined by the Act of the Parliament of Namibia. It is a statutory and independent entity
outside the public service and has clear and separate roles and function from any GRN body or
entity.

Livelihood options fur rural communities
Half of the population is considered to be living below the poverty line, and the top seven percent
of the population account for 48% of national consumption. Income distribution is one of the
most unequal in the world, with a Gini-coefficient of 0.7. The unemployment rate is between
35% and 40%. Malnutrition rates in many rural areas are among the highest in southern Africa.
The national illiteracy rate in Namibia is officially 17%, but in some of the more remote areas
targeted by this project it is estimated to be as high as 40%. Gender inequality manifests itself in
different forms, including differential access to resources, inheritance structures favoring men,
women's exclusion from decision-making processes affecting their lives, etc. Poverty and
inequality are serious threats to sustainable development in Namibia. About 85 % of Namibia's
poor households are in the rural and communal areas mainly in the northern regions. Rural
communities depend for the most part on subsistence agriculture: limited dryland cropping and/or
livestock framing to a certain extent extraction of forests and other plant materials. In addition to
the natural unpredictable environment, distant markets limits the development of farming in
communal areas and agricultural incomes are low and variable. Rural-urban migration is a
frequent pattern as livelihood alternatives appear to be very limited. Livestock is the main
agricultural activity but constraints to sustainable management of rangelands is due to a lack of
secure and exclusive group land tenure, and most importantly to scarce surface water. Subsidies
to communal and freehold livestock keepers (e.g. free water and fodder provision, drought
subsidies, rent-free land, veterinary services, price support etc.) have put further pressure on

                                                  5
                                                                                                  PID


communal pasture resources and encouraged over-stocking in the communal areas as well as
increase in bush encroachment. These factors led to an increasing diversification into wildlife
management and small-scale tourism activities which intends to improve the livelihoods of rural
communities and to create a valuable buffer against drought and unsustainable management of the
limited resource base.

Government strategy:
The Government provides direct services to communities on communal land such as education,
health, water, energy, housing and agricultural extension or transfer payments such as pensions as
well as indirect services such as pricing of services, investment promotion, taxes and subsidies,
and other macroeconomoic incentives. In reality, these services are currently insufficient to cover
the main needs of disadvantaged people on communal land. Rural poor communities need a
greater access to education and participation in local development planning as well as share in the
benefits from natural resource management (including wildlife management, tourism, forestry,
fishery, and agriculture). NDP II restates that policies of decentralization and devolution of
authority over natural resource management should be pursued from a point of view of poverty
reduction because they tend to strengthen local-institutional capacity, increase participation of the
poor, and stimulate local-level retention of benefits and cash incomes. Other means of poverty
alleviation include promoting entrepreneurial drive and small-scale enterprise development;
deregulating business environment to unleash absorptive potential of informal sector; and
improving flexibility of the formal labor market to increase employment options and opportunities.
The benefits of the CBNRM Program to the communal conservancies include an increase of
income-generating benefits from rebounding wildlife, community-based tourism and other spin-off
enterprises and newly established local democratic governance mechanisms and empowerment.
However, the challenge for the Ministry of Environment and Tourism and other stakeholders
remains the implementation of the NDP II targets including the development of a reliable impact
monitoring over medium to long-term. In its CBNRM policy letter, MET outlines the key
overlaps and synergies between other sector ministries. Furthermore,          MET has developed
strategic elements to focus more on the issue of sustainable use of natural resources in its
CBNRM Program. It aims to improve the framework for investment incentives and partnerships
with the private sector especially at the medium end of the community-based tourism market,
which is expected to generate more local employment and income. Another challenge in Namibia
remains implementation of land reform processes that aim to improve land tenure security in an
equitable fashion. One aspect of that process involves the recently gazetted Communal Lands
Reform Act, which in principle supports decentralized decision-making around land allocation and
management. While it complements similar decentralization principles inherent in the CBNRM
policy, the implementation of the Communal Land Reform Act may still be a lengthy process to
ensure adequate engagement of communal land boards, traditional authorities, and other
stakeholders.

2. Objectives

The project development objective is to promote community-based integrated ecosystem
management that accrues socio-economic benefits, and prospect for benefits, to conservancies.

The project global objective is to restore, secure and enhance key ecosystem processes in

                                                 6
                                                                                             PID


conservancies that increase the prospects to improve significantly the conservation of globally
important biodiversity and to reduce land degradation in the country as a whole.

Background to the project
The project's on-the-ground activities will be targeted to communally managed lands represented
through Namibia's "communal conservancy network". Therefore, the project also provides direct
institutional support to the Ministry of Environment and Tourism (MET), which is the country's
lead governmental agency responsible for guiding and overseeing the communal conservancy
network under its "National Community-Based Natural Resource Management (CBNRM)
Program" (see annex 2 for more details on CBNRM Program and communal conservancies). The
CBNRM Program in Namibia is based on an initial policy and legal framework which grants
rights over wildlife and tourism management and uses to communities on their lands once they are
organized as "conservancies". Conservancies are multiple-use zones with legal status, registered
with the authorities (Ministry of Environment and Tourism), where residents currently continue
farming but collectively manage wildlife in order to benefit both from better natural resource
management practice, and from capturing tourism revenues. A communal conservancy consists in
setting aside part or all of the land of a given community with the intention to conserve and
valorise wildlife through its sustainable consumptive and non-consumptive uses within
ecosystem-related activities. The committees that run conservancies aim to be multifunctional,
serving as management structures for natural resources utilization and benefit distribution. The
establishment of communal conservancies is seen as a fundamental step in improving local
management capacity and linking it to benefits for communities in communal areas, promoting
sustainable environmental management and rural development. The changes associated with the
National CBNRM Program are expected to impact differently on rural households depending on
individual and communal factors like income levels, livestock wealth, tourism income, wild
resource income, cash income, conservancy involvement, degree of common property
management, employment and education as well as resource based factors.
The project targets registered as well as emerging communal conservancies (see criteria for
project intervention sites and conservancy profiles in annex 17).

                                                 7
                                                                                                PID


3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement

Over the past years, the Bank's continuous dialogue with Namibia focused on macro-economic
policies, human resource management, natural resource management, HIV/Aids and strategic
partnerships. A proposed Comprehensive Development Framework for Namibia was discussed in
2000. Efforts since then have built on this dialogue and provided the Bank with a sound
knowledge of Namibian institutions, donor approaches and policy and regulatory framework.
Supporting technical assistance provided by the Bank on water sector reform, capacity building,
decentralization, education and sources of growth complement the project efforts and ensure
consistency at macro-level.

Moreover, the Bank/GEF is playing a catalytic role to cover a wide range of issues relating to
biological diversity and integrated ecosystem management at the communities level and to support
cooperative partnerships between various stakeholders at governmental, non-governmental,
community and donor levels. It aims to leverage additional resources throughout the first and
potentially second phase of the project which will be of great importance to support the larger
CBNRM framework and its implementation. The ICEMA Project builds on the principles and the
objectives laid by the National CBNRM vision process, which was discussed with a broad range
of CBNRM stakeholders including the MET in 2000 and takes a long-term holistic approach
while targeting specific incremental activities within this larger framework. Assistance from
WB/GEF will help to consolidate progress made thus far in CBNRM in Namibia, and bring
longer-term stability in the program by enhancing MET's abilities in the fields identified. The
GEF, associated to the French GEF support fills a serious gap in the current funding framework
for CBNRM by providing the requested support to MET that no other donor is currently
providing. So far, there exists a range of donor funded initiatives in conservancy development,
community based tourism development and related fields, either directly through MET or NGOs.
The principal support has thus far come through the USAID LIFE project and the EU-funded
tourism development program. Further, the Bank's has increasing experience in, and ability to
facilitate long-term, programmatic approaches to biodiversity and integrated ecosystem
management, poverty alleviation and sustainable resource use. The Bank can build on its recent
portfolio of programmatic community-driven development (CDD) projects in Africa which
provides insight into adequate design and implementation of conservation and ecosystem
management      objectives,  jointly  with   development    efforts based    on  a   participatory
community-based approach.


4. Description
1.      Project components: (see Annex 1)
WB/GEF provides incremental financing for the project's 4 inter-related components that together
serve to consolidate, add value to and build on the previous achievements of the National
CBNRM Program. It will foster the shift from traditional natural resource management (mainly
wildlife) to an integrated ecosystem management approach in targeted conservancies thereby
enhancing globally significant biodiversity conservation and reducing land degradation while at the
same time providing increased income-generating activities. ICEMA will support targeted
conservancies on communal lands complying with ICEMA's defined strategic criteria. The project
also provides institutional support to the Ministry of Environment and Tourism (MET), which is
the governmental lead agency responsible for implementing the National Community-Based

                                                  8
                                                                                                  PID


Natural Resource Management (CBNRM) Program.

Project components 1 "Ecosystem-based Income-Generating Activities" and 2 "Sustainable
Ecosystem Management" support site-specific on-the-ground activities. Project component 3
"Targeted Institutional Support" focus on priority issues of the institutional, policy and financial
CBNRM framework. All three components are expected to provide replicable lessons for the
remaining conservancy network. Project component 4 "Project Management Support" aims to
strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Environment and Tourism to manage and supervise the
project activities.

Component 1: Ecosystem-based Income-Generating Activities
This component is concerned with the sustainable use of natural resources and ecosystem services
through provision of funds to communities for barrier removal to ecosystem-based
income-generating activities that generate provide benefits to conservancies members.              It
specifically aims to:
(i) provide resources for direct financing of demand-driven ecosystem-based income-generating
activities,
(ii) increase the viability of activities through tailored business planning, feasibility support,
training and mentoring;
(iii) promote mechanisms for equitable sharing of costs and benefits;
(iv) develop and disseminate best practices for replication and up-scaling through monitoring and
evaluation processes; and
(v) contribute to improved participation in development planning processes at local and regional
level.

The two closely inter-related sub-components are the :
a) Community-Funding Facility (CFF):
The sub-component focuses on the delivery of sub-projects (micro-projects) to eligible (see
selection criteria in annex 20) registered conservancies. CFF funded activities will target a
diversity of aspects related to wildlife, tourism, forestry, and multi-sector (e.g. non-timber forest
products (NTFP) with emphasis on community ownership.

b) Capacity- Building and Technical Assistance:
This sub-component focuses on supporting the CFF through the following three activities:
(i) disseminating information to eligible communities, with a view to informing them of the CFF
and providing guidance on accessing the CFF.
(ii) technical support at the conservancy level for strategic business planning as part of the
conservancy ecosystem management planning process, including a mechanisam for benefit sharing
at the conservancy level.
(iii) facilitation support for sub-project development which will include:
     o technical support for subproject development. Feasibility studies will identify and assess
     costs and benefits for new income-generating opportunities as well as to provide guidance
     based on marketing and management study results.
     o implementation support for subprojects consist of subproject in-built technical assistance
     (TA) for training and mentoring to further strengthen capacity of local stakeholders, and to

                                                   9
                                                                                                PID


     ensure desired quality and standards of subprojects;
     o follow-up support for subproject management including management support and advice,
     knowledge management, and replication activities at local and national level.

Component 2: Sustainable Ecosystem Management
This component is concerned with restoring, securing and enhancing the biodiversity and
ecosystem processes that support sustainable benefits to local communities on communal lands.
The component will adapt its support according to national conservation priorities and the needs
and current status of targeted conservancies. Some conservancies will only require basic support
for the community based integrated ecosystem management planning and prioritization of
activities, for developing methodological approaches for pilot activities, for designing an
appropriate knowledge management plan. Whereas other conservancies, where there is a need
and which have more capacity to plan and implement their plan, will benefit from an enhanced and
more detailed approach.
The component provides funds and technical support to:
(i) establish approaches for CBIEM planning including inventory and baseline assessment as
needed in targeted sites;
(ii) restore, maintain and enhance ecosystem services as part of the implementation of the
management plans as needed in targeted sites;
(iii) develop capacity for local monitoring and evaluation functions related to ecosystem
management (including replication) as needed in targeted sites.

The three inter-related sub-components are the :
(a) CBIEM Planning:
The sub-component will support the development of 15 integrated conservancy management
plans in targeted registered and emerging conservancies that will guide resource based
management activities.
(b) CBIEM Implementation:
This sub-component focus on the implementation of site-specific key prioritized activities for
ecosystem restoration, wildlife translocation and other ecosystem management activities as
outlined in the CBIEM plan.
(c) CBIEM Monitoring and Evaluation:
This sub-component focus on
(a) designing an adaptive and comprehensive CBIEM m&e methodology (socio-economic and
environmental) for local level users and uses;
(b) implementing m&e through support for data collection (tracker; aerial surveys, GIS) at local
and central level;
(c) providing training for local and central level stakeholders on m&e development and use.

Component 3: Targeted Institutional Support
The component aims to improve the MET's strategic planning, implementation, monitoring and
replication capacity to promote, develop and implement the National CBNRM Program and
policies in Namibia over the longer term. It will also provide institutional and operational support
to selected conservancies.
The component is focusing on

                                                   10
                                                                                                  PID


(i) strengthening MET's organizational framework for CBNRM;
(ii) providing targeted training for MET's staff to support its leading role related to National
CBNRM Program in place;
(iii) reinforcing the MET to engage other sectoral ministries in the active support for CBNRM
policies and the CBNRM Program implementation;
(iv) facilitating the establishment of a sustainable financing framework for CBNRM;
(v) providing direct institutional and operational support to targeted conservancies; and,
(vi) developing and implementing a CBNRM knowledge management and communication
strategy and action plan.

The three sub-components are:
(a) Policy and Organizational Review and Development:
This sub-component includes the following closely interlinked issues:
(i) CBNRM policy dialogue (reviewing and enabling the priority legal framework; workshop
support for improved inter-sectoral CBNRM policy coordination with other ministries);
(ii) CBNRM policy research ( identifying and funding of targeted CBNRM research issues to be
undertaken or guided by a technical and scientific roster of experts);
(iii) CBNRM organizational review (assisting MET to review its current National CBNRM
strategy and institutional set-up with the aim to identify and implement a targeted training plan for
MET's centralized and decentralized staff; further providing support to MET to formalize a
CBNRM consultative forum to discuss policies issues, progress within the National CBNRM
Program and associated activities and to share experiences);
(iv) CBNRM financial sustainability (supporting the development of a sustainable financial
framework including options to integrate the protocols used under the CFF under the
Environment Investment Fund (EIF), assessments of the further use of the Game Product Trust
Fund (GPTF),        mainstreaming further funding for CBNRM into Government's budget, and
development of a CBNRM cost-reduction strategy).

(b) Direct conservancy operational support (providing financial support for equipment and
running costs as well as limited training and workshop budget for conservancy management
needs).

(c) Knowledge Management:
The sub-component provides institutional support for
(i) Training and technical assistance to MET staff to improve CBNRM scientific monitoring and
evaluation activities and to further develop and adapt its central m&e system to the expanding
needs of the CBNRM Program.
(ii) Designing and implementing of a CBNRM knowledge management program (including a
multi-media communication strategy and action plan outlining the communication tools, recipients
and timeframe of actions; a CBNRM replication plan) for conservancies, central government and
other stakeholders based on all National CBNRM Program and ICEMA project activities and
achievements and lessons learned. A full economic study of the CBNRM Prigran will also be
conducted.

Component 4: Project Management Support

                                                  11
                                                                                                  PID


The component aims to provide MET with the additional increased operational ability to manage
and supervise ICEMA activities. French ICEMA co-funding to this component will strengthen the
Project Office located in MET (attached to the PS office, see annex 13 for more details) expertise,
implementation and delivery capacity by adding 4 technical experts with expertise (two national
and two international) to the PO staff.

The two sub-components are:
(i) Project Office and Management: The sub-component provides the necessary infrastructure and
training for the Project Office staff.
(ii) Review and Reporting. The sub-component enables the timely delivery of project reports
according to the project implementation plan.

5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER/RECIPIENT ($6.11)
US: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (USAID) ($10.29)
LOCAL COMMUNITIES ($0.18)
EC: EUROPEAN COMMISSION ($3.00)
FINLAND: MINISTRY FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS ($1.00)
FRANCE: FRENCH AGENCY FOR DEVELOPMENT ($1.75)
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY ($7.10)
GERMANY: KREDITANSTALT FUR WIEDERAUFBAU (KFW) ($3.00)
Total Project Cost: $32.43

6. Implementation
Project management: The Project Office (PO)
A Project Office will act as the project implementation support team. It will be attached the office
of the Permanent Secretary MET. The Project Office's composition consists of 4 full-time and 1
part-time staff : (i) a Project Office Coordinator, responsible for overall coordination and
implementation; (ii) a Procurement Officer; (iii) a Project Accountant, (iv) a Project
Administrative Assistant; and (v) a part-time Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist.
Its main functions and tasks are related to :
o       Fiduciary obligations (including elaborating annual work plans and ensure their execution
once approved;management of results-based disbursement from the Special Account; and
ensuring compliance with agreed norms and procedures specified in grant agreement);
o       Day to day program coordination, communication and liaison with stakeholder groups and
processing (including interaction with World Bank regarding project management and supervision
missions);
o       Mobilization of backstopping;
o       Secretariat of the ICEMA Steering Committee;
o       Aggregate project monitoring, auditing and reporting (including contracting external
auditors); and
o       Finalizing and proposing modifications to project manuals and guidelines, as needed.

Project Steering Committee:
The ICEMA's Steering Committee's purpose is to ensure compliance with proposed project
objectives. To that end, the committee will review action strategies, procedures and guidelines;

                                                 12
                                                                                                 PID


analyze the project's annual work plan and analyze and issue opinions on technical and financial
reports. The Committee will be comprised of MET's 6 Directors.

Project technical backstopping and information sharing : The Technical and Scientific
Advisory Roster (TSAR) and the CBNRM Consultative Forum (CCF).
MET's implementing directorates in consultation with other CBNRM stakeholders will develop a
technical and scientifc advisory roster (TSAR) for CBNRM related issues and themes. National
(and international) experts on this roster will be used upon specific requests to guide project
implementation and development of annual work programs from a technical and scientific
perspective. The roster will also include a social scientist to assist with compliance of the IPDP
action plan.

A CBNRM consultative forum, consisting of representatives from conservancies, NGOs, other
GRN ministries, other donors and representative of related programs and projects will be
established and chaired by the MET. This CBNRM consultative forum aims to provide for
synergies, exchange of experiences and use lessons learned for policy and operational
decision-making processes. Its recommendations will be disseminated through a CBNRM
communication strategy, supported by the project. While at the project launch, the CBNRM
consultative group might not be formalized, MET will ensure that an informal consultative
process including all major CBNRM stakeholders will be in place. The CBNRM consultative
forum is expected to be fully functional by mid-term. Its advice will be used to (i) inform a broad
range of governmental, non-governmental, research, sub-regional and donor stakeholders, (ii)
improve planned decisions at national and local level, (iii) assess experiences and lessons of the
National CBNRM Program, (iv) indicate urgent strategic issues and (v) improve coordination and
collaboration.

Project implementation and execution: MET, NGOs, Conservancies and private sector
A range of stakeholders will be involved in project implementation and execution. Whereas MET
is responsible for the overall project implementation, it will outsource execution of activities for
areas outside its core expertise and function or/and to increase its absorptive capacity.

MET: MET's current activities related to the National CBNRM Program include guidance and/or
implementation support related to: resource inventories; natural resource utilization and
management options; resource and land use mapping; resource management planning and
monitoring, data analysis, reporting; research, economic analysis, case studies; establishment,
training and capacity building of CBNRM institutions; community by-laws related to NRM;
translocation of wildlife species; afforestation/reforestation; problem animal management; fire
management; establishment of NR based income-generating projects (e.g. wildlife, tourism,
woodlots, nurseries, forest products, bee-keeping, wood carving). The administrative
responsibility for CBNRM's technical implementation is currently with MET's Department of
Natural Resources Management (DRM). DRM includes the Directorate of Parks and Wildlife
Management (DPWM) under which a CBNRM Sub-Division (CSD) is placed, Directorate of
Forestry (DoF) and the Directorate of Scientific Services (DSS). In addition, the Directorate of
Tourism (DoT) is involved in community-based tourism.

                                                  13
                                                                                                  PID


NGOs: NGOs support the development and implementation of conservancies as well as increase
quality and cost-effectiveness of services provided by CBNRM support organizations. They
further advocate for policy and legislative change, and monitors the effectiveness and impacts of
conservancy development .

Conservancies: Conservancies have started discussions with MET to establish a forum where
representatives of all registered conservancies can communicate and negotiate directly with MET.
At its last meeting in October 2003, most conservancies agreed to formalize this arrangement and
to form an association (the Namibian Association of Conservancies "NACA"). The constitution
for such an association is currently under development. This evolution will greatly facilitate direct
consultation concerning the national CBNRM programme and various initiatives and projects
under it. It further demonstrates strong political will to continuously support and empower
conservancies and promote full participation of all stakeholders in the strategic orientations and
implementation of the CBNRM.

Private sector: The private sector plays several roles in the CBNRM Programme, the most
relevant are: (i) service providers for execution of specific activities under component 1 and 2; (ii)
conservation partners to offer training and information events for communal conservancies and to
support joint efforts to solve conservation issues such as problem animals and participate in game
translocation schemes; as well as (iii) partners and co-investors in community-based tourism
schemes.

Project Monitoring and Evaluation :
Monitoring, as a process of systematic collection, analysis and use of data to improve project
performance and project outputs will serve as an important management tool to guide ICEMA
management and implementation at central and local level. Through the Project Office, ICEMA
will establish and maintain a Project Management Information System (MIS). This will allow to
assess and report on the quality and quantity of work at each level. In addition, monitoring will be
characterized by a rapid feedback from the project management to operational levels to address
issues arising from the analysis of monitoring information. The project's monitoring system will be
made accessible to all implementation stakeholders (MET, conservancies, private sector, NGOs
and World Bank) and ultimately put on MET's CBNRM webpage.

The primary purpose of process, performance and impact monitoring of ICEMA implementation
is:

(i) To monitor progress towards attainment of targets and to adapt targets to realities; (ii) To
provide an improved foundation for planning; (iii) To make sure resources are used effectively
and to identify unacceptably high cost interventions and operations; (iv) To identify problems and
find solutions at an early stage; (v) To provide record of events; (vi) To look at `process' of
development such as staffing, capacity building and collaboration; (vi) To provide an information
base for future evaluations; (vii) To maintain high standards; and (viii) To help staff feel their
work has a definite purpose.

The project's performance M&E system will include monitoring of root causes at conservancy
level and enabling communities to provide locally gathered and locally demand-driven data and
information to input into sustainable local, regional and national planning and decision-making

                                                   14
                                                                                                     PID


processes. The M&E system will provide the project stakeholders, mainly the Ministry of
Environment and Tourism, the World Bank and the GEF through inputs in the PSR and PIR, and
external partners with data and information to measure progress and performance, and to
determine whether expected impacts have been achieved, and to provide timely feedback to
ensure that critical issues are identified in the earliest stage and that appropriate actions are taken.


Furthermore, the project puts a strong emphasis on supporting MET with the development and
implementation of a sustainable CBNRM M&E system at national and local level with information
flow and feed-back loops between these levels. During project preparation, initial assessments of
the current practices for National CBNRM Program have shown that there is need to improve
existing information systems and          that capacity-building among MET's Directorates and
conservancies as regards planning and monitoring and evaluation is strongly needed.


Financial Management
A Project Coordinator will head the PO, which will also have senior officers in charge of Finance
and of Procurement respectively. The project's finance person will be responsible for all
accounting record keeping, disbursements, reporting, and general financial management. Project
financial management will be completely outside of the government accounting system. This
means that there will basically be less bureaucratic processes but greater focus on a narrower
range of expenditures. For accounting and reporting purposes, a computer based financial
management system will be established, and staff trained in its proper use.In addition, the
production of an Financial and Administrative Manual acceptable to the Bank will be a condition
for effectiveness, meaning that processes and controls will be adequately described for users.
Project Accounting Staff will be recruited in accordance with Terms of Reference (TOR)
acceptable to the Bank.

7. Sustainability
The project supports a holistic approach to establish and sustainably ground community-based
integrated ecosystem management in the conservancy network and National CBNRM Program of
Namibia. Intensive consultation with all CBNRM stakeholders throughout the entire project
preparation process (about 2 years) provided for a detailed assessment of the baseline situation
leading to a carefully designed and realistic project with the overall goal to ensure longer term
ecological, social, institutional and economic sustainability. In addition, the lessons learned from
the past years of the CBNRM Program have shown the need to promote CBIEM under an
adaptive management approach, strong on learning and feedback loops. ICEMA's design has
incorporated these elements and promotes a phased approach under each of its components
(piloting and testing, monitoring and evaluating before developing models and mechanism to be
rolled out) which is expected to contribute to social, economic, financial, ecological and
institutional sustainability of the CBNRM Program as a whole and individual conservancies.

These sustainability aspects will be achieved through multiple linked efforts described below.

(i) Economic and social sustainability: ICEMA will pilot and expand on capacity-building
activities for business planning, management and monitoring at conservancy as well as at
sub-project level under its component 1 "Ecosystem-Based Income-Generating Activities" and the
Community-Funding Facility. The proposed CDD approach to provide direct resources to

                                                 15
                                                                                                  PID


targeted conservancies for their identified sub-projects is expected to significantly empower local
communities and to provide an adequate basis for future economic and social sustainability of
conservancies as institutions and as a group of poor rural households. Sub-project screening
criteria (see annex 20) include social development criteria such as gender sensitivity, equitable
access to resources and the use of culturally appropriate economic development. Successful
approaches (in terms of economic and social performance and acceptance as well as in terms of
meeting ecological targets) will be rolled out during the project's lifetime. More importantly, the
project will support the development of applicable and manageable benefit-distribution guidelines
and models which has been one of the short-falls of the previous years.

(ii) Financial sustainability: Most conservancies depend currently on external support to cover
their operationg costs. However, a few conservancies have managed to become financially viable.
Although some of the factors for these champions are known informally (e.g. environmental,
social and financial assets, conservancy priorities and level of support received), no official study
or report provides a detailed assessment. Therefore, ICEMA will undertake also a
cost-effectiveness analysis of conservancies under its component 3 " Targeted Institutional
Support" to provide a sound financial and non-financial insight in external and internal costs and
benefits related to conservancy plannning, management and monitoring. These results are
expected to better guide overall communal conservancy development trends and to adapt strategic
and operational CBNRM supportive decisions.

In summary, the project's sustainable financing strategy is based on a mix of several elements
targeting the local as well the national level: (i) cost reduction at local level through improved
planning and increasing capacity building and learning curve, simplified procedures for business
plans and benefit distribution, and pooling of resources between neighboring conservancies (under
ICEMA's component 1 and 2); (ii) increasing ecosystem-based income generation activities (as
promoted under ICEMA's component 1) and (iii) long term funding through the development of a
sustainable financing plan for the National CBNRM Program, designed by mid-term (under
ICEMA's component 3 "Targeted Institutional Support")

(iii) Ecological sustainability: The project will contribute to ecological sustainability through
enhanced local and national ecosystem planning, management and monitoring and evaluation
systems under its component 2 "Sustainable Ecosystem Management". Linkages between
communal conservancies, freehold conservancies, national parks and other community-managed
areas will substantially increase conservation zones that are providing habitats and important
biological corridors for wildlife movement (e.g. one main area of the project's intervention zone is
in the North West in between 2 National Parks, Ethosha and the Skeleton Coast). At MET's level,
the Directorate of Scientific Services and the Directorate of Parks and Wildlife Management are
closely working together to ensure that communal and freehold conservancies and national parks
support the broader national and sub-regional ecosystem and corridor approach (using detailed
aerial surveys and remote sensing results). The development and implementation of the
tailor-made local level integrated management plans for registered conservancies will address
cross-cutting sustainability issues (social, ecological, economic/financial), based on a detailed
baseline assessment of the resource base, communities and their livelihoods and identify suitable
sustainable land and resource use options. Specific interventions for ecosystem restoration and
rehabilitation will be tested and rolled out if successfully. This implies that each activity will be
embedded in a framework of feasibility studies, piloting of investments and local and national level

                                                  16
                                                                                               PID


monitoring and evaluation.

However, ecological sustainability differs from social, economic, financial and insitutional
sustainability as it needs a much larger time frame for impact assessment and sustainability
purposes. The limited time frame of most projectes, in the case of ICEMA 5 years, does make it
difficult to predict longer term ecological sustainability.

(iv) Institutional sustainability: The project supports through its component 3 "Targeted
Institutional Support" capacity building measures mainly within the Ministry of Environment and
Tourism. It aims to strengthen CBNRM coordination among various MET directorates and to
improve their capacity by       (i) providing a basis for streamlining MET's CBNRM delivery
mechanisms; (ii) providing a basis for staff training on CBNRM issues; (iii) providing
implementation support for new government regulations and policies relating to CBNRM.

In addition, the project implementation structure includes a CBNRM Consultative Forum that will
be spear-headed by MET and that will involve all national stakeholders (related line ministries,
local conservancies, NGOs, donors) in an effort to promote the principles of CBIEM and to
coordinate nation-wide efforts in that regard.

At local level, the project does reinforce existing local governing structures (mainly conservancy
committees) through the delivery of locally needed technical and financial services related to
inter-conservancy exchanges and learning events supporting the creation of regional conservancy
associations and the national conservancy association.


8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The project design builds on Namibia's experiences and lessons with the development and
evolution of the first years of CBNRM in conservancies on communal lands. A broad-based
national CBNRM vision process in 2001 with participating governmental and non-governmental
organizations as well as international partners engaged in NRM and rural development further
strengthened ICEMA's project design across its four components.

In addition, CBNRM lessons learned based on analyses of lessons from the following sub-regional
evaluations: (i) USAID's Regional Center for Southern Africa (RCSA) based in Botswana, which
has provided support for the implementation of CBNRM programmes in four southern African
countries since 1989 under the "Regional Natural Resource Management Project (RNRMP), (ii)
evaluation of 4 phases of the Zambian CBNRM Program (LIRDP) and (iii) DFID's Wildlife and
Poverty Study, December 2002 were reviewed and adapted to the Namibian project context.

The key lessons and strategic recommendations to enable the national CNBRM programme to
move to the next level in terms of consolidating programme leadership and ownership,
institutionalization of cost-effective and efficient CBNRM support services, strengthened
partnerships, and increased programme and conservancy sustainability are (USAID LIFE
mid-term review):

ICEMA's component 1 Benefit Enhancement:
1.      Participatory Democracy - Develop a programme-wide emphasis on strengthening
conservancies as participatory democracies based on control          by the constituency acting
through sound, constituted, accountable, transparent, democratic and equitable village-level

                                                 17
                                                                                                 PID


institutions.
2.       Financial Sustainability - Set in place plans for each conservancy to achieve financial
sustainability as soon as possible.
3.       Economical Sustainability - Get economic benefits flowing to conservancies.

ICEMA's component 2 Sustainable Ecosystem Management:
4.       Re-prioritisation of the planning process--Simplify the conservancy ecosystem planning
process, with an emphasis on improving livelihoods by achieving financial, institutional and
natural resource sustainability.

ICEMA's component 3 Targeted Institutional Support:
5.       Reorient and expand support for the national programme to address critical emerging
issues and to increase the programme's relevance to the government's sustainable development
priorities.
6.       More robust performance and compliance monitoring--Implement comprehensive, but
simple, performance and compliance monitoring and control systems and communication strategy
for programme achievements.
7.       Land tenure: Strengthen existing rights and secure additional rights for the conservancies.
8.       Long-term funding: Secure funding for the medium term and financial sustainability over
the longer term.

Finally, the USAID LIFE mid-term review in 2001 highlighted the need to improve and facilitate
the access and use of CBNRM related information at central and local level (including m&e
information) for all stakeholders involved. Therefore, the ICEMA project design has supported
the development of the basis for a communication strategy during preparation. The four project
components include various elements for its implementation (dissemination and knowledge
sharing) .

                                                  18
                                                                                                   PID


9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
      Issues   : A full environmental and social assessment (ESA) was undertaken by recruited
local and international consultants as part of the project preparation process. It has been carried
out in line with Namibia's National Environmental Assessment Policy, the emerging
Environmental Management Bill and the applicable World Bank safeguard policies (OP 4.01, OD
4.20, OD 4.30, OPN 11.03 and OP 4.04). The ESA provides an analysis of all biophysical and
social impacts associated with the implementation of the project and its activities. It includes 3
volumes: (i) Volume 1, the main ESA report; (ii) Volume 2, the Indigenous People Development
Plan (IPDP) and (iii) Volume 3, the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF). The main ESA report
contains an assessment of each component; the analysis of the project environmental and social
impacts; a mitigation plan with measures to limit these impacts and a separate environmental and
social management plan. The ESA methodology is based on documentation review, technical
analysis and a detailed consultative process including an audit of the National CBNRM Program
with all concerned stakeholders. As the overall project aims to promote integrated ecosystem
management and thereby restore, secure and enhance ecosystem processes, the ESA concluded
that the ICEMA project is likely to be very beneficial to CBNRM in Namibia whilst any potential
negative impacts are expected to be minimal and can be mitigated. The ESA analysis has
concluded that under this project no impacts related to displacement of population are foreseen.
For the specific case of project interventions in conservancies with San populations, an
Indigenous People Development Plan has been developed. The IPDP defines the project activities
and mitigation measures that San consider as profitable for them in terms of social, economic,
cultural and environmental development.

The revised and final ESA, the IPDP and the RPF have been officially reviewed and cleared by the
Directorate of Environmental Affairs, Ministry of Environment and Tourism before public
disclosure (January 26, 2004). The Project Office located in the MET PS Office will be
responsible for ensuring compliance with the Bank's as well as Namibian EA procedures. The
different Directorates under the MET will effectively manage implementation of safeguard
measures for those activities and sub-components where the respective Directorate is taking the
lead on overall implementation. The Namibian EIA processes are already being extensively
applied in-country and only modest need for training is expected. Still, capacity building at
national, regional and local (conservancy) level will be needed for Bank safeguard requirements
and procedures. Several workshops and training courses have been planned and budgeted for
under the ICEMA project. It is expected that only selected activities under Component 1
(Ecosystem-Based Income-Generating Activities) and 2 (Sustainable Ecosystem Management)
may possibly trigger formal EA processes, e.g. development of alternative income generating
possibilities through small-scale business including community-based tourism investments,
ecosystem restoration, rehabilitation measures including infrastructure and translocation of
economically important wildlife species.

10. List of factual technical documents:
Environmental and Social Assessment and Management Plan, Resettlement Policy Framework,
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan;

                                                  19
                                                                                                 PID


11. Contact Point:

     Task Manager
     Christophe Crepin
     The World Bank
     1818 H Street, NW
     Washington D.C. 20433
     Telephone: (202) 473-9727
      Fax: (202) 473-8185

12. For information on other project related documents contact:
         The InfoShop
         The World Bank
         1818 H Street, NW
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         Telephone: (202) 458-5454
         Fax:    (202) 522-1500
         Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop

Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included
in the final project.

