                                             Document of
                                         The World Bank




                                                                                 Report No: ICR2045



                    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                      (TF-53247)



                                                ON A

                                               GRANT

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 7.1 MILLION


                                               TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA

                                              FOR AN

          INTEGRATED COMMUNITY-BASED ECOSYSTEM MANAGEMENT PROJECT



                                         November 29, 2011




Environment and Natural Resources Management Unit - AFTEN
Sustainable Development Department
Southern Africa 1, Namibia, Botswana, Lesotho, South Africa, Swaziland – AFCS1
Africa Region
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective October 13, 2011)

                              Currency Unit = N$
                              N$ 1.00 = US$ 0.121
                              US$ 1.00 = 8.24 N$

                               FISCAL YEAR
                              April 1 – March 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CBD         Convention on Biological Diversity
CBIEM       Community-based Integrated Ecosystem Management
CBNRM       Community-based Natural Resource Management
CBO         Community-based Organization
CBS         Central Bureau of Statistics
CCF         CBNRM Consultative Forum
CFF         Community Funding Facility
CPP         Country Pilot Programme
CPS         CBNRM Policy Specialist
CSD         CBRNM Support Division
CSP         Contracted Service Provider
DEA         Directorate of Environmental Affairs
DoF         Directorate of Forestry
DPWM        Directorate of Parks and Wildlife Management
DSS         Directorate of Scientific Services
EIA         Environmental Impact Assessments
ESA         Environmental and Social Assessment
ESMF        Environmental and Social Management Framework
EWERAP      Enhancing Wildlife-based Economy in Rural Areas Project
FFEM        Fonds Français pour l'Environnement Mondial (French GEF)
GEF         Global Environment Facility
GEO         Global Environment Objective
GRN         Government of the Republic of Namibia
HVAS        High Value Animal Species
HVPS        High Value Plant Species
HWC         Human Wildlife Conflict
ICEMA       Integrated Community-Based Ecosystem Management Project
IEM         Integrated Ecosystem Management
IFFM        Integrated Forest and Fire Management
IOI         Intermediate Outcome Indicator
IP          Implementation Progress
IPDP        Indigenous Peoples’ Development Plan
IRDNC       Integrated Rural Development and Nature Conservation
KPI         Key Performance Indicator
LIFE Plus   Living In a Finite Environment
LLM         Local Level Monitoring
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MAWF        Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry
MCA       Millennium Challenge Account
MES       Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
MET       Ministry of Environment and Tourism
MLR       Ministry of Lands and Resettlement
MNC       Mudumu North Complex
MOF       Ministry of Finances
MOMS      Management Oriented Monitoring System
MRLGHRD   Ministry of Local Government, Housing and Rural Development
MTR       Mid-term Review
NASCO     National Association of Conservancy Support Organizations
NATH      Namibian Academy for Tourism and Hospitality
NBRI      Namibian Botanical Research Institute
NDP       National Development Plan
NDT       Namibia Development Trust
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
NIED      National Institute for Educational Development
NNDFN     Nyae Nyae Development Foundation of Namibia
NNF       Namibia Nature Foundation
NPCS      National Planning Commission Secretariat
NRM       Natural Resources Management
NRM-WG    Natural Resources Management Working Group
PA        Protected Area
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PDO       Project Development Objective
PIM       Project Implementation Manual
PIP       Project Implementation Plan
PO        Project Office
QEA       Quality at Entry Assessment
RPF       Resettlement Policy Framework
SC        Steering Committee
TA        Technical Assistance / Advisor
TTL       Task Team Leader
ToR       Terms of Reference
TSAR      Technical and Scientific Advisory Roster
UNAM      University of Namibia
WB        World Bank
WDT       Welwitchia Development Trust
WIMSA     Working Group of Indigenous Minorities in Southern Africa
WWF       World Wide Fund




                       Vice President:   Obiageli Ezekwesili
                     Country Director:   Ruth Kagia
                      Sector Manager:    Idah Pswarayi-Riddihough
                 Project Team Leader:    Claudia Sobrevila
                    ICR Team Leader      Claudia Sobrevila
                                  NAMIBIA
       Integrated Community-Based Ecosystem Management Project(ICEMA)



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design ................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 21
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 22
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 24
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 25
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 26
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 27
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 36
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 38
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 40
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 41
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 42
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 44
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 45
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Integrated Community-
Country:                Namibia                 Project Name:             Based Ecosystem
                                                                          Management Project
Project ID:             P073135                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-53247
ICR Date:               11/29/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          NAMIBIA
Original Total
                        USD 7.10M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 7.04M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 7.10M
Environmental Category: B                       Global Focal Area: M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Environment and Tourism (MET)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/17/2002     Effectiveness:             11/15/2004       11/15/2004
Appraisal:            02/11/2004     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/01/2004     Mid-term Review:                            11/19/2007
                                     Closing:                   01/31/2010       03/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome              Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                  Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:                    Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision:     Satisfactory                                       Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Moderately Satisfactory Overall Borrower
                                                                               Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               Moderately Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                          No                                                None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      45                  25
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                       35                  30
Other social services                                                  5                   25
Sub-national government administration                                 15                  20


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Biodiversity                                                           29                  30
Environmental policies and institutions                                29                  25
Land administration and management                                     14                  15
Participation and civic engagement                                     14                  15
Rural non-farm income generation                                       14                  15

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         Ruth Kagia                             Fayez S. Omar
Sector Manager:           Idah Z. Pswarayi-Riddihough            Richard G. Scobey
Project Team Leader:      Claudia Sobrevila                      Christophe Crepin
ICR Team Leader:          Claudia Sobrevila
ICR Primary Author:       Claudia Sobrevila




                                                   ii
F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
The project development objective (PDO) is to support community-based integrated ecosystem
management practices in targeted conservancies.

The global environmental objective (GEO) is to restore, secure and enhance key ecosystem
processes in targeted conservancies with biodiversity and land conservation and sustainable use
as a goal.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications

There were no revisions.

(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally       Actual Value
                                             Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                               approval          Target       Completion or
                                              documents)         Values        Target Years
                   Communal land under sustainable IEM as defined by the National Community-
Indicator 1 :
                   Based Natural Resource Management (CBNRM) (km2) (KPI)
Value
(quantitative or   2,500.00                   25,000.00 km2                        38,595.00 km2
qualitative)
Date achieved      06/01/2005                  07/05/2004                           03/30/2011
Comments           M&E work plan adjusted the initial indicator target surface area figure (25,000
(incl. %           km2) to 30,000 km2 to include all 16 of the target sites (initially 15 target sites).
achievement)       By completion, the target had been exceeded.
                   Conservancy committees effectively managing, deploying efficiently and
Indicator 2 :      sustainably their natural, human, financial and other resources according to their
                   conservancy plans (KPI)
Value
(quantitative or 0.00                     80.00                            100.00
qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2004                  07/05/2004                       03/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %         Target achieved
achievement)
                 Ministry of Environment and Tourism (MET) effectively established
Indicator 3 : partnerships with key stakeholder to enable achievement of Project objective
                 (criteria) (KPI)
Value
(quantitative or 0.00                     5.00                             5.00
qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2004                  07/05/2004                       03/30/2011
Comments
                 Target achieved
(incl. %


                                                    iii
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      Populations of key species remain at current levels and have increased (KPI)
Value
(quantitative or   0.00                      0.00                               0.00
qualitative)
Date achieved      06/30/2004                07/05/2004                         03/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %           This indicator is measured by selected species reported below.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :      Lechwe (Species of Antilope)
Value
(quantitative or   21.00                     121.00                             135.00
qualitative)
Date achieved      06/30/2004                07/05/2004                         03/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %           Target significantly exceeded
achievement)
Indicator 6 :      Black Face Impala
Value
(quantitative or   150.00                    190.00                             203.00
qualitative)
Date achieved      06/30/2004                07/05/2004                         03/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %           Target exceeded
achievement)
Indicator 7 :      Black Rhino
Value
(quantitative or   8.00                      14.00                              18.00
qualitative)
Date achieved      06/30/2004                07/05/2004                         03/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %           Target significantly exceeded
achievement)
Indicator 8 :      Elan
Value
(quantitative or   7.00                      275.00                             461.00
qualitative)
Date achieved      06/30/2004                07/05/2004                         03/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %           Target very significantly exceeded
achievement)
Indicator 9 :      Common Impala
Value
(quantitative or   0.00                      100.00                             266.00
qualitative)
Date achieved      06/30/2004                07/05/2004                         03/30/2011
Comments
                   Target significantly exceeded
(incl. %

                                                    iv
achievement)
Indicator 10 :     Desert Elephant
Value
(quantitative or   3.00                       3.00                                 5.00
qualitative)
Date achieved      06/30/2004                 07/05/2004                           03/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %           Target exceeded
achievement)
Indicator 11 :     Mountain Zebra
Value
(quantitative or   23.00                      30.00                                2.00
qualitative)
Date achieved      06/30/2004                 07/05/2004                           03/30/2011
Comments
                   This species is subject to rainfall patterns and the last monitoring could not find
(incl. %
                   many individuals.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                               Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                 approval                        Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                                documents)                        Target Years
                 MET's CBNRM M&E system is functional and links to other environmental
Indicator 1:
                 information systems
                                            MET's CBNRM
                 Rudimentary elements for M&E system is
Value            CBNRM M&E system in functional and                            CBNRM M&E
(quantitative or MET available and          links to other                     platform in place
qualitative)     development process        environmental                      and functioning
                 underway                   information
                                            systems
Date achieved 06/01/2004                    07/05/2004                         03/30/2011
                 Key elements for CBNRM M&E system were developed within MET and in
Comments
                 NACSO. The overall system is called CONFIFO and is the most current
(incl. %
                 knowledge management tool and interface available for monitoring
achievement)
                 conservancies. State of Conservancy reports have been published regularly.
Indicator 2:     Community Funding Facility resources used according CFF manual criteria
Value
(quantitative or 0.00                       90.00                              100.00
qualitative)
Date achieved 05/01/2004                    07/05/2004                         03/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %         Target achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 3:     Conservancies built sufficient capacity to plan, develop and implement

                                                     v
                   ecosystem based income generating activities with decreasing external support.
Value
(quantitative or   0.00                      12.00                             16.00
qualitative)
Date achieved      06/01/2004                07/05/2004                        03/30/2011
Comments
                   Target exceeded. Measurement against 10 criteria (NRM management,
(incl. %
                   Governance, and Financial sustainability, etc.)
achievement)
                   Conservancies implemented ecosystem management activities across thematic
Indicator 4:
                   areas
Value
(quantitative or 0.00                     90.00                              100.00
qualitative)
Date achieved 05/01/2004                  07/05/2004                         03/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %         Target exceeded.
achievement)
                 Conservancies developed skills to design, up-date and implement local level
Indicator 5:
                 monitoring and reporting
Value
(quantitative or 0.00                     80.00                              87.50
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2004                  07/05/2004                         03/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %         Target exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 6:     Conservancy committees strengthened
Value
(quantitative or 0.00                     12.00                              16.00
qualitative)
Date achieved 04/01/2006                  07/05/2004                         03/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %         Target exceeded
achievement)
Indicator 7:     Environment Management Act enacted
Value                                     Environmental
(quantitative or 0                        Management Act                     Enacted in 2007
qualitative)                              enacted
Date achieved 06/01/2004                  07/05/2004                         03/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %         Target achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 8 : Parks and Wildlife Management Bill enacted
                                                                             Bill drafted and
Value
                                          Enactment of the                   reviewed within
(quantitative or 0
                                          Bill                               MET. Awaiting
qualitative)
                                                                             Parliament approval
Date achieved 05/01/2004                  07/05/2004                         03/30/2011

                                                  vi
Comments       When the project was designed in 2004, promising an enacted Bill was highly
(incl. %       ambitious. Despite the ambitious target, MET informed the WB that the
achievement)   enactment is expected early in 2012.



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
        Date ISR
 No.                           GEO                         IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1    06/30/2004         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    11/30/2004         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  3    05/12/2005         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.50
  4    12/29/2005         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.65
  5    06/14/2006         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.94
  6    12/22/2006         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     1.31
  7    06/26/2007         Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory               1.63
  8    06/26/2007         Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory               1.63
  9    12/21/2007         Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory               2.24
 10    05/28/2008         Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory               2.52
 11    11/30/2008         Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory               3.11
 12    06/18/2009     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                3.37
 13    11/28/2009         Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory               4.42
 14    06/04/2010         Satisfactory        Moderately Unsatisfactory              5.13
 15    02/14/2011         Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory               6.66
 16    03/26/2011         Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory               6.92

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                            vii
I. Disbursement Profile
The image cannot be display ed. Your computer may not hav e enough memory to open the image, or the image may hav e been corrupted. Restart y our computer, and then open the file again. If the red x still appears, y ou may hav e to delete the image and then insert it again.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     viii
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.      Namibia became independent from South Africa in 1990. It borders on the Atlantic
Ocean to the west, Angola and the Democratic Republic of Congo to the north, Botswana to the
east and South Africa to the east and south. Namibia is a middle-income country whose
considerable successes rest on a strong multiparty parliamentary democracy that delivers sound
economic management, good governance, basic civic freedoms, and respect for human rights.
The greater part of Namibia consists of arid and semi-arid rangelands with little to no permanent
surface water. Namibia is divided into five geographical regions: a) the Central Plateau where the
majority of Namibia’s population and economic activity is; b) the Namib desert; c) the
Escarpment where vegetation ranges from dense woodlands to shrubby areas; d) the Bushveld
with flat and sandy soils covered with savannah vegetation; and e) the Kalahari desert which is
home to the Succulent Karoo, an area with high proportions of endemic species. These regions
support diverse megafauna such as rhino, elephant, wildebeest, buffalo, giraffe, zebra, oryx, kudu,
eland, hartebeest, springbock, etc. and their associated large predators, including lions, cheetahs
and hyenas.

2.       Before independence in 1990, wildlife populations in Namibia’s communal areas were
plummeting as a result of extensive poaching during prolonged military occupation. While 14
percent of Namibia has been set aside as state-controlled parks and reserves, the protected area
network is heavily skewed towards the Namib biome, leaving savannas, woodlands and Karoo
biome severely under-represented. Overexploitation of woodlands, shrublands and savannas and
uncontrolled cutting of trees for cattle farming and shifting cultivation have resulted in significant
land degradation that, if not stopped, could result in further desertification, economic loss and
escalating poverty.

3.      Since the early 1980’s the Government of the Republic of Namibia (GRN) initiated the
National Community-based Natural Resources Management (CBNRM) program, a joint venture
between the Government, non-governmental organizations, communities, community-based
organizations (CBOs) and donors. The CBNRM program aims to provide incentives to
communities to manage and use wildlife and other natural resources in sustainable and productive
ways to reduce deforestation, land degradation and biodiversity loss. The policy framework for
CBNRM grants rights over wildlife and natural resources use and tourism management to
communities on their lands once they are organized as “conservancies?. Conservancies are
multiple-zone areas with legal status, registered with the authorities (Ministry of Environment
and Tourism) where residents farm more sustainably and collectively manage wildlife and
tourism activities. USAID through the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) was a major co-financier
under the CBNRM program of activities through the Living in a Finite Environment (LIFE)
program which ended in 2008. The USAID/WWF funded LIFE program channelled its resources
mainly through the non-governmental CBNRM service providers and their network organization,
the National Association of Conservancy Support Organizations (NACSO).

4.      Lessons from the CBNRM program started to emerge. As the linkages and interactions
among natural systems as well as with people were often compromised within the CBNRM
program, the GRN and its partners decided that a new project should attempt to introduce an
integrated ecosystem management (IEM) concept to optimize the positive ecological, economic
and social benefits of activities aimed at maintaining or restoring ecosystem structure and




                                                  1
function not just biodiversity conservation. A broader range of investment activities were needed
to sustain the ecological and economic integrity of conservancies.

5.       In 2004, the GRN requested a US$ 7.1 million Global Environment Facility (GEF) grant
from the World Bank (WB) to initiate a new operation that incorporated the CBNRM lessons.
Within the overall CBNRM, the Integrated Community-Based Ecosystem Management project
(ICEMA) was to build on the achievements of the on-going LIFE program (LIFE plus). When
the interventions for ICEMA were designed, due cognizance was taken of a number of sector
issues that needed to be addressed: a) conservation and sustainable use of Namibia’s biodiversity
and natural resource base; b) support for the shift from a wildlife-focused to an integrated
ecosystem management (IEM) approach; c) strengthening of the Government’s policy and legal
framework to enable IEM in conservancies; d) reinforcement of capacity and institutional support
for CBNRM at the central and decentralized levels; and e) provisions for increased livelihood
options for rural communities.

6.       At the time of appraisal, the GRN and the WB agreed to adopt this new approach in 15
registered conservancies with significant biodiversity values (16 conservancies were eventually
supported). Specifically, the project was to foster the shift from traditional natural resource
management (mainly of wildlife) to an integrated ecosystem management approach in the
targeted conservancies, thereby enhancing globally significant biodiversity conservation and
reducing land degradation while, at the same time, providing increased income-generating
opportunities. More importantly, the project was to strengthen the governance aspects of the
conservancies and private sector participation in economic activities. The project also aimed at
providing institutional support to the Ministry of Environment and Tourism (MET), which is the
lead government agency responsible for implementing the National CBNRM program, in its
efforts to coordinate regional and local agencies and the GRN’s decentralization process.

7.      During preparation, the WB did not have a country assistance strategy for Namibia. The
WB had had limited involvement in Namibia at that time, by providing technical assistance to
support the GRN’s efforts to reduce poverty and to support decentralization. The WB’s
involvement in ICEMA was the first operation in the country and was justified on the following
grounds: a) the project was an opportunity for the WB to cooperate with the GRN for the first
time in a project of unique national and global benefits; b) the project would contribute to two of
the main development objectives of Namibia’s National Development Plan; and c) the project
would support improvements in living standards among the rural poor by creating employment
opportunities and strengthening a natural resource management model that maximizes the socio-
economic advantages of the conservancies without compromising the globally valuable
biodiversity. Soon after the ICEMA project was approved, the GRN and the WB developed a
second GEF operation “the Namibia Coast Conservation and Management Project? (NACOMA).

8.      ICEMA was consistent with the priorities of the GEF operational programs for integrated
ecosystem management (OP12) and for arid and semi-arid ecosystems (OP1). Also, the project
was in line with GEF Strategic Priority 2 for Biodiversity, as conservation would be enhanced
and mainstreamed into the various production landscapes (mainly wildlife, forestry and tourism).

1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators
9.      As stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the ICEMA Project Development
Objective (PDO) stated that community-based integrated ecosystem management practices are
supported by the National CBNRM framework and used by targeted conservancies. Its Global
Environment Objective (GEO) was to restore, secure and enhance key ecosystem processes in
targeted conservancies with biodiversity and land conservation and sustainable use as a goal.


                                                2
10.     The Grant Agreement stated the PDO differently “to assist the Recipient in promoting
community-based integrated ecosystem management that generates socioeconomic benefits for
conservancies?. Despite the difference in the way the PDO was stated, the key indicators were
the same in the PAD and the Grant Agreement. For the purposes of the ICR, the PAD PDO and
indicators are used.

11.     The Key Indicators to measure overall project performance (KPIs) were:
For the PDO:
     Around 25,000 km2 of communal land under integrated sustainable ecosystem
        management as defined by the National CBNRM Program.
     80% of targeted conservancies committees are effectively managing and deploying
        efficiently and sustainably their natural, human, financial and other resources according
        to the objectives of their conservancy plans.
     MET as CBNRM lead agency has established effective partnerships with other agencies
        and institutions, including local governments, NGOs and the private sector to enable
        achievements of project objectives in an efficient and effective manner.
For the GEO:
     Populations of targeted threatened fauna and flora remain at current levels or have
        increased in targeted conservancies (5 species specified).
     Biological monitoring indicates that the integrity of the target sites remains secure with
        no significant changes in habitat.

1.3 Revised GEO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification
12.    Key Indicators, GEO and KPIs were not formally revised during implementation.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
13.     The primary target group of the project, as identified in the PAD, consisted of the
communal conservancies and their community members including populations of the indigenous
peoples “San? targeted by the project (initially 15 target sites, later 16 sites), non-governmental
organizations, the Ministry of Environment and Tourism (MET), and the Ministry of Agriculture,
Water and Forestry (MAWF) through its Directorate of Forestry (at the time of appraisal under
MET).

14.     The secondary beneficiaries, as described in the PAD, were the other line ministries
involved in CBNRM such as the Ministry of Lands and Resettlement (MLR), the Ministry of
Local Government, Housing and Rural Development (MRLGHRD), the Regional Councils,
private enterprises engaged in joint ventures, tourism investments with conservancies and other
NRM-based enterprises.

1.5 Original Components
15.     The project comprised three inter-related components and project administration.

16.      Component 1: Ecosystem-based Income-Generating Activities (US$ 2.20 million):
This component was designed to provide resources to local communities in order to help them
generate socio-economic benefits. The component supported a Community-Funding Facility
(CFF) to finance sub-projects (micro-projects) using detailed selection criteria agreed with the
WB and targeting wildlife, tourism, forestry, and multi-sector (e.g., non-timber forest products
(NTFP)) activities. The component also provided support for the dissemination of information to
eligible communities, so that they may access the CFF, technical support at the conservancy level



                                                3
for strategic business planning and establishing a benefit sharing mechanism, and support to
implement sub-projects.

17.      Component 2: Sustainable Ecosystem Management (US$ 2.08 million): This
component aimed at strengthening conservancies to incorporate an integrated ecosystem
management (IEM) approach to natural resources management. The component supported: a) the
establishment of the methodology for planning and monitoring the use of an IEM approach at the
community conservancies level; b) the development of management plans in 15 (later 16)
conservancies using the IEM approach; c) the implementation of site-specific key prioritized
activities in the 15 (later 16) conservancies for ecosystem restoration, wildlife translocation and
other ecosystem management activities as outlined in the IEM plans; and d) the development and
implementation of an IEM Monitoring and Evaluation system.

18.     Component 3: Targeted Institutional Support (US$$ 1.13 million): This component
was designed to strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Environment and Tourism (MET) to
carry out strategic planning, implementation, monitoring and replication of activities to
strengthen the National CBNRM program and policies in Namibia. The component was also to
strengthen the administrative capacity of individual conservancies. The component specifically
supported: a) policy research (identifying and funding of targeted CBNRM research issues to be
undertaken or guided by a technical and scientific roster of experts); b) an assessment of the
current National CBNRM strategy and institutional set-up in order to identify and implement a
training plan for MET's centralized and decentralized staff; c) formalization of a CBNRM
consultative forum to discuss policy issues and progress within the National CBNRM Program;
d) equipment and operating costs as well as limited training and workshop budget for
conservancy management needs; and e) training and technical assistance to MET and
conservancy staff to improve CBNRM scientific monitoring and evaluation activities and to
further develop and adapt its central M&E system to the expanding needs of the CBNRM
program.

19.     Component 4: Project Management Support (US$ 1.69 million): This component
supported the management costs to supervise the ICEMA activities. It provided the necessary
equipment and training for the Project Office (PO) staff to perform the administrative functions
(technical planning, budgeting, procurement, financial management and auditing, monitoring
progress and reporting).

1.6 Revised Components
20.    Project components remained unchanged during implementation.

1.7 Other significant changes
21.     The project had one formal amendment of the Grant Agreement, dated November 2009,
to extend the closing date from January 31, 2010 to March 31, 2011. The extension was
requested to complete sub-projects under component 1 that had experienced delays (see Section
2.2), due to the need to establish certain procedures before funds could be disbursed.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
22.     Project preparation started in January 2002 and two and a half years later, in November
2004, the grant was declared effective, five and a half months after approval. In July-August
2005, the WB’s Quality Assurance Group carried out a Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA). The



                                                4
QEA rated overall preparation as moderately satisfactory for Poverty, Gender and Social Aspects,
Environmental Aspects, Institutional Arrangements, Risk Analysis, and WB Inputs and Processes.
The remaining four dimensions: Strategic Relevance and Approach, Technical, Financial and
Economic Aspects, Fiduciary Aspects and Policy and Institutional Aspects were rated satisfactory.
The QEA recognized that the project design built on a strong country context for natural
resources management that started in the 1990, with a rapidly growing base of communal
conservancies, and strong donor support for the sector as well as GRN commitment. During
preparation, the WB played a positive role in building donor collaboration in the sector, and had
better defined its role in Namibia. The design of the project sought GEF support from the
multiple focal area OP12, being one of the first GEF projects involving the relatively new OP12
on Integrated Ecosystem Management. The project adopted lessons from an early GEFSEC
review of OP12 design experience.

23.      The QEA identified two weaknesses: (i) the project would likely face some difficult
institutional issues, such as the role of (foreign-financed) conservation NGOs and the appropriate
role of government in setting parameters and guidelines for local resource use decisions. During
the preparation phase, MET's ownership of the project increased substantially to the point that it
assumed full responsibility for implementation with outsourcing to NGOs, conservancies and the
private sector for MET's non-core activities. During implementation, this weakness was
mitigated and the conservation NGOs worked positively with MET and the communities. (see
paragraph 67); and (ii) weakness in the M&E design which was not uncommon for projects at
that time. Due to the QEA findings, the team improved the M&E system throughout
implementation (see section 2.3). It specifically included definitions and management criteria for
"ecosystem restoration" or “integrated ecosystem management? in the target areas, and developed
and applied a scorecard methodology that was used to measure progress against the PAD
indicators. While the indicators were not revised, their measurement was improved.

24.     The main reasons for the moderately satisfactory QEA rating did not materialize.
However, the ICR team maintains the rating of moderately satisfactory to be consistent with the
QEA. Also, the risk section did not adequately identify the risk of implementation delays of the
sub-grants component. This component was delayed due to the need to have strong community
ownership as well as clearly defined processes and tools. In the risk analysis and mitigation plan
of the PAD some mitigation measures were missing for several of the risks identified, such as
NGO opposition.

25.      Overall, there were several positive features in the quality of preparation: (i) project
intervention sites and/or conservancies were selected using a rigorous process with set criteria
and through a participatory process. Annex 16 of the PAD (Conservancy Profiles and
Prioritization Process) described this process in detail and identified the targeted registered
communal conservancies that would be supported under the project. These were agreed with the
GRN at appraisal and were finalized before negotiations of the Grant Agreement. This selection
proved to be useful to test conservancies in different regions and with different levels of
development; and (ii) the participatory nature of the project design. Annex 20 of the PAD
describes in detail the consultative process with NGOs, communities and different government
directorates. This process ensured that no conflicts came up during implementation.

2.2 Implementation
26.      The project was approved in June 2004 and became effective in November 2004. The
first disbursement was made in February 2005. The Grant Agreement indicated a project
completion date of July 31, 2009 and a closing date of January 31, 2010. However, one extension
of the closing date was requested, until March 31, 2011, to be able to disburse the remaining


                                                5
funds of the sub-projects under component 1 which had experienced delays (see explanation
below). For the day-to-day operation, a Project Office (PO) was based within MET reporting
directly to the Directorate of Environmental Affairs (DEA) and the Directorate of Parks and
Wildlife Management (DPWM) ensuring project ownership by MET and included five staff, a
coordinator, a procurement officer, an accounting officer, a monitoring and evaluation specialist
and a secretary.. The project faced some staff turnover and delays in replacing them, but with the
WB active supervision, implementation took its due course.

27.      A mid-term review (MTR) took place in November 2007 and an independent external
review was financed by the GRN in September 2007 providing inputs into the MTR. The MTR
confirmed that the project design, scope and implementation arrangements were still fully
relevant. Therefore, no restructuring was needed. During the MTR mission, the WB team
recognized the slow disbursement of the Community Funding Facility (CFF) program
(Component 1). The slow disbursement can be ascribed to a number of organizational
requirements that had to be put in place such as: a) finalization of the MET Concession Policy; b)
operation of MET’s concession investments for conservancies; c) lease agreements to be obtained
from land boards; d) social and environmental safeguards to be identified; e) head concession and
operator contracts to be drafted and agreed; and f) preparation of business plans. During
implementation, the Bank team rated the Implementation Progress (IP) in ISRs as moderately
satisfactory mainly due to the slow disbursement of this component. Despite these delays, all the
sub-project funds were disbursed by project closure. Activities funded included tourism joint
ventures, a community-based camp site, a tourism information hub and curio outlet, as well as
projects to supplement household income through aquaculture and beekeeping.

28.      Physical, institutional and management arrangements had to be established and
strengthened at each conservancy level, before the implementation of reasonable and replicable
CBNRM/IEM-based sub-projects could take place. This included the provision of infrastructure
(such as the administrative office of the conservancy) that would allow conservancies to manage
their affairs. The required institutional arrangements that were put in place included assisting the
process of conservancy management from the preparation of resource management plans and the
drafting of work plans and policies to the establishment of enterprise management committees.

29.      Another issue considered during the MTR was that the MET counterpart funding for
ICEMA suffered delays. The financial arrangements for the project included a Special Account
for GEF funds and a Counterpart Fund Account for GRN funds (Annex 6-b of the PAD). In most
GEF projects the grant finances 100 percent of all expenditures as governments were often not
able to provide cash as part of their co-financing requirements to pay for global public goods. In
Namibia, the GRN agreed to provide cash which was not an easy negotiation for MET with the
Ministry of Finances (MOF). Counterpart funding delays were due to the GRN’s system of
government budgeting. This matter was raised during the MTR and other supervision missions
(also explaining the moderately satisfactory ratings for IP in the ISRs. Despite the delays, by
project closure, the GRN honored their commitment and contributed US$ 1.23 million in cash,
more than stipulated in the PAD (around US$ 0.83 million). In addition, the GRN funded the
CBNRM activities through other state budget and off state budget mechanisms such as staff
salary in the field offices and at headquarters. The total counterpart funding (US$ 1.23 million in
cash and US$ 5.32 million in-kind) amounts to US$ 6.55 million, slightly higher than the level
agreed in the PAD (US$ 6.11 million).

30.     In 2005, the French GEF approved a grant worth 1.4 million Euros to support
components 2 and 4 of ICEMA. The French GEF project closed in January 2011 with an overall
positive final evaluation. ICEMA ran in parallel with the USAID/WWF funded LIFE Plus


                                                 6
program that supported the overall CBNRM program. In 2007, there was a reduction of financial
resources in the LIFE Plus program which meant a reduction of financial resources for the
contracted service providers (CSPs) and CBOs. The WB team observed that, although this
reduction in financial resources could have put a strain on the CBNRM activities and ICEMA, it
actually fostered cost-effective and more coordinated efforts by the various CBNRM funding
sources, which also contributed to improved institutional relationships between MET and non-
governmental partners. In 2009, the Millennium Challenge Account (MCA), funded by the US
Government, had started operating in Namibia and provided support to the CBNRM activities
related to ICEMA. Other donors (KfW, Finland and the European Commission) expected at the
preparation stage continued their support throughout ICEMA’s implementation (see Annex 1 of
this ICR).

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
31.      The M&E system for the project was designed taking into consideration existing capacity
and monitoring efforts from involved stakeholders at the local and national levels and the results
of the QEA review. The system was described in the PAD (Annex 18) and in the M&E Manual
for ICEMA. It was developed on the basis of studies and consultations carried out during
preparation and in close cooperation with the National Association of Conservancy Support
Organizations (NACSO) led working groups on NRM, Business and Enterprise Development and
Institutional Development to ensure buy-in and needed contributions from key CBNRM
stakeholders.

32.    Human and financial resources for M&E were defined and agreed upon at appraisal. The
M&E functions were carried out initially by the LIFE Plus program. During the MTR, it was
decided that an M&E specialist be employed by ICEMA as part of the PO as the LIFE Plus
program was closing. The specialist was a highly qualified and experienced Namibian citizen
who had been working on project M&E for several years.

33.     The system was conceived as a bottom-up process of monitoring and feeding data at
relevant levels for progress and performance measurement using the successfully introduced
wildlife-based “Event Book system? in conservancies which was part of the Management
Oriented Monitoring System (MOMS) under the LIFE Plus program. The MET, with support
from the NRM group, promoted the use of the CBNRM Event Book for Local Level Monitoring
and Evaluation.

34.      The Event Book System is a highly successful management and monitoring tool that had
been developed and introduced over the past nine years and was strengthened by ICEMA. This
simple but rigorous monitoring system promotes conservancy involvement in the design,
planning and implementation of natural resource monitoring. Each conservancy decides what
resources it needs to monitor bearing in mind issues on which conservancies are obliged to report
to MET. The resources or themes identified may include human wildlife conflict, poaching,
rainfall, rangeland (veld) condition, predators and bush fires, and a variety of others.
Conservancies monitor a larger suite of resources such as plant foods (melon seed, “mangetti?
nuts in the Euphorbiaceae family, “marula? oil in the Anacardiaceae family), palms, fish, honey,
rangeland, and even livestock. For each topic selected for monitoring, there is a complete system
that begins with data collection, goes through monthly reporting, and includes long-term
reporting.

35.    Every year, an annual ‘audit’ of the system is conducted where all data are collated and
compiled into a conservancy’s Annual Natural Resource Report, which is sent to the MET and
provided to NACSO to update their monitoring databases. Due to its almost universal application,


                                                7
the system is now being ‘exported’ to state and private sector parks in Namibia, as well as to
other countries in Africa and Asia. In addition to day-to-day monitoring through the Event Book,
most conservancies conduct periodic game censuses. ICEMA supported the adaptation and
implementation of the Event Book in all the targeted sites. In addition, ICEMA helped to
mainstream the Event Book for local level IEM M&E in targeted sites and to support its
adaptation for integrated monitoring. This level of monitoring worked very well and continues to
be widely used by the conservancies.

36.     In addition to this bottom-up monitoring system, the project made use of a number of
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and Intermediate Outcome Indicators (IOIs) that were used to
monitor and evaluate progress during the implementation of the various components of ICEMA.
Linkages were established between the 12 IOIs identified in the PAD, the various activity and
output levels and the 5 KPIs. The WB supervision missions spent many hours strengthening the
M&E system and the rating of M&E was always moderately satisfactory due to the difficulties in
reaching agreements on the robustness of the indicators and the methodology to measure them.
After several missions, agreement was reached on the criteria to ensure responsiveness of the
indicators to project interventions and which were designed to: (i) qualify progress for a particular
indicator at a target site level; and (ii) establish linkages and feed data from IOIs to the KPI level.
The M&E system included a methodology for all 5 KPI baseline assessments. In addition, the
M&E system provided for monitoring of project risks, compliance with safeguard instruments
(Environmental and Social Assessment - ESA, IPDP and Resettlement Policy Framework - RPF),
financial management and disbursement as well as implementation performance. The
performance of ICEMA was assessed regularly and reports were produced and sent to the WB
every three months. The final indicators and their values are provided in Annex 2 (a).

37.      An end monitoring report entitled: “Streamlining the Monitoring and Evaluation Systems
of ICEMA and the CBNRM program of MET? was conducted in May 2010. The CBNRM Sub-
Division performed an evaluation of a selected number of sites to assess if the IEM approach had
been incorporated in the management and administration of the conservancies. Four teams
conducted this evaluation. The first team tested the applicability of the open ended questionnaire
that was designed to collect information for this purposes at the Khob Naub conservancy in the
Karas region. The second team went to target conservancies in the North Central region. The
third team went to the Otjozondjupa, Kavango and Caprivi regions and the last team went to the
Kunene region. The evaluations ended in May 2011. Most of the evaluations were carried out at
conservancy offices. The report concentrated on individual evaluations conducted in each target
site (Annex 2 (b) describes some results of this evaluation).

38.      ICEMA also contributed expertise and data to the CONINFO database developed by
NACSO. CONINFO is a data management tool for storing and managing conservation related
data. It comprises 4 main data types: 1) Databases and spread sheets; 2) GIS data; 3) Image data;
and 4) Documentation. Each conservation area (e.g. conservancy, concession, national park) has
its own folder under each data type within which all relevant data are stored. The project has
contributed to state-of-the-art reporting, such as the Annual Conservancy Assessment Report, as
well as a number of videos, reports and brochures (including one on the positive results of the
project with the San population).

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
39.     Environmental Safeguards. The project was classified as environemtal category B and
triggered the following safeguard policies: OP 4.01, OP 4.04, OD 4.20, and OP 4.12. As ICEMA
was expected to be environmentally beneficial by design, the entire project could be interpreted
as an environmental management program. While the project was not expected to have any


                                                  8
significant negative impacts on the environment, the sub-projects in the conservancies supported
by the Community Funding Facility (CFF), such as tourism campsites, handicraft center, office
infrastructure and the meat drying facility, could have resulted in low-level impacts. To ensure
that any potential impact of these activities was identified and mitigated, the ICEMA PO, MET
personnel and the Contracted Service Providers (CSP) were responsible for implementation of the
ESA. This ESA had been prepared in line with Namibia's National Environmental Assessment
Policy, the emerging Environmental Management Bill (approved in 2007) and the applicable WB
safeguard policy. During implementation, almost none of the investments required a full EIA,
except for the joint venture community tourism projects (Etendeka and Khaudum), which were
implemented in a satisfactory manner.

40.      Social Safeguards. ICEMA triggered OP/BP 4.12 in the unlikely event of restricted
access to natural resources as a result of project activities such as: (i) establishment of core
wildlife areas or game camps; and/or (ii) establishment of tourism facilities such as camp sites or
lodges in the conservancy. In all of these cases, such developments were planned to take place in
areas of the conservancy where there is no permanent settlement and that measures are taken to
provide adequate compensation for the potential loss of resources. No people had to be resettled
due to activities of ICEMA. Whenever land was required (e.g., for the Kongola Information Hub
or the Nudi Campsite of the Khob Naub conservancy), the obligatory permissions were obtained
from the relevant land boards or the traditional authority.

41.     ICEMA also triggered OD 4.20 due to the fact that San populations were located in some
of the conservancies. The term San refers to a diverse group of indigenous peoples living in
Southern Africa who share historical and linguistic connections. As part of the Environment and
Social Management Framework for the project, an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP)
was developed during preparation under coordination of MET. The IPDP detailed a plan to
manage the transition process of the San, who no longer live as hunter and gatherers but reside in
permanent settlements, so that they can participate in national development by encouraging their
roles in decision making and overall participation, especially in sub-project planning and
implementation in their conservancy. During the MTR, a review of the IPDP was carried out by
a WB Social Development specialist. The IPDP was considered comprehensive, although
sometimes excessive in details. The IPDP had a detailed Action Plan and Guidelines for its
implementation. It essentially sought to establish equal opportunities for the San in the
organizational, cultural, technical and financial areas. It had a good approximation to the target
population but was affected by the poor quality of data on the San of Namibia. Thus, the
estimates of San population of the conservancies were revised during the mid-term review.

42.     The IPDP was implemented by the WIMSA (Working Group of Indigenous Minorities in
Southern Africa). Most of the planned activities until 2007 had been carried out, although with
delays. They were largely focused on the Na Jaqna and Nyae Nyae conservancies and included:
a) capacity building on governance (roles and responsibilities of the conservancy, financial
management planning, harvesting and processing devil’s claws, community game guard training,
wildlife management and trophy hunting, event book training, and predator identification
training); b) tourism development, supported by game introduction and game water development;
and c) natural resources management activities (particularly improved harvesting, processing and
marketing of devil’s claws).

43.     Compliance with OD 4.20 which was later changed to OP/BP 4.10 (Indigenous People)
and OP/BP 4.12 (Involuntary resettlement/Loss of assets or restricted access to assets) were again
evaluated by a WB Social Specialist in September 2010. The mission’s aide memoire reported
that overall, ICEMA supported capacity building and income generating sub-projects that ensured


                                                9
compliance with both safeguard policies. The IPDP facilitated the further integration of the San
people into the mainstream development of Namibia, however, there were differences in
implementation of the different activities depending on the target sites: The Nyae Nyae
conservancy in East Tsumkwe started with a well established CBO, the Nyae Nyae Development
Foundation of Namibia (NNDFN), which was supported by international development partners
(WWF, USAID etc.). The conservancy still benefits from a number of NGO initiatives,
coordinated predominantly by NNDFN, and a successful commercial hunting operation (African
Safari Hunting). The Nyae Nyae population (approximately 2000 people) is mainly Juhoansi and
is relatively homogenous culturally, with a relatively stable social structure, and a strong sense of
tradition and identity. In contrast, the population of the Na Jaqna conservancy in West Tsumkwe
is a mixture of San people from different areas and sub-ethnic backgrounds (approximately 5000
people, mainly Kung, Vasekela, Juhoansi, Haiom and Mpungu ). In 1976 and 1978, the South
African Defense Force relocated around 1,000 San from Kavango, Caprivi and Angola to West
Tsumkwe. There are also a number of settlers of Kavango and Herero origin in the district. The
San in West Tsumkwe have, until recently, been unable to access services provided by NGOs
resulting in weaker community institutions and limited institutional capacity.

44.      Following the final evaluation, a series of actions were recommended to be conducted by
WIMSA. In July 2011, WIMSA provided a final report responding to most of the requested
actions. These included, among others: a) assistance with the formation of a long-term game
water point plan provided to San people in the project site; b) support to negotiations and capacity
building with Devils Claw buyers; c) grazing management support; and d) a pamphlet for
MET/DoF staff to increase sensitivity to San. What was not concluded was the drafting of an exit
strategy for the Na Jaqna conservancy. One interesting result of the IPDP is that despite differing
views within the CBNRM network, the IPDP has been regarded as most helpful to make the
differing needs of San-led conservancies visible and to report back to decision-makers on actions
taken. WIMSA underwent a number of institutional changes which impacted its performance to
some extent, but WIMSA concurred that the project helped to define priorities and to present
broader program-wide priorities (not a one size fits all approach).

45.      Fiduciary Compliance. The project used the WB’s financial management and
procurement system. Annual audits and the final audit took place as prescribed, and the findings
were to the satisfaction of the MET and the WB. Initially, the WB supervision missions observed
that staffing, internal controls, record keeping, budgeting systems, funds flow arrangements and
audit arrangements were conducted satisfactorily; however, financial reporting and monitoring
and information systems needed improvement and further guidance. With further guidance from
the WB, this situation improved. The final mission reviewed the financial management
arrangements of the project in terms of being capable of recording correctly all transactions and
balances, supporting the preparation of regular and reliable financial statements, safeguarding the
entity's assets, and auditing arrangements, and found them acceptable.

46.     All procurement was satisfactorily handled in accordance with WB procedures.    All
goods procured under the project have been donated to the targeted conservancies and to the
collaborating Directorates of MET. Treasury approval has been granted by the Ministry of
Finance for MET to accept the project vehicles as a donation. The seven vehicles are fully
equipped and well maintained.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
47.     Given the high demand to support existing and new conservancies, building on the
successful implementation of the fourth CBNRM phase, the GRN and long-standing or new
partners have demonstrated continued or new commitments to the CBNRM program for the


                                                 10
coming years, including: WWF in Namibia has successfully secured strong support from the
WWF Network (Netherlands, Norway, Germany, US) for strategic elements of the CBNRM
program, with anticipated annual investment levels of approximately US$ 3 million/yr for the
next five years; WWF-UK funding to Integrated Rural Development and Nature Conservation
(IRDNC) (though on a declining level) is scheduled for conclusion in 2013, providing three more
years of reliable funding assistance to the IRDNC in carrying out field-based support to
conservancies in Kunene and Caprivi; and MCA funding, which is aiming to increase capacity-
building and business assistance to 31 targeted conservancies. This large (US$ 18 million)
investment has commenced with an initial training needs assessment of the targeted
conservancies and will run through 2014.

48.      The next four years will provide an important window of opportunity for the CBNRM
program, moving from its current development stage, to strategically establish funding
mechanisms that can sustainably cover the costs of the critical, core long-term services required
for the conservancies to permanently operate and prosper. In this regard, the permanent funding
of national program support costs will need to be considered such as sectoral coordination,
training of service providers (i.e. training of CBNRM trainers), CBNRM programmatic
monitoring/documentation (i.e. Annual State of Conservancy Reports), and provision of specialist
knowledge and assistance through the three CBNRM pillar working groups (the Natural Resource
Management Working Group (NRM-WG), the Institutional Development and Governance
Working Group (IDG-WG), and Business, Enterprise, and Livelihood Working Group (BEL-
WG).

49.     The MET will continue to collaborate closely with the MCA compact implementation
team on issues of common interest in natural resource management and tourism development.
The following ICEMA target sites form part of MCA’s priority conservancies: Anabeb, Doro
Nawas, Ehirovipuka, Kasika, Khoadi-Hoas, George Mukoya, Muduva Nyangana, Na Jaqna,
Omatendeka, Sheya Shuushona, Sorri Sorris, Uukolonkadhi Ruacana, and the Mudumu North
Complex (MNC) conservancies of Kwando, Mayuni, Mashi and Sobbe. As more than 75 percent
of the ICEMA sites are also MCA target sites (12 conservancies as well as the majority of the
MNC sites), continuous exchange of information has taken place on these conservancies.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
50.      The Project Development Objective was, and continues to remain highly relevant for the
GRN. Support of the development of communal conservancies remains a priority for the GRN
and donors. The CBNRM program was widely recognized and supported in the National
Development Plan II (NDP II) (2001) at the time the project was designed. For example, the
NDP II presented the CBNRM development approaches and conservancies as cross-cutting
strategies to further increase sustainable natural resources management and sustainable use, in ten
of its 48 chapters. Since the ICEMA project, the MET developed a strategy where the CBNRM
was given stronger recognition through staff increase and budget. In the last two years, the GRN
has prepared the Namibia’s Vision 2030 and the National Development Plan III and IV were
sustainable natural resources management is mainstreamed in their development actions.
Although this mainstreaming was facilitated by LIFE Plus and other actors in the sector, it is
important to note that this could not have happened without the Namibian political will to
improve the livelihoods of rural and historically disadvantaged populations and to recognize
CBNRM as a suitable tool for this goal and not only as a “conservation? tool. Namibia’s Vision
2030 specifically mentions the need to ensure the development of Namibia’s natural capital and


                                                11
its sustainable utilization, for the benefit of the country’s social, economic and ecological well-
being across all of their development activities?. The GRN, who approved the MCA in Namibia,
agreed to use a large portion of the funds to strengthen community-based tourism as a mean to
safeguard biodiversity and at the same time generate jobs and livelihood opportunities for poor
communities. The design of the project that included an integrated approach to managing the
conservancies is even more relevant now with the need to diversify the sources of income by
communities (i.e. tourism, game, handicraft and plant resources).

51.      As mentioned earlier, ICEMA was the first investment operation of the WB in Namibia.
At appraisal, the WB was only providing technical assistance to support the GRN’s efforts to
reduce poverty, to support decentralization and urban development, to analyze various sources of
growth and to identify suitable options to strengthen the human capital development including
knowledge management. The PDO and the project design remain relevant to the WB’s
engagement in Namibia. The current Interim Strategy Note (guiding the WB engagement with
Namibia) coincides with the National Development Plan IV and includes technical assistance on
natural resource management, water conservation, energy, and climate change, reflecting the
centrality of environmental sustainability for Namibia's economic development. All major
sources of economic growth and livelihood directly use the country's biodiversity, natural
resources, and environmental services, and are vulnerable to climate change. The WB is also
engaged in the GEF funded NACOMA project that seeks to receive additional funding from the
GEF to implement a second phase. Namibia has also been selected by the WB as one of the
countries that will benefit from the “Wealth and Accounting Valuation of Environmental Services
program?.

3.2 Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives
52.      The PDO stated that community-based integrated ecosystem management practices are
supported by the National CBNRM framework and used by targeted conservancies. This was
realistic and remained relevant throughout. The GEO was to restore, secure and enhance key
ecosystem processes in targeted conservancies with biodiversity, land conservation and
sustainable use as a goal. The Grant Agreement indicated that the PDO was to assist the
Recipient in promoting community-based integrated ecosystem management that generates
socioeconomic benefits for conservancies. This section analyzes the achievement of the PDO as
stated in the PAD. In satisfactorily achieving this objective, the project: a) increased the number
of conservancies that use an integrated ecosystem management (IEM) approach; b) improved the
effective management of the conservancy committees; c) increased the effective partnerships of
MET with other agencies and institutions, including local governments, NGOs and the private
sector; d) maintained levels and/or increased populations of targeted threatened fauna and flora;
and e) increased the integrity of the target sites with no significant habitat change. More
specifically:

53.      Increase the number of conservancies that use an integrated ecosystem management
(IEM) approach: During preparation, the project underwent many discussions about the meaning
of an integrated ecosystem management approach (IEM). In the PAD, the IEM approach referred
to three pillars: (i) the capacity of the conservancies to sustainably use and manage their natural
resources, and to encourage biodiversity conservation; (ii) improved access by rural communities
to enterprise development and income generation; and (iii) strengthened capacity of the
conservancies to enjoy strong and transparent governance structures and equitable sharing of
benefits. During implementation, result was measured by an independent consultancy that further
developed the tool to measure the IEM approach in the target conservancies and carried out a
field evaluation. The tool used eight criteria to determine whether this indicator had been
achieved: a) activities integrate the management of various resources (renewable); b) clear and


                                                12
agreed conservancy objective articulated in IEM plan; c) IEM plan integrates ecological, social
and economic aspects; d) government and NGO involved in IEM planning; e) spatial and
temporal coverage in IEM plan; f) key actions are prioritized in Quarterly Activity Plans; g)
ongoing evaluation and planning within conservancy; and h) ongoing TA support for activity
implementation. For all 16 assessed conservancies all eight criteria were met. Therefore, the ICR
concluded that, at the end of the project, the total area covered by the 16 conservancies that had
adopted the IEM approach was 38,595 km². The target value at appraisal was 25,000 km2, and
therefore this indicator was over achieved (129 percent).

54.     Increase the effective management of the conservancy committees: ICEMA aimed at
reaching this indicator when a minimum of thirteen targeted conservancy committees (or 80
percent) would be effectively managing and efficiently deploying their natural, human, financial
and other resources according to the conservancy plan. This indicator was broadly defined at
appraisal, and was further refined by applying a checklist to measure key actions, capacity
improvements and investment results for each conservancy. In its annual monitoring reports the
project measured this indicator against the following ten criteria:

Natural Resource Management
   1. Integrated Ecosystem Management (IEM) plan in place
   2. Natural Resource (NR) monitoring system in place to monitor resource use
   3. Quota set by MET based on NR monitoring and evaluation respected
   4. The zoning plan is being adhered to
Governance
    5. Decision by committee members on use of conservancy funds (civil society participation
        and transparency)
    6. Number of meetings held with conservancy committee members
    7. Members have access to conservancy information
Financial sustainability and economic development
    8. Conservancy takes over financing of staff (number of conservancy members employed)
    9. Extent to which conservancy matches annual income to expenditure
    10. Extent to which the conservancy plans for financial sustainability

55.     Agreements had been reached between the WB and the GRN that in order to meet the
broad indicator, 8 out of the 10 criteria would have to be met (80 percent) by project closure. The
final monitoring report showed that all 16 conservancies had fulfilled at least 8 criteria, thus the
project met this indicator. The extent to which a conservancy would match its annual income to
its expenditure (criteria 9), however, was only reached by 11 conservancies and the extent to
which a conservancy took over the financing of its own staff (criteria 8) was only reached by four
conservancies (Kasika, Impalila, Khoadi Hoas, Doro Nawas).

56.      Increase the effective partnerships of MET with other agencies and institutions, including
local governments, NGOs and the private sector: The original target was that MET engages in
five partnerships by the end of the project. During the annual monitoring supervision, the
partnerships achieved by the project were numerous and significantly more than five. The
effective partnerships included: (i) cooperation between MET with all the service providers
(governmental and non-governmental); (ii) public consultation by MET to develop new CBNRM
related policies and legislation; (iii) cooperation between MET and the Department of Forestry to
integrate conservancy and community forestry initiatives; (iv) support by MET to develop the
enabling framework for CBOs to access and develop business opportunities; (v) cooperation
between MET and CBO and NGOs to establish the CBNRM M&E system and integrate it with
other systems; (vi) collaboration between MET and the Country Partnership Pilot (CPP) on


                                                13
income generating activities, integrated rangeland management and climate change in some of the
conservancies targeted in the project; and (vii) collaboration between MET and the MCA
program on tourism related activities in some of the conservancies targeted in the project.

57.      Maintain levels and/or increase populations of targeted threatened fauna and flora: The
project was able not just to maintain the levels of key species populations, but to increase several
populations of targeted threatened fauna and flora. This was mainly accomplished through the
game translocation program that ICEMA financed (see Table 1). During the ICR mission, game
translocation investments were identified by communities as the most positive outcome of the
project. They are considered to be a long term investments and are already beginning to have an
impact. All these translocations serve to improve the tourism attraction of target sites while also
offering direct benefits through increased animal harvests following strict quotas provided by
MET.

    Table 1: Number of translocated individuals of each species under the ICEMA Project

 Species                    # translocated           Species                  # translocated
 Blue Wildebeest                     230             Burchell’s zebra                   193
 Sable                                37             Giraffe                            107
 Kudu                                233             Common Impala                      266
 Eland                               461             Hartmann’s zebra                   251
 Hartebeest                          351             Oryx                               339
 Black faced Impala                  203             Springbok                          350
 Black Rhino                          18

58.      The extension of the endemic black-face impala and the boosting of their populations in
key areas (Uukolonkadhi Ruacana, Ehirovipuka, Khoadi-Hôas, Doro Nawas) has contributed
significantly to the conservation status of the species, thereby supporting the national
management plan. ICEMA has provided considerable assistance for the extension of the black
rhino range to a number of conservancies and has supported the implementation of the custodian
program in these areas. Besides the global environmental benefit of a less fragmented population,
the involvement of rural people in species management has added to the security of the species,
which had previously been decimated by the radically increasing poaching threat elsewhere in
Africa and especially in southern Africa. Not only the extension of range and the boosting of
existing non-viable populations have been significant, but also the management of the species has
improved through additional training for its management. In the case of Khoadi-Hôas, the project
also has been able to demonstrate that the management costs of the conservancy are adequately
covered by the increased revenues from enhancement of the tourism product. Responsible and
sustainable rhino-based tourism represents an additional global benefit.

59.      Wild dogs are arguably the most threatened large predator on the continent with a
shrinking range in Namibia and under considerable threat. The wildlife introductions to Na-Jaqna,
coupled with support for a natural resource-based local economy, have contributed to the
possibility of using an additional 800,000 hectares habitat. Similarly, the zoning of the southern
areas of Muduvu Nyangana and George Mukoya conservancies as wildlife areas has created a
buffer for the species in the Khaudum National Park. Elephants are the source of considerable
human wildlife conflict (HWC) and threaten to undermine the success of the CBNRM program in
some areas. ICEMA, by supporting the development of a national HWC policy and
implementation plan, has promoted long-term mitigation against this potential conflict. This has
been further supported at the site level through the provision of water point solutions in both,



                                                14
southern Kunene and Caprivi. These steps have greatly contributed to reduced conflict between
humans and elephants.

60.      Increase the integrity of the target sites with no significant habitat change: ICEMA had
set this indicator at appraisal and agreement was reached that it would be measured by the fixed
point photography technique. The fixed point photography is one of the most effective and robust
methods to monitor vegetation change. The results indicate that the integrity of the target sites
had increased as indicated by the change in the percentage of tree cover between 2007 and 2010
(see Table 2) in the eight conservancies measured.

    Table 2: Tree cover measured in 2007 and 2010 in selected sites in 8 Conservancies

 Conservancies                                            Tree cover (%)
                                                         2007                          2010
 Huab                                                     28.1                          31.0
 Khoadi Hoas                                              30.0                          33.0
 Anabeb                                                   21.0                          23.3
 Doro Nawas                                               12.1                         15.0
 Ehirovipuka                                              19.0                          27.0
 Omatendeka                                                  -                          21.4
 Sorri Sorris                                            20.1                          23.0
 Uukolonkadhi/Ruacana                                     26.2                         22.0


3.3 Efficiency
61.      At the time of appraisal there were no requirements to include calculations of economic
and financial rates of returns. The project was a stand-alone GEF project with a GEF grant and
counterpart funding from GRN. No benefit or cost-effectiveness parameters were calculated, and
would be extremely difficult to calculate ex-post. Despite these hindrances, efficiency was
assessed by: a) the inputs and returns in the CBNRM program available in an independent
evaluation; b) the results at project closure of the incremental cost analysis presented in the PAD
(Annex 4); and c) the efficiency achieved by the collaboration of different organizations to
deliver technical assistance to the conservancies.

62.      a) A report by Barnes (2008) measured the efficiency of the CBNRM program in
Namibia based on inputs and returns of all conservancies between 1990 and 2005 (which
included the 16 conservancies supported by ICEMA). The conclusions show on one hand that
communities in these conservancies derive positive net returns to their investments in tourism-
driven and that the overall government and donors spending in the CBNRM program has resulted
in tangible economic benefits. The internal rate of return of the whole program investment over
the 16 years period was close to 15 percent and the net present value of the investment over the
period after discounting at 8 percent was US$ 7.8 million. The fact that investment in the
CBNRM program generated a higher return (15 percent) and a positive net present value, allows
the conclusion that it was economically efficient and contributed positively to development. The
report further concludes that community conservancy investments, in which tourism is the
dominant land use, are economically efficient and contribute positively to national economic
wellbeing. ICEMA funded tourism related activities in all 16 conservancies. For example,
ICEMA supported MET to move black rhino to conservancy areas and to seek ways of allowing
the species to enhance tourism values. Also, the Khoadi-Hôas pilot sub-project with the
Grootberg Lodge is a prime example of how biodiversity management and tourism provide


                                                15
additional revenue to conservancies. It is likely that this enterprise also provides additional
security for rhinos in the face of increasing threats.

63.      b) The GEF methodology of incremental cost analysis compares a baseline scenario
(activities that will promote sustainable land use in the country without GEF support) with the
cost of the GEF-supported scenario. At appraisal, incremental cost was estimated at US$ 10.63
million (PAD, p.81). Of the incremental expenditures of US$ 10.63 million, GEF was requested
to fund US$ 7.1 million; the balance would be funded by the French GEF and by the GRN. At
closing, incremental cost was US$ 10.15 million.

64.     c) The collaboration in the CBNRM program and ICEMA has been exceptional,
particularly in the way that the conservancies have received technical support, capacity-building,
and facilitation which is highly efficient and collaborative and consists of a synergistic mix of
government and NGO support. MET has provided the legal policy/legislative basis for the
program and some training, technical support, and enforcement of regulations on a range of
natural resource-related matters. MET has been strongly complemented by a number of field-
based NGOs and the University of Namibia, which work under the umbrella of the National
Association of Conservancy Support Organizations (NACSO). Through a joint endeavor, MET
and NACSO members have provided on-the-ground training and technical guidance for a wide
range of activities through three programmatic support pillars. These pillars include: (i) natural
resource management (NRM); (ii) institutional development and governance (IDG); and (iii)
community benefits through strengthened business, enterprise, and livelihood opportunities. In
addition, NACSO has played a strong sectoral coordination role ensuring that the various NGOs
are working in tandem with one another and promoting programmatic monitoring efforts through
the collection of the monitoring data required to produce the Annual State of Conservancy
Reports.

65.      The various activities allowed the directorates to leverage resources to undertake
activities which were captured in MET’s annual work plan and which ensured that activities were
aligned and not seen as an add-on. By this means, ICEMA supported “mainstreaming? key
activities which, prior to the project, had been largely conducted by NGOs. However, rather than
weakening partnerships between MET and NGOs, this served to strengthen MET and the
partnerships. A few pertinent examples include:
     The annual Kunene Game Count which is now jointly organized and managed by MET.
         This is a key activity which supports quota-setting and hence is a pre-requisite for
         ensuring the most significant benefits for conservancies in the region.
     Game translocations - with support from ICEMA, MET has taken control of what is an
         annual activity in its work plan. Also with support from ICEMA, MET has sought
         alternative funding assistance beyond ICEMA (e.g., from the EU and MCA).
     Support for local-level monitoring which is now embossed in the MET work plan and
         provides the mechanism for long-term M&E.
     MET is playing an active role in the harmonization of conservancy and community forest
         approaches. To this end, a natural resources working group has been established and is
         chaired by the Director of Forestry.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
66.     ICEMA was the first WB investment project in Namibia. The GRN and its various
partners had decided that a new project with the WB was to attempt to introduce the integrated
ecosystem management (IEM) concept to optimize the positive ecological, economic and social



                                               16
benefits of activities aimed at maintaining or restoring ecosystem structure and functions in 16
conservancies. At the end of the project, the total area covered by the 16 conservancies that had
adopted the IEM approach was 38,595 km2. The target value at appraisal was that 25,000 km2,
which means that this indicator was over achieved (129%). ICEMA achieved its objectives and
the overall impact and development of the conservancies are numerous, particularly in terms of
the participatory management of the conservancies, the conservation and sustainable utilization of
biodiversity (wildlife, useful plants and other resources) and on the improved livelihood of local
communities. The PDO was satisfactorily achieved as discussed in section 3.2. In addition, the
project put the legal framework in place and generated strong experience by incorporating IEM to
the GRN’s CBNRM program and creating the enabling conditions to link economic incentives
with environmental management and wildlife conservation through strengthened ownership at the
local level.

67.     As a result of the support provided by ICEMA, a more conservancy-centered approach
has been adopted to planning and implementation. MET and the PO worked closely with CSPs
and target sites to identify investments which would either enhance the resource base or mitigate
HWC (e.g. wildlife water points, wildlife translocations, etc.), provide a platform for improved
integrated resource management (e.g. building offices), act as a catalyst for further investments
and income generation (e.g. the Sorri Sorris office was the catalyst for the development of an
enterprise centre and the Huab office for a firewood enterprise) or would improve the benefits to
the membership (e.g. meat handling facilities which improves meat distribution BUT also paves
the way for value addition through meat processing – biltong, smoked game - and better
management of hides).

68.      A recent study conducted by MCA (2010) carried out a conservancy needs assessment.
The report ranked 28 conservancies based on their capacities to manage their financial,
institutional, natural resource, wildlife, human wildlife conflict, business, tendering, and
negotiating responsibilities and to identify and manage tourism enterprises and benefit
distribution. The results are positive and indicate that mature conservancies have increased their
capacities in moving towards sustainability. Their financial, institutional and natural resources
management approaches have improved over the years. The report points out that future
investment in CBNRM should focus on business development, management of tourism
enterprises and joint venture tendering.

69.       Although no socio-economic indicators were monitored under ICEMA, abundant data
exists showing that ICEMA and the CBNRM program are succeeding in raising the living
standards of people living in the target conservancies through the provision of operational funds,
facilities, and training to conservancy staff and committees, as well as by funding game
translocations and, income generating sub-projects such as camp sites or joint tourism ventures
and through the provision of water infrastructure for game, to mention but a few. Between 2005
and 2009, the total revenues, including cash (salaries, jobs from the tourism sector and various
payments) and proceeds from other sources (e.g. meat sold and consumed, plants utilized and
sold), for all the conservancies increased substantially from US$ 1.4 million in 2005 to US$ 3.5
million in 2009 (NACSO, 2009). Also, the increase in the number of registered conservancies
established since the start of ICEMA (from a baseline of 42 in 2005 to 59 in 2010) indicates that
the CBNRM initiative has gained growing popularity over the years at both the national and
international levels.

70.     ICEMA went beyond what it was set to accomplish which was to deliver conservation
and livelihood efficient-activities at each conservancy level, but it also supported larger scale
impacts. Landscape-level management was one of the key approaches for management of a


                                               17
range of resources that was tested by ICEMA. The Mudumu North Complex (MNC) consists of
four conservancies, three community forests and three national parks. The inhabitants have
pooled resources and expertise to manage those resources at the landscape level, including: (i)
joint management; (ii) game monitoring; (iii) zoning and wildlife corridors; (iv) human wildlife
conflicts; and (v) economic development through wildlife, tourism, agriculture and crafts. This
complex has been supported by MET, INRDC, WWF, the French GEF and ICEMA. The
mainstreaming of this approach and the associated positive biodiversity outcomes will have long-
term global outcomes for ecological processes and species management. ICEMA and the French
GEF have specifically supported joint management, translocations, tourism activities and training.
It is likewise worth noting that conservancies to the south of Mudumu National Park formed a
similar complex towards the end of 2010 and are using the MNC as a model upon which to base
their approach.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
71.     The project was not designed as a targeted poverty alleviation project. However, it was
designed to enable local communities to benefit from improved income generation activities, such
as game hunting, tourism, sale of products and the Community Funding Facility (CFF) sub-
projects. MET actively engaged with a number of stakeholder groups to support community
development with a view towards increasing educational and training activities and support to
sub-projects. ICEMA delivered some concrete outcomes to aid poverty alleviation and social
development, including:
     Household income - as a measure of the growth of importance and value of communal
        conservancies, in 1998 cash income and non-cash income to CBNRM activities was
        N$ 1.15 million. By 2008, benefits from the same had increased to N$ 42 million
        (NACSO, 2008).
     Benefits through tourism activities created much needed employment, especially for
        young rural school leavers for whom opportunities are limited. Skills development and
        capacity building have greatly improved their chances in life.
     Access to markets for a range of natural products came under the umbrella of
        conservancy organizational support - e.g. Commiphora gum harvested for sale
        internationally.

72.     In February 2011, the PO carried out an assessment of 18 CFF sub-projects. The
assessment measured the benefit and business impact piloted by ICEMA measuring marketing
NR products; environmental benefits; livelihoods improvement; diversification of IEM income;
employment creation; income generation by the community; and outsourcing complementary
enterprises.

73.     The assessment was qualitative and did not provide the exact number or monetary values
gained, but informed whether the sub-project had succeeded in one or more of these aspects.
Overall, this assessment found that the activities that mostly benefitted the communities included:
craft development and marketing (Khoadi Hoas and Otjituuo), renovation and operationalization
of campsites (Anabeb), establishment of the community-based professional hunters camp
(Ehirovipuka), refurbishment of the Omatoko Valley rest camp (N’Jaqna), sustainable harvesting
and marketing of the medicinal plant, devil’s claw, from the Pedialacea family (Nyae Nyae and
N’Jaqna), improvement of community camp site workshop facility (Joseph Mbangandu),
sustainable harvesting and marketing of Commiphora resin (Puros), construction and operation of
beekeeping facilities (Nyae Nyae and the Mudum North complex), aquaculture (Khaudum North
complex), tourism joint ventures (Khaudum North complex), outsourcing operation of Nudi
Camp Site (Khob Naub), and construction of the Kongola Tourism Information Hub (Mudumu


                                                18
North complex). As can be seen from this list of benefits, ICEMA has directly supported the
welfare of communities living in the 16 conservancies supported by the project.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
74.      The project supported the first five-year MET Strategic Plan and the re-structuring
process of MET, which has been completed and is being implemented in a phased approach.
Besides direct contributions to this strategic process, the mere presence of ICEMA as a MET
CBNRM project provided a positive re-enforcement to Strategic Theme 4 (Develop and Support
CBNRM) of MET’s strategic plan. The project was also able to strengthen, through specific
activities, Strategic Theme 5 (Support to Rural Development) whereby a number of activities
were supporting local economic development. It is important to note that the ICEMA and MET
work plans were also integrated at coordination level with the CBRNM Support Division (CSD),
as well as at the regional level, where the PO participated in work plans with the Kunene MET
regional staff.

75.      A positive aspect of implementation was the high level of cooperation and partnership,
building on and further strengthening a long history of inter-agency collaboration to promote
natural resources management in the community conservancies of Namibia. The PO was advised
by a Steering Committee (SC).

76.     The ICEMA SC operated throughout implementation and included the MET Permanent
Secretary and all the MET directors (Directorate of Scientific Services (DSS), Directorate of
Forestry (DOF), Directorate of Parks and Wildlife Management (DPWM), Directorate of
Tourism (DOT) and Directorate of Environmental Affairs (DEA)). The SC would approve
annual work plans while MET staff and the PO were engaged in activity implementation. MET
staff across directorates were involved in local level monitoring (LLM), IEM planning and
implementation, game introductions/translocations, Community-Funding Facility (CFF)
appraisals, policy development and TA to conservancies. In addition, ICEMA and MET regional
work plans were coordinated.

77.      The PO was involved with different Directorates in developing the MET annual work
plans, thus ensuring that project activities remained MET activities. ICEMA also blended very
well with the existing consultative groups (e.g. the National Association of Conservancy Support
Organizations (NACSO)). ICEMA’s capacity building activities substantially improved the
executing agency’s managerial capacity and knowledge to lead the CBNRM program.

78.     The project was well implemented thanks to the award of successful TA contracts to the
Conservancy Service Providers (CSP), which included: the Namibia Development Trust (NDT),
the Integrated Rural Development and Nature Conservation (IRDNC), the Mudumu North
Complex (MNC), the Welwitchia Development Trust, the Namibia Nature Foundation, the
Rössing Foundation and, the Voluntary Services Overseas (VSO). During the final year, funding
was also provided directly to a few ICEMA conservancies to fund activities included in their
annual work plans. This step was taken to assess the capacity of the management cadre to
identify needs, calculate costs, implement activities, report on the outcomes achieved and carry
out financial and auditing functions. This experience turned out to be successful and set out the
stage for future operations such as that supported by the MCA. Some funding was also used to
assist conservancies in the implementation of the micro-enterprise sub-projects. While this
component initially disbursed slowly, a number of significant initiatives assured full disbursement




                                                19
                                     1
towards the end of the project . The design and implementation of the Indigenous Peoples’
Development Plan (IPDP) was contracted out to WIMSA (Working Group of Indigenous
Minorities in Southern Africa). This activity is discussed in Section 2.4 below.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
79.      ICEMA’s impact went beyond the intended outcomes. The MCA adopted the IEM
approach as the implementation approach to be mainstreamed at MCA program level, and the
GEF NAM-PLACE initiative also builds on the achievements of ICEMA. The GEF NAM-
PLACE initiative, which has recently been approved and commenced in mid 2011, includes the
MNC and 4 or 5 other target sites that have enjoyed ICEMA’s support and where “lessons learnt?
from this experience were used in the project design. The approach of providing grants to
conservancies based on focused activities and delivering outputs represents a departure from just
providing funding for straight operational costs. This approach is further refined by the target
sites requesting specific services from their service providers and paying directly for this support.
This approach has been adopted by MCA and gives new direction to the way conservancies
conduct business.

80.     One legacy left by this component is the fact that the procedures to provide income-
generating grants to conservancies were tested and adjusted and now these same procedures are
being used in new donor funded government programs such as the MCA and the Country Pilot
Program (CPP) that provide support to communal conservancies in Namibia.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
81.      Meetings with community members in five conservancies were convened by MET during
the ICR mission to discuss the results of the ICEMA project. Valuable comments were provided
that can be summarized as follows:
      The project had positive effects on biodiversity conservation and on territorial and land
         use management, in particular the introduction of game species, and the zoning plans
         were praised as a key contribution from the project and to increasing tourism revenues.
      The construction and furbishing of the conservancies’ management offices, the support of
         a few salaries to run the offices and training to conservancy committee members are
         having a long lasting benefit. Conservancies are now perceived internally and externally
         as legitimate entities. Resolution of land titling and other issues and decisions on
         outsourcing concessions and new projects has increased in most conservancies as they are
         able to negotiate with a single voice. The conservancies’ governance structure and
         offices are seen as nodes for rural development.
      Some of the challenges that remain are the need for training and legal advice to avoid
         unfair deals and illegitimate operations with some dishonest trophy hunters and lodge
         concessionaries. Specific cases where, lamentably, the communities were cheated on
         were described during the meetings.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate
82.     For this project, the Risk to Development Outcome is assessed in terms of the global
objectives, which comprise the long-term beneficial impacts from an IEM approach to manage


1
    A list of all the sub-projects and their accomplishments is provided in Annex 2-b.


                                                       20
the conservancies and enhanced local community and intermediary NGOs capacities to generate
incomes. The overall assessment is based on the following elements:
     Technical: Negligible to Low. The interventions were designed with the best available
        knowledge and experience to achieve the project outcomes.
     Financial: High. The CBNRN initiatives are expensive and require long-term financial
        support to increase the capacity of communities to become self-sustaining. More
        conservancies are being established, which will require continuous donor and GRN
        support. Under ICEMA, three joint ventures were established with the potential for
        replication under the MCA; however, additional financial resources will be required to
        replicate this experience.
     Economic: High. Economic benefits from an integrated ecosystem management
        approach to the conservancies are documented in general terms in the NACSO report
        (2010). The Community Funding Facility under ICEMA supported economic activities
        but the benefits of these activities have not been quantified in economic terms. Also, to
        sustain these economic benefits will require continued technical assistance and funding.
     Social: Moderate. The conservancy movement in Namibia has strong social roots and
        the GRN, the CSP through NACSO and the donors have been providing constant support,
        thereby increasing the social benefits and ensuring the equitable sharing of benefits.
     GRN ownership/commitment: Moderate. The Ministry of Environment and Tourism is
        committed to supporting the management of the conservancies to ensure ecological and
        economic sustainability. New GRN programs such as the Environment Fund capitalized
        at US$ 30 million suggests that GRN commitment to the CBNRM program remains firm.
     Other stakeholder ownership: Low. The CSP, private sector and local governments have
        increased their interactions and partnerships with conservancies over time. This trend is
        likely to continue given the economic return from tourism activities in Namibia which is
        a fast growing sector and the fact that so much land where wildlife is located is titled to
        communities.
     Institutional support: Low. The close collaboration among the different government
        programs to support conservancies has been growing. The committees and advisory
        boards have made a difference in preparing joint work programs and avoiding duplication
        of efforts.
     Governance: Moderate. While the conservancies that have been supported under
        ICEMA have adopted more transparent governance structures, these structures require
        continuous technical assistance and training, especially when members rotate. In
        addition, new conservancies will require training and infrastructure support to set up their
        governance structures.
     Natural disasters exposure: High. Namibia has been subject in recent years to serious
        floods that have affected some of the conservancies’ territories. These events are likely
        to increase over time due to global and regional climate change patterns.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
83.     The Quality at Entry review rated performance as moderately satisfactory. The main
reasons for the moderately satisfactory rating of the project design and quality at entry in the
QEA did not materialize (see section 2.2 Implementation). However, the ICR team maintains the
moderately satisfactory rating to be consistent with the QEA. Also, the risk section did not


                                                21
adequately identified the risk of delays in the implementation of the sub-grants component. This
component was delayed due to the need to develop strong community ownership as well as
clearly defined processes and tools. The risk analysis and mitigation plan in the PAD lacked some
of the mitigation measures for several of the risks identified, such as the mitigation for the risk of
NGO opposition.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
84.      Supervision has been unusually proactive and diligent. The skill mix of the supervision
team has been appropriate and staff continuity very good. The Task Team leader that prepared
the project supervised it until 2009, one year before project closure. WB staff provided regular
(twice a year) supervision mission during implementation.               Mission findings and
recommendations are documented in detailed aide memoires, which are available for all years.
The project benefitted from constructive criticism from the independent mid-term evaluation.
The MTR in November 2007 was comprehensive and resulted in an action plan with
recommendations that were later implemented. Efforts may have been hampered by the slow
disbursement of the community sub-projects, but this is not unusual for activities targeting
communities which often require some time for investments to materialize. The important point
is that at the end, the subprojects were operating and had disbursed the funds. The social and
environmental safeguards were well monitored, with appropriate actions taken. The team rated
the project in an appropriate way with most ISRs having ranked the likelihood that the project
would achieve its GEO as satisfactory while Implementation Performance (IP) was rated
moderately satisfactory. This lower rating of the IP was a constant reminder to conclude the
project successfully.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
85.     The overall WB performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory based on performance at
entry.

5.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
86.      The GRN has maintained continuous commitment to ICEMA since its establishment.
The GRN agreed at time of appraisal to provide direct cash contributions to a Counterpart Fund
Account. Annex 6-b of the PAD includes the percentage of government cash to be contributed by
the government which amounted to approximately US$ 0.83 million. Despite delays in the
disbursement of these funds due to budgetary transfer issues, by project closure, the GRN had
honored its commitment and contributed US$ 1.23 million in cash, more than stipulated in the
PAD. As mentioned earlier, this was unusual for GEF projects to contribute cash because most of
the government counterparts are in kind. In addition, the GRN funded the CBNRM activities at a
steady pace through other state budget and off state budget mechanisms such as staff salary in the
field offices and at headquarters (US$ 5.32 million). This funding was critical to ensure the
implementation of ICEMA.

87.     During implementation, the GRN showed its priority to safeguard Namibia’s
environment and natural resources by issuing the Promulgation of the Environmental
Management Act, 2007 (Act No. 7 of 2007) by the Parliament. Passing this law was included in
the results framework of the PAD. ICEMA had included two additional bills in the PAD as
output indicators for the project - namely the Parks and Wildlife Management Bill and the Access
to Biological Resources and Associated Traditional Knowledge Bill. Including the passing of


                                                 22
laws as performance indicators was ambitious and currently, most WB projects include the
drafting of bills as the performance indicators, because it is beyond the project’s performance
control to have it approved by the Parliament. In the case of the Parks and Wildlife Management
Bill, it has been drafted and has undergone all the internal reviews within MET. It is now
awaiting the enactment. Regarding the other bill, MET was awaiting the final approval of the
Access and Benefit Sharing (ABS) protocol that was only approved in Nagoya in 2010 during the
COP 10 of Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD). There was no point for MET to draft its
own law until the international protocol was in place.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
88.      The Directorate of Environmental Affairs (DEA) within MET provided strong leadership
during the implementation of ICEMA by ensuring the participation of four directorates within
MET, although there was a dedicated unit, the CBNRM Sub-Division (CSD), which resides in the
Directorate of Parks and Wildlife Management (DPWM) that played a critical role. The ICEMA
activities were well coordinated across these Directorates at planning, project, and local level,
even with the Directorate of Forests that was moved during implementation to another ministry
(Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry) with the result of aligned community-forest and
conservancy legislation and practices. The various activities allowed the Directorates to leverage
resources to undertake activities which were captured in the MET's annual work plan which
ensured that activities were aligned and not seen as an add-on.

89.      Considering that this project was the first WB investment in Namibia, the ICR team
considers that despite some of the delays in budgeting the government’s contribution and the staff
turnover, the PO office functioned well, particularly in the financial and procurement activities
that did not encounter any major issues. The initial weakness of the M&E system was discussed
earlier, but it was not due to a lack of MET performance, but due to the complexity of the
indicators agreed and was addressed through the employment of a highly qualified M&E
specialist and further detailing and agreement on data collection for the key indicators. ICEMA
supported the adaptation and implementation of the Event Book in all the targeted sites as part of
the M&E system. The Event Book was strengthened by ICEMA and MET has expanded the use
of this excellent system for community forests and national parks (supported by MET UNDP PA
SPAN project).

90.      MET's regional (and to lesser extent national) staff performance at local level increased
significantly during implementation. MET upgraded the regional CBNRM functions with
additional staff and defined more clearly the role of the regional offices. MET played a
fundamental role in defining the roles and functions of all the key players of the CBNRM
program. A few key examples include: (i) the annual Kunene Game Count which is now jointly
organized and managed by MET. This is a key activity which supports quota-setting and hence a
pre-requisite for ensuring the most significant benefits for conservancies in the region; (ii) game
translocations - with support from ICEMA, MET has taken control of what is now an annual
activity in the MET work plan. Also with support from ICEMA, MET has sought alternative
funding assistance beyond ICEMA (EU, MCA); (iii) support for local-level monitoring which is
now embossed in the MET work plan and provides the mechanism for long-term M&E; (iv) MET
played an active role in the harmonization of conservancy and community forest approaches. To
this end, a natural resources working group has been established and chaired by the Director of
Forestry; and (v) support to the development of the Concessions Unit and its functioning as a key
sub-division holds great potential for conservancies adjoining national parks.




                                                23
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
91.      This was the first GEF project to be implemented in Namibia and the GRN and its line
ministries responded positively to working with the WB in a complex and ambitious project.
MET’s Directorate of Environmental Affairs assisted ICEMA throughout its implementation with
financial and institutional resources while the Directorate of Parks and Wildlife Management,
through its CBNRM Sub-Division, assisted with the implementation, monitoring and evaluation
of project activities in the targeted conservancies. One positive aspect of the ICEMA PO is that it
assisted the second WB NACOMA project particularly with setting up its financial management
and procurement procedures which strengthened NACOMA's efficiency and performance during
the first year. Other experiences and lessons from ICEMA were used during the preparation of
the NACOMA project. MET has provided an endorsement for a NACOMA II (GEF-5) project
which clearly demonstrate that MET sees the WB as a strong development partner with whom the
GRN would like to continue its policy and operational dialogue.


6. Lessons Learned

92.     Some key lessons learned from the project include:

93.      Conservancies operate in large, open systems with highly variable climatic conditions.
Rainfall is extremely sporadic. Ungulates move over vast areas in accordance with their
availability for grazing and browsing; predators roam in search of prey and; elephants follow
ancient migration routes. The effects of climate change are likely to increase this variability.
Adaptive management that takes changing circumstances into account is vital in such systems.
Landscape-level management was one of the key approaches for management of a range of
resources that was tested by the ICEMA project. The Mudumu North Complex consisted of four
conservancies and a community forest in which inhabitants pooled their resources and expertise
to manage those resources at a landscape level. This positive experience is worth sharing and
replicating in similar parks and surrounding conservancies not just in Namibia, but throughout
Africa and around the world.

94.      ICEMA has filled important gaps in natural resource management (as acknowledged by
all stakeholders during the ICR mission) thanks to the adoption of the Integrated-Ecosystem
Management (IEM) approach by the CBNRM program. To succeed with IEM, it is important to:
(i) introduce standardized business development approaches based on a vision of sustainability
using a categorization of conservancies and an integrated planning and implementation approach;
(ii) strengthen governance through compliance systems, local level monitoring and financial
management; and (iii) strengthen the concept and capacity to carry and implement ecological and
economic zoning within each conservancy including monitoring of the zoning rules by internal
and external conservancy users. Community-based integrated ecosystem management is now an
accepted and adopted strategic approach and the development of IEM guidelines is leading to an
innovative, integrated CBNRM framework that will involve several line Ministries (MLR,
MAWF, MFMR) in Namibia in addition to MET in the future.

95.     Community sub-projects faced challenges during implementation as indicated in earlier
sections. The main lessons learned for future activities involving income-generation sub-projects
with communities include: (i) focus the resources geographically; (ii) earlier definition of the
thematic focus related to sub-projects; (iii) ensure that the capacity of service providers is in place
before sub-projects are selected; (iv) disseminate the CFF information earlier on through



                                                  24
stakeholder meetings with targeted conservancies and service providers (SPs); and (v) strengthen
the conservancy-level business planning. Retrospectively, the main stakeholders involved - from
CBOs to Government and the WB - underestimated the time and resources needed for sound
business development in conservancies, but also within the Contract Service Provider network.

96.     Large scale translocations of fauna to conservancies within differing biomes and with
different biodiversity, income-generating and development needs were, until the inception of
ICEMA, largely untried and untested. The project was able to develop an implementation
approach which showed good results and attracted significant funding from Enhancing Wildlife-
based Economy in Rural Area Projects (EWERAP) and the MCA to scale up MET/ICEMA
achievements. Key lessons are to ensure that: (i) leadership and strong oversight by one entity
such as the Ministry of Environment manages the entire process and provides technical oversight
and quality control; (ii) this entity provides a quota of animals on an annual basis which may be
moved to conservancies from protected areas; (iii) regular meetings are held with a range of
partners, including field staff, NGO partners and regional experts to agree upon recipients for
different species, taking due cognizance of institutional, ecological, economic and management
issues; (iv) translocations are discussed and agreed with the conservancies, and release sites
agreed upon with field staff participating and contributing to the process; (v) an agreed joint
action plan for the release of the animals is agreed on; (vi) post-release monitoring takes place,
which involves a suite of approaches; (vii) intensified local level monitoring takes place to ensure
the long term success and compensate for any technical failures; and (viii) a satellite and animal
tracking system is used.

97.       Planning, monitoring and evaluation are core aspects of conservancy activities, as they
allow for adaptive management through the strategic use of gathered information. A number of
M&E systems were put in place by MET and its development partners. However, many of these
M&E efforts were either ad hoc interventions required by external funding agencies to determine
the impact of their programs, or they are of a specialized nature that can be linked to the
environmental mandate of MET as regards desertification, bio-diversity, climate change, etc.
What is required, in addition to the above-mentioned efforts, is an M&E system that
is:(i) recurring at fixed intervals; (ii) conducted nation-wide; (iii) institutionalized as an
official/legitimate data gathering exercise; and (iv) standardized, with an enumeration
methodology that allows impact assessment over time.




7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The client raised some issues about the low overall rating of the draft ICR (see Annex 7 for
details).
 (b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                25
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) GEF Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)

                                    Appraisal       Actual/Latest       Percentage of
         Components                 Estimate          Estimate           Appraisal
                                  (US$ million)     (US$ million)           (%)
Component 1                                2.20              1.82                 83
Component 2                                2.08              1.85                 89
Component 3                                1.13              1.36                120
Component 4                                1.69              2.01                118

            Total Project Cost             7.10                 7.04

(b) Financing by Financier
                                     Appraisal   Actual/Latest Percentage
         Source of Funds             Estimate      Estimate    of Appraisal
                                   (US$ million) (US$ million)     (%)
USAID                                    10.29          8.23          90
Borrower                                  6.11          6.55         106
Local Communities                         0.18          0.19         107
EC: European Commission                   3.00          3.22         107
FINLAND: Ministry for Foreign
Affairs                                   1.00          1.07           107
FRANCE: French Agency for
Development                               1.75          1.88           107
Global Environment Facility               7.10          7.04           107
Germany: Kreditanstalt fuer
Wiederaufbau(KFW)                         3.00          3.22           107
TOTAL                                    32.43         31.39            97




                                          26
        Annex 2. Outputs by Component

            (a) Indicators Performance at the End of the Project


                                                                               Base Target        Achieved Score2
Outcome Indicators                                                             line   EOP         EOP
                                                                               2005
PDO – Community based integrated ecosystem management supported by national CBNRM framework + used by
conservancies
KPI 1. Km2 of communal land under sustainable integrated ecosystem             0      25,000      38,595   2
management (IEM) as defined by the National CBNRM program
KPI 2. % of targeted conservancies committees are effectively managing 0              80          100      2
and deploying efficiently and sustainably their natural, human, financial
and other resources according to the objectives of their conservancy
plans.
KP1 3. # Criteria met showing that MET, as CBNRM lead agency,                  0      5           5        1
established effective partnerships with other agencies and institutions,
including local governments, NGOs and private sector to enable
achievements of project objective in an efficient and effective manner.
Score PDO                                                                                                  5/3 or
                                                                                                           160%
GEO – To restore, secure and enhance key ecosystem process in targeted conservancies with biodiversity and land
conservation and sustainable use as a goal
KPI 4. Populations of targeted threatened fauna and flora remain at                                        12/7 or
current levels or have increased in targeted conservancies (5 species                                      1.7
specified)
    Black faced impala (baseline 2007)                                         150    190         203      2
    Elan (baseline 2007)                                                       7      275         461      2
    Black rhino (baseline 2007)                                                8      14          18       2
    Impala (baseline 2005)                                                     0      100         266      2
    Desert elephant (baseline 2005)                                            3      3           5        2
    Red lechwe (baseline 2005)                                                 21     135         121      1
    Mountain Zebra (baseline 2007)                                             23     30          2        0
KPI 5. Biological monitoring indicates that the integrity of the target sites remain secure with no        1
significant change in habitant
GEO Score                                                                                                  2.7/2 or
                                                                                                           135%
Total Score                                                                                                7.7/5 or
                                                                                                           (154%)
          
                                               




        2
          This scoring system was designed to rate objectively project outcomes. When an indicator reaches plus or
        minus 10% of its target value, it receives a score of 1. Less than 10% is zero and more than 10% is two.
        The scores are then added and divided by the number of indicators. This leads to an overall score which is
        then rated: less than 40% Unsatisfactory, 40-60% Moderately, Unsatisfactory; 60-80% Moderately
        Satisfactory; 80 to 120% Satisfactory; more than 120% Highly Satisfactory.


                                                            27
Intermediary Outcome                     Baseline        EOP           EOP        Vari-   Score:
                                         2005            Actual        Target     ance    <10% target
                                                                                          1 w/in 10%
                                                                                          target 2>
                                                                                          10% target

Component 1 – Ecosystem-based income generating activities
1   % of Community Funding             0       100                     90         10      2
    Facility resources are
    used/committed according to
    CFF manual criteria
2   # of conservancies that have built 0       16                      16         0       1
    sufficient capacity to plan,
    develop and implement
    ecosystem based income-
    generating activities with
    decreasing external support.

Total Component 1                                                                         3/2 or 150%

Component 2 – Sustainable ecosystem management
3   Community-based integrated       0         16                      12         4       2
    management plans (CBIEM) are               7 detailed 9            6
    in place                                   basic                   detailed
                                                                       6 basic
4    # conservancies with baseline       0               16            16         0       1
     data and TA expertise required to
     prepare, implement and monitor
     CBIEM plans are provided by
     MET and other stakeholders to
     the ICEMA target sites
5    % of (16) targeted conservancies    0               100           90         10      2
     under this component are
     implementing ecosystem
     management activities across
     identified thematic areas
6    % of (16) targeted conservancies                    87.5          80         7.5     1
     developed skills to implement
     local level monitoring and
     reporting.

Total Component 2                                                                         6/4 or 150%

Component 3 – Targeted institutional support
7   Environmental Management Act 0                       Enacted       Enacted            1
8   Parks and Wildlife Management 0                      Not Enacted   Enacted            0
    Bill
9   Access to Biological Resources     0                 Not Enacted   To be              0
    and Associated Traditional                                         enacted
    Knowledge Bill                                                     (2011)
10  # targeted conservancy             0                 16            12         4       2
    committees that have been
    strengthened
11  MET’s CBNRM knowledge              To be             Completed     Under              1



                                                    28
      management and replication   designed               impleme
      strategy                                            ntation
12    MET’s CBNRM M&E system       Elements         90%   Functio-         1
                                   for                    nal &
                                   CBNRM                  linked to
                                   M&E                    other
                                   system                 environ-
                                   available              mental
                                   & dev.                 informa-
                                   progress               tion
                                   under                  systems
                                   way

Total Component 3                                                          5/6 or 83%

Component 4 – Project management support
13   % of project activities         0              80    90          10   0
     identified in annual work plans
     has been satisfactorily
     completed
                                                                           0/1 or 0%
Total Component 4
                                                                           14/13 or
Overall Total                                                              107%




                                               29
Annex 2 (b): Assistance per Conservancy

                                     ICEMA's Contribution towards the Development of Targeted Conservancies

               Category            Sub-Projects                   Services                    Training                   Works                        Goods                Translocations

                               Community Counterpart       appointment and             JV contract training to   5,000 l water tank, stand   meat handling equipment     2008: 66 Kudu
                               Contribution (CCC) to       financing of Contracted     conservancy members       and PVC pipeline for
                               assist with building of a   Service Providers (CSP)                               office
                               lodge in the Etendeka
                               Concession
                               meat handling facility      High Value Plant Species    training in maintenance   ablution facility           tents, water cans, jerry    2010: 50 Eland
                               and evaporative cooler      (HVPS): long-term           for vehicles and                                      cans, axes for game
                                                           survey on Mopane fruit      buildings                                             guards
                                                           baseline data on water      financial training                                    outside, weather proof
                 1.Anabeb                                  infrastructure with                                                               information boards on
                                                           support from IRDNC                                                                NR and institutional
                                                                                                                                             issues
                                                           wildlife management         training of one
                                                           plans and zoning (with      professional hunting
 Conservancy




                                                           WWF, NNF)                   guide
                                                                                       training in hunting and
                                                                                       meat handling

                               meat handling facility      compilation of a water      training in maintenance   repair conservancy office   tents and torches for       2008: 66 Red Hartebeest
                               and evaporative cooler;     management plan;            for vehicles and          roof structure and staff    game guards
                               ICEMA project but funds     baseline data on water      buildings                 housing
                               leveraged from WWF          infrastructure
                               and NNF
                                                           feasibility study and       financial training        installation of mobile      cell phone signal booster   2009: 49 black-faced
                                                           business plan for rhino                               solar water pump for        and 3G internet access      Impala
                                                           tracking tourism                                      office
                2.Doro Nawas                               enterprise using
                                                           Granietkop as base
                                                           HVPS: ornamental plant      training in hunting and   rehabilitation of           outside, weather proof      2009: 119 Red
                                                           household nurseries trial   meat handling             Draaihoek Well (well        information boards on       Hartebeest
                                                                                                                 digging, recharge           NR and institutional
                                                                                                                 measurement, solar          issues
                                                                                                                 pump, tank, water point
                                                                                                                 for game)




                                                                                           30
                                                           wildlife management        disciplinary code            establishment of game        laptop computer, with         2009: 3 Black
                                                           plans and zoning (with     development                  outpost                      software, virus protection    Rhinoceros
                                                           WWF, NNF)                                                                            and back-up facilities
                                                                                      specialist training in       Granietkop campsite          shelving for storage
                                                                                      monitoring translocated      upgraded and engine for
                                                                                      game                         water pump repaired


                                                                                                                   Staff accommodation

                                                                                                                   nursery for ornamental
                                                                                                                   plants
                              CCC support towards the      appointment and            holistic rangeland           fencing of office and        cell phone signal booster     2005: 36 Eland
                              development of water         financing of CSP           management pilot project     hunting camp                 and 3G internet access
                              infrastructure for the                                  (implemented by              infrastructure and related
                              Hobatere Roadside                                       IRDNC)                       facilities
                              Concession
                              meat handling facility       compilation of a water     JV contract training to                                   tents, water cans, jerry      2007: 24 Black-faced
                              and evaporative cooler       management plan;           conservancy members                                       cans, axes for game           Impala; 50 Burchell's
                                                           baseline data on water                                                               guards                        Zebra
                                                           infrastructure with
                                                           support from IRDNC
                                                           HVPS: long-term survey     training in maintenance                                   outside, weather proof        2008: 18 Giraffe
              3.Ehirovipuka                                on Mopane fruit            for vehicles and building                                 information boards on
                                                                                                                                                NR and institutional
                                                                                                                                                issues
Conservancy




                                                           holistic rangeland         financial training                                        meat handling equipment
                                                           management pilot project
                                                           implemented by IRDNC
                                                                                      training in hunting and                                   upgrade solar system and
                                                                                      meat handling                                             provide mobile light
                                                           wildlife management        training of one hunting                                   cell phone signal booster
                                                           plans and zoning (with     guide                                                     (can handle Internet at a
                                                           WWF, NNF)                                                                            later stage)
                              CCC for the Khaudum          appointment and            Ximenia harvesting and       installation of a radio      tents, camping chairs,        2009: 198 Common
                              Concession tourism joint     financing of CSP           monitoring through the       communication network        water containers, axes,       Impala; 99 Kudu; 41
                              venture                                                 HVPS Programme of                                         rain suits, heavy duty        Eland; 43 Burchell's
                                                                                      FFEM                                                      basins, steel dinner plates   Zebra
                              bee keeping and honey        HVPS: study to develop     Integrated Fire
                4.George      production (pilot project)   potential of Ximenia       Management through the
                Mukoya                                     Caffra and Americana       HVPS Programme of
                                                                                      FFEM
                                                           HVPS: Kalahari Melon       training of local resource                                                              Translocation was done
                                                                                      monitors in plant-related                                                               jointly with Muduva
                                                                                      local level monitoring                                                                  Nyangana




                                                                                          31
                                                 HVPS: Devil's Claw          JV contract training to
                                                                             conservancy members
                                                 HVAS: monitoring of         training in maintenance
                                                 game with camera traps      of vehicles and buildings

                                                 sustainable harvesting of   financial training
                                                 Devil's Claw
                                                 specialist training in
                                                 monitoring translocated
                                                 game
                           evaporative cooler    appointment and             training in maintenance      construction of              tents and torches for     2006: 98 Hartmann's
                                                 financing of CSP            of vehicles and buildings    conservancy office           game guards               Zebras

                           firewood project      compilation of a water      financial training           fencing of office            meat handling equipment   2008: 44 Eland
                                                 management plan;                                         infrastructure and related
                                                 baseline data on water                                   facilities
                                                 infrastructure
                                                 feasibility study on the    training in hunting and      water point for game,        3G internet access        2009: 6 Black
                                                 harvesting and marketing    meat handling                equipped with solar                                    Rhinoceros
                                                 of firewood                                              pump
               5.Huab
                                                 HVPS: ornamental plant                                   upgrading of solar
                                                 household nurseries trial                                system
Conservancy




                                                 wildlife management                                      Welkom well
                                                 plans and zoning (with                                   rehabilitation and
                                                 WWF, NNF)                                                Bergville Pos repair and
                                                                                                          elephant safety
                                                                                                          nursery for ornamental
                                                                                                          plants
                           aquaculture project   appointment and             training of local resource
                                                 financing of CSP            monitors in plant-related
                                                                             local level monitoring
              6.Impalila                                                     training in maintenance
                                                                             of vehicles and buildings

                                                                             financial training

                           aquaculture project   appointment and             training of local resource
                                                 financing of CSP            monitors in plant-related
                                                                             local level monitoring
              7.Kasika                                                       training in maintenance
                                                                             of vehicles and buildings
                                                                             financial training




                                                                                 32
                              support for the              compilation of a water      training in maintenance      establishment of             5 donkey carts for game       2006: 2 Black
                              development of               management plan;            of vehicles and buildings    community game guard         guards                        Rhinoceros
                              concession rights in         baseline data on water                                   outpost
                              Hobatere North               infrastructure
                              evaporative cooler           HVPS: long-term survey      financial training           renovation of garages to     tents and torches for         2007: 64 Black-faced
                                                           on Mopane fruit                                          serve as conservancy         game guards                   Impala; 1 Black
                                                                                                                    offices                                                    Rhinoceros

                                                           HVPS: ornamental plant      training in hunting and      solar panels for             weather proof info            2008: 83 Eland, 16
                                                           household nurseries trial   meat handling                conservancy office           boards on NR and              Black-faced Impala
              8.Khoadi-Hôas                                                                                                                      institutional issues

                                                           HVAS: telemetry                                          solar powered water          meat handling equipment
                                                           equipment                                                installation at Klip River

                                                                                                                                                 office equipment

                                                                                                                                                 laptop computer, with         2009: 50 Black-faced
                                                                                                                                                 software, virus protection    Impala
                                                                                                                                                 and back-up facilities


                              contribution towards the     appointment and             training in maintenance                                   boots, water bottles, hats,   2008: 85 Oryx; 350
                              ≠Nudi Campsite               financing of CSP            of vehicles and buildings                                 torches, binoculars and       Springbok
                              development financed by                                                                                            tents for game guards
                              EU's RPRP
               9.Khob Naub    meat handling facility                                   financial training                                        meat saw
                              and evaporative cooler
                                                                                       training in hunting and
                                                                                       meat handling
Conservancy




                              CCC for the Khaudum          appointment and             training of local resource   installation of a radio      tents, camping chairs,        Translocation was done
                              Concession tourism joint     financing of CSP            monitors in plant-related    communication network        water containers, axes,       jointly with George
                              venture (infrastructure)                                 local level monitoring                                    rain suits, heavy duty        Mukoya (see above)
                                                                                                                                                 basins, steel dinner plates
                              bee keeping and honey        HVPS: study to develop      training in fire
                              production (pilot project)   potential of Ximenia        management
                10.Muduva                                  Caffra and Americana
                 Nyangana                                  HVPS: Devil's Claw and      training in maintenance
                                                           sustainable harvesting      of vehicles and buildings

                                                           HVPS: Kalahari Melon        financial training
                                                           HVAS: monitoring of         specialist training in
                                                           game with camera traps      monitoring translocated
                                                                                       game




                                                                                            33
                                renovation and upgrading    planning for developing    sustainable harvesting of    solar water pump for         laptop computer and          2007: 64 Blue
                                of Omatako Camp Site        wildlife water points at   the Devils Claw through      game water points            computer with software,      Wildebeest
                                                            Piering, Danger and        the HVPS Programme of                                     virus protection and
                                                            Forestry Station           FFEM                                                      back-up facilities
                                                            WIMSA: support to the      training of local resource                                office equipment             2010: 50 Blue
                                                            conservancy (San           monitors in plant-related                                                              Wildebeest
                                                            community) through the     local level monitoring
                                                            Indigenous Peoples
               11.Na Jaqna                                  Development
                                                            Programme (planned for
                                                            last quarter of Year 5)
                                                            HVAS: monitoring of        training in maintenance                                   office combo (tel, fax,      2010: 50 Eland
                                                            game with camera traps     of vehicles and buildings                                 printer, scanner)

                                                            certification of Devil's   financial training                                         tents and sleeping bags     2010: 30 Giraffe
                                                            Claw to increase value                                                               for game guards
                                Community Counterpart       appointment and            JV contract training to      fencing of office            meat handling equipment      2007: 6 Black
                                Contribution (CCC) to       financing of CSP           conservancy members          infrastructure and related                                Rhinoceros
                                assist with the revamping                                                           facilities
                                of the Etendeka
                                Concession
                                meat handling facility      compilation of a water     training in maintenance      installation of a solar                                   2008: 48 Kudu
                                and evaporative cooler      management plan            of vehicles and buildings    system

              12.Omatendeka                                                            training of one hunting
                                                                                       guide

                                                            wildlife management        financial training           5,000 l water tank and
Conservancy




                                                            plans and zonation (with                                stand
                                                            WWF, NNF)
                                                                                       training in hunting and
                                                                                       meat handling


                                CCC support for the         appointment and            training in craft making     assistance with office       tents, axes and water
                                development of a hunting    financing of CSP                                        construction considered      containers for game
                                camp                                                                                                             guards
                13.Sheya
                                                            tourism development        training in maintenance                                   laptop computer, with
               Shuushona                                    study                      of vehicles and buildings                                 software, virus protection
                                                                                                                                                 and back-up facilities
                                                                                       financial training
                                meat handling facility      appointment and            training in maintenance      conservancy office and       3G internet access           2006: 99 Hartmann's
              14.Sorri Sorris   and evaporative cooler      financing of CSP           of vehicles and buildings    ablution facilities                                       Zebra
                                                                                                                    (including septic tank)




                                                                                           34
                                                         compilation of a water      financial training           fencing of office            outside, weather proof       2008: 68 Red Hartebeest
                                                         management plan;                                         infrastructure and related   information boards on
                                                         baseline data on water                                   facilities                   NR and institutional
                                                         infrastructure                                                                        issues
                                                         HVPS: ornamental plant      training in hunting and      Goedgenoeg water point       laptop computer, with        2009: 98 Red Hartebeest
                                                         household nurseries trial   meat handling                (10,000 l tank, solar        software, virus protection
                                                                                                                  panels, etc.)                and back-up facilities
                                                         HVAS: aerial monitoring                                  installation of a solar      meat handling equipment
                                                         of released game                                         system for office
                                                         wildlife management                                      5,000 l water tank and       shelving for storage
                                                         plans and zoning (with                                   stand
                                                         WWF, NNF)
                                                                                                                  nursery for ornamental
                                                                                                                  plants
                                                         appointment and             training in craft making     assistance with office       laptop computer, with        2008: 52 Kudu; 58 Oryx;
                                                         financing of CSP                                         construction considered      software, virus protection   54 Hartmann's Zebra
                                                                                                                                               and back-up facilities
              15.Uukolonkadhi                            HVPS: long-term survey      training in maintenance                                   3G internet access           2009: 196 Oryx
                  Ruacana                                on Mopane fruit             of vehicles and buildings
                                                         tourism development         financial training                                                                     2010: 100 Burchell’s
                                                         study                                                                                                              Zebra
                                bee keeping, honey       appointment and             training of local resource   installation (Sobbe) and                                  2005: 26 Kudu;
                                production and honey     financing of CSP            monitors in plant-related    upgrading of radio                                        2006: 116 Blue
                                bee centre at Kongola                                local level monitoring       communication network                                     Wildebeest; 11 Giraffe
                                                                                                                  (other)
                                Mashi Craft Market and   planning for water          training in maintenance      HVAS: build new water                                     2007: 113 Eland; 26
Conservancy




                                Tourism Information      installations at 2 sites    of vehicles and buildings    infrastructure (with                                      Giraffe; 68 Common
               16.Mudumu
                                Hub                                                                               IRDNC/NNF)                                                Impala; 37 Sable
              North Complex
                 (Kwandu                                 HVPS: Kalahari Melon        financial training           conservancy signpost                                      2009: 42 Eland; 22
                  Mashi                                                                                                                                                     Giraffe
                 Mayuni)                                 HVPS: integrated fire                                    installation of a solar
                                                         management                                               system
                                                         HVPS: sustainable
                                                         Terminalia root bark
                                                         harvesting techniques
                                                         survey




                                                                                         35
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The project was a stand-alone GEF project with a GEF grant and counterpart funding from the
GRN. At the time the project was designed, neither financial nor economic analyses were
prepared. No standard cost-benefit or cost-effectiveness parameters were calculated; these would
be very difficult to calculate ex-post. However, a comprehensive analysis of the economic
benefits of investment in conservancies is available in NACSO (2010). All 16 conservancies
supported by ICEMA are included in their analysis as well as other conservancies not supported
by ICEMA. The analysis is useful to illustrate the value of investing in conservancies. The
following summary is provided.

The formation of communal conservancies is unlocking massive income/benefit generation
opportunities, and in the process, providing legal focal institutions through which private sector
partners are contracted for lucrative trophy hunting and joint venture lodge tourism opportunities.
At the closure of 2010, a total of 24 joint venture lodges and 36 trophy hunting concessions were
operating in communal conservancies. These high paying ventures are complemented by a range
of smaller enterprises, including community campsites, community guide services, handicraft
production, sell of natural plant products, community forest enterprises, and various forms of
sustainable wildlife use (i.e., premium hunting, shoot-and-sale, and own-use of game). Over the
past 15 years the CBNRM program has generated impressive annual escalations of incomes and
benefits to conservancies and CBNRM stakeholders (Figure 1), growing from no benefits in 1994
to N$ 42,481,015 during 2009 (NACSO, 2010). A breakdown of these funds (Table 1) shows
N$ 35,021,859 directly flowed to conservancies and their members, while N$ 7,459,156 went to
community benefactors not affiliated with conservancies (community forests, communities at
large in communal areas supported by the CBNRM program and enterprises in conservancies
which have no affiliation with the host conservancy). A direct benefit of the increased numbers
of enterprises in these remote locations is the growing employment opportunities for local
community members. At the end of 2009, a total of 1,366 full-time and approximately 9,000
part-time jobs were attributed to CBNRM enterprises or the collective incomes returned to
conservancies through these enterprises.

Livelihoods of conservancy members are receiving boosts through a number of means. The meat
from trophy hunted game and animals harvested for own-use is substantial. During 2009, more
than 330,000 kg of meat, valued at N$ 4,944,075 were distributed to residents of conservancies.




                                                36
   Figure 1. Income and benefits generated by the CBNRM Programme to conservancies and CBNRM
   benefactors outside of conservancies from 1994-2009 (Source: NACSO, 2010).




Similarly, each job created provides valuable livelihood benefits to direct family members (i.e.,
an average of 5-6 people) and indirect benefits to extended family members (sometimes up to 10-
12 people or more).

Table 1. Source and Value of Benefits Generated By Communal Conservancies in 2009
     SOURCE OF INCOME                     VALUE IN N$                 PERCENT OF BENEFITS
 Conservancy Income & Benefits
 Joint Venture Tourism                         19,979,916                           57.0
 Trophy Hunting Concessions                     5,724,911                           16.3
 Own-Use-Game                                   3,153,750                            9.0
 Game Meat Distribution                         1,790,325                            5.1
 Shoot-And-Sell                                 1,367,986                            3.9
 Crafts Production                              1,233,047                            3.5
 Campsites / Community-Based
 Tourism Enterprises                                915,827                          2.6
 Natural Plant Products                             587,081                          1.7
 Live Game Sales                                    263,760                          0.8
 Premium Hunting                                      5,256                          0.0
 Total Conservancies:                          35,021,859                          100.0




                                               37
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
         Names                           Title                   Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Christophe Crepin         Senior Environmental Specialist       EASER    Task Manager
Chris James Warner        Environmental Specialist              ENVCF
Gabriele Rechbauer        Consultant                            AFTEN
Nina Doetinchem           Biodiversity Specialist               AFTEN
Slaheddine Ben-Halima     Senior Procurement Specialist         AFTPC
Steve Gaginis             Senior Disbursement Specialist        CTRDM
Iraj Talai                Senior Financial Management           AFTFM
Aberra Zerrabruk          Legal Counsel                         LEGAF
Jack Ruitenbeek           Consultant                            AFTEN
John MacGann              Consultant                            AFTEN
Francois Odendall         Consultant                            AFTEN
Lucie Tran                Operations Analyst                    AFTEN
Dan Aronson               Social Safeguards                     ASPEN
Arne Dalfelt              Environmental Safeguards              ASPEN
Beula Selvadurai          Program Assistant                     AFTEN
John A. Boyle             Environmental Safeguards              ASPEN
Reiner Woytek             Indigenous Knowledge                  ASPEN
Harri Seppanen            Consultant                            ASPEN
Jonathan Nyamukapa        Financial Management Specialist       CTRDM
Pauline McPherson         Resource Management Officer           AFTEN
Hisham A. Abdo Kahin      Legal Advisor                         LEGAF
Kirk Hamilton             Lead Environmental Economist           ENV
William Sutton            Agricultural Economist                 ARD
Supervision/ICR
Christophe Crepin         Senior Environmental Specialist       EASER    Task Manager
Hisham A. Abdo Kahin      Senior Counsel                        LEGES
Sushenjit Bandyopadhyay   Consultant                             DECPI
Mohamed Arbi Ben-Achour   Consultant                            AFTUW
Slaheddine Ben-Halima     Consultant                            MNAPR
John A. Boyle             Consultant                            AFTWR
Antonio L. Chamuco        Senior Procurement Specialist         AFTPC
Karsten Feuerriegel       E T Consultant                        AFTEN
Steve J. Gaginis          Senior Finance Officer                CTRDM
Simon Ochieng Lang'o      Finance Officer                       CTRDM
Melanie Eltz McIntosh     Consultant                              ENV
Rajat Narula              Sr. Financial Management Specialist   EAPFM
Tandile Gugu Ngetu        E T Consultant                        AFTFM



                                          38
Jonathan Nyamukapa             Sr. Financial Management Specialist AFTFM
Sophia Elizabetha Frederi
                               Program Assistant                     AFCS1
Odendaal
Africa Eshogba Olojoba         Sr. Environmental Specialist          AFTEN
Jonathan David Pavluk          Sr. Counsel                           LEGAF
Jean-Michel G. Pavy            Sr. Environmental Specialist          AFTEN
Ayala Peled Ben Ari            Consultant                            MNSEN
Gabriele Rechbauer             Consultant                            AFTEN
Herman Jack Ruitenbeek         Consultant                            SASDI
Beula Selvadurai               Program Assistant                     AFTEN
Pascal Tegwa                   Senior Procurement Specialist         AFTPC
Joao Tinga                     Financial Management Analyst          AFTFM
Patrick Piker Umah Tete        Sr. Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM
Jorge E. Uquillas Rodas        Consultant                            OPCQC
Aberra Zerabruk                Consultant                            LEGAF


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                                     US$ (including travel and
                                          No. of staff weeks
                                                                     consultant costs)
Lending
2001                                                       3.1                    33,247
2002                                                      8.47                    71,587
2003                                                      1.86                    46,848
2004                                                     16.71                    88,915
                     Total (LEN):                        30.14                   240,597
Supervision/ICR
2005                                                     26.96                    97,915
2006                                                     20.35                    69,673
2007                                                     17.87                    59,453
2008                                                      8.39                    70,124
2009                                                     10.03                    73,468
2010                                                      8.25                    28,876
2011                                                     11.26                    52,990
2012                                                      3.88                    34,840
                     Total (SPN):                       106.99                   487,339
                  GRAND TOTAL                           137.13                   727,936




                                               39
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


(N/A)




                                      40
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


(N/A)




                                    41
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Borrower’s comments on the draft ICR are presented below as sent to the Bank.

Project objectives:

The project had two key objectives, one a development objective and the other a global
environmental objective.

The ICEMA Project Development Objective (PDO) stated that community-based integrated
ecosystem management practices are supported by the National CBNRM framework and used by
targeted conservancies. Its Global Environment Objective (GEO) was to restore, secure and
enhance key ecosystem processes in targeted conservancies with biodiversity and land
conservation and sustainable use as a goal.

All the above two objectives have been satisfactorily achieved with key performance indicators in
many instances exceedingly achieved.

The project focused its support to 16 selected conservancies, ranging from providing capacity
building and technical and infrastructural/facilities development. The project has four
components: Ecosystem-based Income-Generating Activities, Sustainable Ecosystem
Management, Targeted Institutional Support, and Project Management Support.

Factors that affected implementation

The project has experienced smooth staffing of the project office with experienced personnel.
Even though there has been some staff turn-over, it did not really impact negatively the
performance of the project. The support of the implementing Ministry, MET, has been
outstanding in ensuring that all necessary required wares and assistance are in place. The project
was advised by a functional steering committee, which also approved the annual work plans. The
monitoring and evaluation would have been on board from day one; this would have improved
this aspect of the project. But upon recommendation of the MTR an evaluation specialist was
hired.

The Government has honored its co-financing contribution albeit delays sometimes due to
government system of budgeting. This matter has been raised during supervision missions, and
has been accordingly attended. At the end of the project, the GRN has all its co-financing
contribution complied with.

With respect to component 1: ecosystem based income generation activity – there was some
delays due to the establishment of procedures and some outstanding policies like the Concession
Policy which needed to be in place before major activities were carried out. Further, some
legislation like the Environmental Management Act, became in place only in 2007, the Parks and
Wildlife Management Bill still awaiting approval by the MET. This delayed some activities
especially in view the ecosystem approach at landscape level. However, the environment
Management Act was approved in 2007.

A positive aspect of implementation was the high level of cooperation and partnership, building
on and further strengthening a long history of inter-agency collaboration to promote natural
resources management in the community conservancies of Namibia.



                                               42
Overall outcome
The ICEMA project has achieved its objectives. The ICEMA project increased the number of
conservancies that used the IEM approach. At the end of the project, the total area covered by the
16 conservancies that had adopted the IEM approach was 38,595 km². The target value at
appraisal was that 25,000 km2, which means that this indicator was over achieved (129%). The
project laid a strong foundation for integrated ecosystem approach. It also supported a broad
rural development with focus on income generating activities, value-additions to natural resources
and empowerment of local communities in matter related to management of their natural
resources. Facilities established under ICEMA project have now become established nodes for
community consultations and vehicles for rural development initiative diffusions. In particular
the capacity for conservancies has been built, governance structures, administration, monitoring
skills, translocation of wildlife to conservancies and office facilities are now in place.

Even though, the overall ratings for the project is moderately satisfactory, the GRN believes that
ICEMA achieved most of its objectives and only component one that deals with targeted
community investments through community funding facility, of which most of the activities, the
conditions was beyond the project realms. We would nevertheless, like to see the overall rating
of satisfactory, given that most key performance indicators have been exceedingly achieved.

The Government of the Republic of Namibia (GRN) is very much appreciative of the financial
support from the GEF and a good technical support provided by the WB team assigned to this
project as the Implementing Agency. The GRN is grateful for the competent Project Coordinator,
Mr. Jo Tagg and his team who really steered the implementation of this first WB GEF funded
project in Namibia.




                                               43
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

(Not received)




                                    44
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Diez, L. 2007. Review of Key Components of the Integrated Community-Based Ecosystem
Management Project (ICEMA). ICEMA Report.

Barnes, J.I. 2008. Community-based Tourism and Natural Resources Management in Namibia:
Local and National Economic Impacts. Chapter 16. In: Responsible Tourism – Critical Issues for
Conservation and Development, edited by Anna Spenceley. Earth Scan. London.

Boudreaux, K and Nelson, F. 2011 Community Conservation in Namibia: Empowering the
Poor with Property Rights. Economic Affairs, Institute of Economic Affairs. Published by
Blackwell Publishing, Oxford

MET. 2010. Streamlining the Monitoring and Evaluation Systems ICEMA and the CBNRM
Programme of MET. ICEMA Report.

MET. 2011. The National CBNRM Sustainability Task Force: The Namibia National CBNRM
Program Sustainability Strategy. MET, Windhoek.

NACSO, 2008. Namibia's communal conservancies: a review of progress and challenges in
2007. NACSO, Windhoek

NACSO. 2010. Namibia’s communal conservancies – a review of progress and challenges in
2009. NACSO, Windhoek.

USAID, 2008. USAID Support to the Community-Based Natural Resource Management
Program in Namibia: LIFE Program Review.

WIMSA. 2011. Indigenous Peoples

World Bank. 2004. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Grant from the Global
Environmental Facility Trust Fund in the Amount of US$7.1 Million to the Republic of Namibia
for the Integrated Community-based Ecosystem Management project. The World Bank.
Washington.

Aide Memoires, ISRs and Midterm Review Report, M&E and CFF Manual.




                                              45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 38968


                                                                                                                              NAMIBIA
                                        INTEGRATED COMMUNITY-BASED ECOSYSTEM MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                                                                                            CONSERVANCIES SUPPORTED
                                                                                            BY THE PROJECT                                                 REGION CAPITALS
                                                                                            REGISTERED CONSERVANCIES                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                            STATE PROTECTED AREAS                                          TRUNK ROADS
                                                                                            CONCESSIONS                                                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                            COMMUNITY FORESTS
                                                                                                                                           Source: Ministry of Environment & Tourism of Namibia.



                                                                                                                                                        20° E




                                                                                         A N G O L A                                                                                                            ZAMBIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                Katima
                         11 60                 47        32                   Uutapi      Oshikango              57                                                                                              Mulilo
                                                                                                                                                           31                                                                     56        44
                                                                            Oshakati                                                                                                                     8
                           20                                     19                                                                       Rundu                                                         9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    49 64     2        43
                                        Opuwo                                                                                                                                37                         16
                                2753                                                                                                                                              34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ZIMBABWE
                                                                                                                                                                           41                                         59
                                                                            35               40                                                                                                            45
                                          54 21
                                   10        28 62
                                         26      17 13
                                              25                                                                      Tsumeb
                                                                                                                                                      29
                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                              3
20° S                                                                                                                               38                                                                                                                     20° S
                                                                  22                50                                                                          46
                                                                                                                                   42
                                                          7        6          65                  Otjiwarongo
                                                     6                                                            33          39
                                                                       15                                                                                            55
                                                                            18 48

                                                                   12                                                                                                 63
                                                                                                                                                                                                     BOTSWANA
                                                                                                                                                                 61
                                                                             30
                                                                                                      51


                                        Swakopmund                                                                                       Gobabis
                                                                                                            WINDHOEK

                                                                                                                                                                                              REGISTERED CONSERVANCIES
                     A T L A NT I C                                                                                                                                                                  Date                                           Date
                                                                                                                                                                     Name                          Registered       Name                          Registered
                                                                                                                                                                      1   Nyae Nyae                1998 Feb.        34   Shamungwa                 2005 Sep.
                         O CE A N                                                                                                                                     2   Salambala                1998 Jun.        35   Sheya Shuushona           2005 Sep.
                                                                                                                       Mariental                                      3   Khoadi/Hoas              1998 Jun.        36   Gawachab                  2005 Sep.
                                                                                                                                                                      4   Torra                    1998 Jun.        37   Muduva Nyangana           2005 Sep.
                                                                                                       58                                                             5   Wuparo                   1999 Dec.        38   Otjituuo                  2005 Sep.
                                                                                                                             14                                       6   Doronawas                1999 Dec.        39   African Wild Dog          2005 Sep.
                                                                                                                                                                      7   Uibasen Twyfelfontein    1999 Dec.        40   King Nehale               2005 Sep.
                     ATLANTIC                                                                                                                                         8   Kwandu                   1999 Dec.        41   George Mukoya             2005 Sep.
                                                                                                                                                                      9   Mayuni                   1999 Dec.        42   Okamatipati               2005 Sep.
                                                                                                                       23                                            10   Puros                    2000 May         43   Kasika                    2005 Dec.
                         OCEAN
                                                                                                                                                                     11   Marienfluss              2001 Jan.        44   Impalila                  2005 Dec.
                                                                                                                                                                     12   Tsiseb                   2001 Jan.        45   Balyerwa                  2006 Oct.
                                                                                                       52               Keetmanshoop                                 13   Ehirovipuka              2001 Jan.        46   Ondjou                    2006 Oct.
                                                                                                                                                                     14   Oskop                    2001 Feb.        47   Kunene River              2006 Oct.
                                                                                                                                                                     15   Sorris Sorris            2001 Oct.        48   Ohungu                    2006 Oct.
                                                                                                            36                                                       16   Mashi                    2003 Mar.        49   Sobbe                     2006 Oct.
                                                                                                                                                                     17   Omatendeka               2003 Mar.        50   Audi                      2006 Oct.
                                                                                                                                                                     18   Otjimboyo                2003 Mar.        51   Ovitoto                   2008 May
                                                                                                                                                                     19   Uukwaluudhi              2003 Mar.        52   Han/Awab                  2008 May
                                                                                                                                                                     20   Orupembe                  2003 Jul.       53   Okondjombo                2008 Aug.
                                                                                                                        24                                           21   Okangundumba              2003 Jul.       54   Otjambangu                2009 Mar.
                                                                                                                                                                     22   Huab                     2003 Jul.        55   Eiseb                     2009 Mar.
                                                                                                                                                                     23   Khob Naub                2003 Jul.        56   Sikunga                    2009 Jul.
                                                                                                                                                                     24   Gamaseb                   2003 Jul.       57   Okongo                    2009 Aug.
                                                                                                                                                                     25   Anabeb                   2003 Jul.        58   Huibes                    2009 Oct.
                                                                                                                                                                     26   Sesfontein                2003 Jul.       59   Dzoti                     2009 Oct.
                                                                                                                                                                     27   Sanitatas                 2003 Jul.       60   Otjitanda                 2011 Mar.
                                                                                                                                                                     28   Ozondundu                 2003 Jul.       61   Otjombinde                2011 Mar.
        This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                 SOUTH                                               29
                                                                                                                                                                     30
                                                                                                                                                                          N’a-Jaqna
                                                                                                                                                                          Gaingu
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2003 Jul.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2004 Mar.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    62
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    63
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Orupupa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Omuramba ua Mbinda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2011 Mar.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2011 Mar.
30° S   shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
        Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                         AFRICA                               30° S          31
                                                                                                                                                                     32
                                                                                                                                                                          Joseph Mbambangandu
                                                                                                                                                                          Uukolonkhadi-Ruacana
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2004 Mar.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2005 Sep.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    64
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    65
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bamunu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Khoro Goreb
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2011 Mar.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2011 Sep.
        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                              20° E                  33   Ozonahi                  2005 Sep.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NOVEMBER 2011
