Report No. PIC573
Project Name              Burkina Faso-Economic Recovery Credit (ERC)
Region                    Africa
Sector                    Non-sectoral
Project ID                BFPA35593
Borrower                  Government of Burkina Faso
Implementing Agency       Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning
Ouagadougou
Burkina Faso
Contact: Mr. Joseph Bissiri Sirima
Executive Secretary, SAP
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning
Date Prepared             March 10, 1994
Appraisal Date            February, 1994
Board Date                March 29, 1994
Credit Objectives
The ERC seeks to assist the Government of Burkina Faso deepen its
adjustment strategy, to ensure that gains in competitiveness are
consolidated, the adverse effects of the devaluation on vulnerable
groups are minimized, and a Priority Action Plan in Primary Education
and Health is implemented to accelerate human resource development and
alleviate poverty.
Credit Description
The African members of the Franc zone decided to devalue their
currency, the CFA franc, effective January 12, 1994. The proposed
credit would support the post-devaluation reform program for 1994 as
outlined in the Government's Statement of Economic and Social
Development Policies dated March 7, 1994, whose main objectives are
private sector led growth and the alleviation of poverty. The
Burkinabj Government has already taken a series of key macroeconomic
and structural measures including: (i) the devaluation of the CFA
franc from 50 CFAF to 100 CFAF/1FF; (ii) an increase in the producer
price of prime quality cotton by 40w; (iii) a program of social
measures to mitigate the effects of the devaluation on vulnerable
groups; (iv) prudent demand management policies to reduce public
sector absorption and limit public wage increases; (v) increase in
social sector expenditures in real terms; (vi) recruitment of 300
additional teachers to open closed classrooms; and (vii) establishment
of a price list of essential generic drugs. In addition, the ERC
supports priority actions in primary education and health, including
implementation of training for wider use of essential generic drugs
and cost recovery in health centers (with the assistance of UNICEF) as
well as recruitment of 1,100 additional primary school teachers at the
start of the 1994/1995 school year.



Implementation arrangements (Procurement and disbursement)
The proposed credit amount is SDR18.0 million (US$ million
equivalent). Due to the urgent nature of the operation the entire
credit is proposed for disbursement in a single tranche shortly after
effectiveness.   Proceeds of the credit would reimburse 1009 of the
foreign exchange costs of eligible imports, of public or private
sector origin, except for negative list and imported goods already
funded under bilateral or multilateral credits. The proposed date of
eligibility would be set in light of the Government's preparation of a
deepened austerity program in August 1993. In order to permit timely
disbursements in the amounts needed to keep to program targets, the
full amount of the credit would be eligible for retroactive financing.
August 2, 1993, is proposed as the cut-off date for retroactive
financing.
Environmental Category
The Project would be consistent with IDA policy and would follow
acceptable IDA procedures. In conformity with IDA policies for
adjustment operations, no environmental rating has been assigned. The
reduction of tariff rates of fertilizer imports is expected to have a
positive effect on the quality of soil resources, and the reduction of
taxation of kerosene should contribute to slowing of the rate of
deforestation.
Contact Point: Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information based on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 2 -



