Documcnut of
The World Bank
FOR OFFIClAL USI ONLY
Report No. P-6296-BUR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
O(N A PROPOSED
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
OF SDR 18.0 MILLION
TO
BLURKINA FASO
MARCH 10, 1994
MI CROGRAPHI CS
Report No: P-    6296 BUR
Type: PR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bY recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents mav not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                =          CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                      =          CFAF 592 (January 31, 1994)
CFAF 1 million               =          US$ 1,687 (January 31, 1994)
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURE: METRIC
Metric                                  U.S. Equiv
I metr (m)                  =           3.28 fet (ft)
1 kilometer (man)           =           0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kldometer (lan2)   =           0.39 square mile (sq mi)
I hectare (ha)              =           2.47 acres (a)
I metric ton (t)            =           2,205 pounds (b)
1 kilogram  g)              =           2.2046 pounds (Ib)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OmCAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEAO             Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BFW1              Banque pour le Financement du Commerce et de lindustrie
BIB               Banque Internationale du Burkina
BND-B             Banque Nationale de Developpement du Burkina
BICIA             Banque Internationale pour le Commerce, l'lndustrie et l'Agriculture
BRCB              Bureau de Recouvrement des Creances du Burkina
CAMEG             Centrale d'Achat des Medicaments Essentiels et Gen6riques
CARFO             Caisse Autonome de Retraite des Fonctionnaires
CGP               Caisse Generale de Perequation
CNCA              Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
CSPA              Caisse de Stabilisation des Prix des Produits Agricoles
MEG               Medicaments Essentiels et Gen6riques
OFNACER           Office National des Cer6ales
ONATEL            Office National des Telecommunications
ONEA              Office National de l'Eau et de l'Assainissement
ONP               Office National des Postes
P1D:  Public Institutional Development Project
PIP               Public Investment Program
PNGT              Programme Nationale de Gestion des Terroirs
SCFB              Societe des Chemins de Fer du Burkina
SMIG              Salaire Minimum Interprofessionnel Garanti
SND               Service National de Developpement
SOFITEX           Societe des Fibres Textiles
SONABEL           Societe Nationale Burkinabe d'Electricite
SONACOR           Societe Nationale de Collecte du Riz
SONABHY           Societe Nationale Burkinabe des Hydrocarbures
TCI               Taxe Conjoncturelle i l'Importation
TDP               Taxe Degressive de Protection
TUPP              Taxe Unique sur les Produits Ptroliers
UREBA             Union Revolutionnaire de Banques
VAT               Value-Added Tax
WAMU              West African Monetary Union
WAEMU             West African Economic and Monetary Union
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oficial duties. 5ts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



BURKI-NA FASO
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT (ERC)
Table of Contents
Credit and Program  Summary                                                         i
PART I. THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL
PROGRAM .......................................                          I
A. Recent Economic Developments and Reform Status ..........1. .......
B. Government Economic Policies for 1994-96 .................................5
C. The 1994 Economic Recovery Program .....................................6
Public Finance ....................................6
Monetary Policy .....................................9
Pricing and Wages Policy .....................................9
Structural Policies .............................................  10
Priority Action Plan for Primary Education and Health .........  11
D. Financing Requirements             ...................................... 13
PART II. IDA'S STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS IN  1994 ..................... 14
A. Country Strategy and Priorities .............................................     14
B. Follow-up Operations to the ERC in 1994 .................................. 15
PART III. THE PROPOSED ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT ............ 16
A. Financing and Management of the Program .             ................................ 16
B. Procurement and Disbursement             ................................. 16
C. Environmental Aspects .         ............................................. 17
D. Project Implementation            ....................................... 17
E. Benefits and Risks ............................................. 19
PART IV. RECOMMENDATION ................... .......................... 19
ANNEXES
Annex I         Main Economic Indicators
Annex II        Status of Bank Group Operations
Annex III       Timetable of Key Processing Events
Annex IV        Government's Statement of Economic and Social
Development Policies
Annex V         Matrix of ERC Actions for 1994



- i -
BURKINA FASO
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT (ERCI
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower:           Burkina Faso
Amounts:            IDA Credit: SDR 18.0 million (US$25 million equivalent)
Terms:              IDA Credit: Standard with 40-year maturity
Program
Description:        The African member countries of the Franc zone decided to devalue
their currency, the CFA franc, effective January 12, 1994. The
proposed credit would support the post-devaluation reform program as
outlined in the Government's Statement of Economic and Social Policy
whose main objectives are private sector led growth and the alleviation
of poverty. Thle Government's program has also obtained the support
of a second year arrangement under the IMF's Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Facility (ESAF). By shoring up support for measures
taken in the aftermath of the devaluation, the proposed operation is a
crucial element in helping the Government deepen its adjustment
strategy. Since 1991, adjustment in Burkina Faso has been supported
by a Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL I) as well as a first year
arrangement under the IMF's SAF and a first year arrangement under
the IMF's ESAF. Implementation of SAL I has been satisfactory
overall, and two tranches have been disbursed.
The Government of Burkina Faso has already taken a series of key
macroeconomic and structural measures to regain and consolidate
competitiveness. The ERC is designed to support the implementation
of these measures in 1994. The major measures are: (i) the
devaluation of the CFA Franc from 50 to 100 CFAF/1 FP; (ii)
increase in the producer price of prime quality cotton by 40%; (iii) a
program of measures to attenuate the negative social effects of the
devaluation; (iv) prudent demand management policies to reduce
absorption by the public sector and limit wage increases; and (v)
implementation of key measures to increase the coverage and quality
of primary education and health services in the context of a priority
Action Plan for 1994.
Estimated
Disbursements:      Due to the urgent nature of the operation, the entire US$25 million
would be disbursed in a single tranche shortly after effectiveness.
There is no se.parate staff appraisal report.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDAI'ION
OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
TO BURKINA FASO
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed Economic
Recovery Credit of SDR 18.0 million (US$25 million equivalent) to Burkina Faso. The credit is to help
support the Government's reform efforts following the devaluation of the CFA franc on January 12,
1994. The Credit would be on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years.
2.    A third Policy Framework Paper, 1994-96, is being distributed to the Board for information in
March 1994. A corresponding second-year ESAF arrangement for the equivalent of US$24.8 million is
scheduled for consideration by the IMF Board on March 28, 1994. A Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
is under preparation and will be presented to the Board with the planned Population and AIDS project
planned for Board presentation in May 1994. The last Board discussion of the Burkina CAS took place
on February 4, 1992.
PART I. THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL PROGRAM
A. Recent Economic Developments and Reform Status
3.    Since 1991 the Government of Burkina has imrlemented a wide range of economic and sectoral
policy reforms under its structural adjustment program. A key objective of the reform program has been
to improve the competitiveness of the economy, and lay the foundation for the sustained longer term
growth needed to help raise standards of living and alleviate poverty. To this end, the policy agenda has
emphasized: (i) restoring macroeconomic equilibria through greater fiscal and monetary discipline; (ii)
improving efficiency in public sector resource allocation and use through containment of the public sector
wage bill, and restructuring of expenditures in favor of the priority sectors of health and primary
education, and operations and maintenance spending; and (iii) improving incentives for private sector
development through trade, tax and regulatory reform, privatization of the public enterprises, banking
sector restructuring and privatization, and the liberalization of domestic trade and prices. Major sectoral
reforms have been launched in the transport and agriculture sectors. Good progress in implementing
these reforms has allowed IDA to approve two sector adjustment credits in :992. In parallel to the
reform program, the Goveiurnent has sought to strengthen institutional capacity, especially in public
expenditure management.
4.    Performance in maintaining a macroeconomic framework consistent with the objectives of the
Program, as specified in h.e first and second Policy Framework Papers, 1P99-93 and 1993-95,
respectively, has been satisfactory but uneven. Because of Burkina's membership in the West Africa
Monetary Union, the program placed a particular emphasis on internal adjustment to achieve a
depreciation of the real exchange rate and, in particular, on containment of the budget deficit. During



2
the first year, 1991, the Government successfully met all targets set for fiscal revenues and expenditures,
and the overall fiscal deficit, excluding grants and exceptional expenditure, declined to 4.6% of GDP,
from 7.5% in 1990. Notably, the nominal wage bill was reduced through a combination of early
retirements, reduction in housing benefits, and foregoing of staff promotions with their attendant costs.
Revenue performance improved through rigorous enforcement of tax collection, and revenues reached
14% of GDP, exceeding the target under the program.
5.    In early 1992, however, Government's attention shifted to an increasingly charged agenda of a
far-reaching political reform, with multiparty parliamentary elections in May. A budget for 1992 was
adopted only in June following the elections and the establishment of a new government. Meanwhile,
because of lagging revenues, which fell to 12.3% of GDP, the overall fiscal deficit, excluding grants and
exceptional expenditure, widened to 7.2% of GDP, reversing most of the gain made by successful
adjustment in 1991. The program adopted for 1993 and reflected in the 1993 budget included a series
of structural measures aimed at containing the fiscal deficit in the medium-term. To that end, the salary
scale was reduced by 10% as of January 1 in order to bring actual salary payments (which had been
frozen and therefore did not reflect the effect of staff advancement into higher grades) in line with civil
service regulations. A value-added tax was introduced, to replace turnover taxes and a new import tariff
structure was adopted, providing for a simplified schedule and a reduced number of rate categories. The
Government also courageously reduced the total allocation for university students' stipends by 27%.
Adequate provisions were made in the budget to carry out the priority road maintenance program and to
support the restructuring of the banking and cotton sectors.
6.    While the Government successfully contained growth of the wage bill, fully in line with the
agreed targets, by mid-1993 a serious revenue shortfall was evident. The principal reason was the
irability of a weak tax administration to implement effectively the tax reforms, especially the new import
tariff regime. The volume of imports passing through customs appears to have declined, both because
of civil unrest in Togo, an important supply route for Burkina, and because of an increase of fraud. In
addition, because of the crisis in the cotton sector, special import duty exemptions were granted for
agricultural inputs. The Government also failed to take several revenue-enhancing measures foreseen to
be put in place in early 1993 under the program, including variable import levies on rice and sugar and
a temporary tariff surcharge to substitute for removed quantitative import restrictions. These measures
were put in place in October 1993, after a detailed review of macroeconomic performance with Bank and
IMF staff. The Government also transferred to the Treasury some parafiscal funds held by state
enterprises to help compensate for the revenue shortfall. Because these measures were in place only
during the last quarter c 1993, however, total revenues in 1993, estimated at CFAF 101 billion, were
well below those projected for the 1993 program. Because of delays in implementation of reforms, there
was also a shortfall in disbursements of aid in support of the adj-istmert program, including the second
ttaiwhe of SAL X wiiih was iially ulecased in Fubruary 1994. Aldiough much of the expenditure linked
to restructuring of the banking sector was delayed to 1994, this was not enough to compensate for the
combined shortfall in revenue and in budgetary support, so, as a result, government payments arrears to
domestic suppiiers as well as to external creditors increased, by an estimated CFAF 8.4 billion, during
1993.
7.    While the overall fiscal situation became increasingly tenuous during 1992 and 1993, the
Government sought to implement sit ambitious reform agenda in public expenditure management and in
improving incentives to private sector investment and employment growth.



3
8.     Public expenditure management. A containment of the civil service wage bill growth was
achieved during the past three years, with the civil service wage bill declining gradually, as a proportion
of current expenditure, from 61% in 1990, to 58% in 1991, 56% in 1992, and an estimated 50% in
1993.1 Higher education stipends growth was also arrested. These are commendable accomplishments,
especially in a period of transition toward a more open and democratic regime. Implementation of
systemic changes in the way expenditures are programmed and monitored has been much slower than
anticipated, however, and the quality and timeliness of expenditure and revenue data have remained
unsatisfactory. A re-organization of the Ministry of Finance and Planning which was a pre-requisite for
the reforms in expenditure programming and control, was delayed by the political transition and
ministerial changes. A Public Institutional Development project, supported by IDA under Cr. 2378-BUR
approved by the Board in June 1992, has been launched to further the reforms in this area.
9.     Since 1991, expenditures have been restructured to provide for a real increase in resources
allocated to primary education, health, and infrastructure maintenance. In particular, 950 new primary
school teachers were hired each year. There was little progress, however, withl the preparation of
'program budgets' in the primary education and health sectors, largely because of the weaknesses of the
sectoral ministries and the difficulty of integrating development expenditure financed under projects. The
ministries of health and primary education, which employ 40% of all civil service staff, were the first
for which personnel files were reconciled with payroll files, generating for the first time information
about the availability of different categories of personnel.
10.   A public investment program was prepared by the Govermnent each year, following agreed
criteria for project selection. With the exception of the paving of the Bobo-Orodara road, for which
discussions on design standards and phasing have taken more than two years before being satisfactorily
resolved, the program has remained free of large, low-return projects. Starting in 1992, the investment
program was presented as part of the capital budget of the Government. The quality of the program in
terms of coverage has improved continually. Monitoring of actual expenditures remains weak, however,
largely because about 90% of the program is financed by donors and oversight over expenditures is
dispersed. In addition, systematic identification of current expendituta that is financed under projects has
only begin in 1993 in several ministries so the full integration of investment and current expenditure
programming is not yet achieved; important steps have beeti taken in that direction, however. In parallel
to preparation of the public investment program, the Government has started to establish a data bank, and
sliding three-year programs, covering technical assistance, which accounts for as much as one third of
external aid disbursements.
11.   Private Sector Incentives Reforms. The Government has implemented a wide range of reforms
in support of private sector development. Starting with a highly controlled economy with numerous
public enterprises, state interference in banking decisions, a rigid labor code, quantitative import
restrictions covering virtually all goods, an outdated investment code, and a proliferation of exonerations,
the achievements of the program during the past three years are significant. Overall, these reforms have
dramatically expanded the role of market forces in the economy and have encouraged private sector
investment which is estimated to have grown by an average of 8% p.a. in real terms since 1991.
' In addition, some wage bill expenditure has been reclassified as Transfers (to reflect the financial autonomy
granted to some entities) or as Materials (food and clothing for the Ministry of Defense personnel). Using the new
classification, the wage bill is estimated to be only 44% of current expenditure in 1993.



4
12.   Early on, the Government adopted modifications to the company law to induce greater efficiency
in public enterpr1ses by placing their operations on commercial principles. The strategy was principally
one of divestiture and of mobilization of private sector resources into activities formerly dominated by
the state. A privatization commission has beer set up to oversee the disposal of enterprises. By the end
of 1993, privatization was completed for 13 enterprises in the commercial and industrial sectors. A
positive outcome of the program is that foreign investors have manifested a strong interest in taking over
enterprises in association with private local investors; foreign capital is now present in 6 of the privatized
companies. In addition, four enterprises have been liquidated, and a decision to liquida a fifth,
OFNACER (grain mrarketing) has already been made. Negotiations to privatize four of the live major
commercial banks are progressing satisfactorily2, while the fifth, BND-B, the development bank, will
be liquidated. An agency established in mid-1991 to recover bad debts (BRCB) has been able to recover
CFAF 4.5 billica by the end of November 1993, or slighltly more than the target established under the
SAL I program.
13.   The Government simplified and gradually removed priar import authorizations which initially
covered nearly all imports. In January 1994, only three products (rice, sugar, and arms and explosives)
were subject to any prior import authorization. In the last part of 1993, a declining protective tax was
introduced on imports of 22 goods competing with those produced locally with the intent to substitute for
the protection formerly accorded by quantitative import restrictions; initially set at 30% of c.i.f. value,
it was intended to decline to 10% in two years and be abolished thereafter. In 1993, a new import tariff
schedule was introduced, providing for only three tariff rate categories, with a much-reduced dispersion
of rates. Several parastatal entities active in external trade have been reviewed; a re-formulation of their
functions, to make them more responsive to private sector needs in a liberalized incentive environment,
is being pursued under the Private Sector Assistance project (Cr. 2472-BUR) approved by the Board in
March 1993.
14.   Since 1991, price controls on both domestic and imported goods have been gradually eliminated
so that, at the beginning of 1994, only utility tariffs, prices of petroleum products, wholesale prices of
rice and sugar, and prices of medicine were subject to any government control. Price decontrol was fully
accepted by both producers and consumers. Oter regulatory reforms have included adoption of a revised
investment code in June 1992, providing for neutral and transparent incentives for investors. A Law
Revision Committee has been established and is consolidating legal texWs, with follow-up training and
other assistance under the Public Institutional Development project. The application of a revised labor
code, adopted in December 1992, was made more conducive to employment generation by clarifications,
published in November 1993, of the provisions of the code regarding the applicability and renewability
of temporary labor contracts.
15.   Since the mid-1980s, Burkina's economy was negatively affected by the economic decline in the
CFAF zone as a whole, and particularly by lagging workers' remittances from the Cote d'lvoire where
an estimated 3 million Burkinabe have emigrated. Since 1986, the thirteen CFA countries as a group
have experienced a severe, prolonged recession that has cut real per capita incomes by some 40%. The
downward deflationary spiral both impoverished the population of the zone and undermined its financial
institutions. The internal adjustment programs pursued by the CFA zone countries have been unable to
2 These banks are: Banque International. flu turikia 031B), Banque Intemrationale pour le Commerce,
l'lndustrie et I'Agriculture (BICIA), Cai.sse Natinale dc CriEdit '\grico1 (CNCA), and Banque pour le Financement
du Commerce et de l'industrie (BFCI).



5
reverse the ongoing economic decline primarily because of the downward rigidity of wages and prices
and the difficulty of making the requisite fiscal adjustments during a prolonged recession. The decline
of world market cotton prices in the last two years aggravated the economic situation in Burkina as a
reduction in producer prices, while insufficient to produce a profit for the cotton company, lead to a 16%
fall in output in the 1993/94 crop year. Real GDP growth which averaged only about 3.3% between
1986 and 1991, or slightlv more than the increase in the population, dropped to an estimated 0.7% in
1992 and 0.4% in 1993.
16.   Recognizing the limits on the effectiveness of internal policy instruments in restoring
competitiveness to the economy, the Government of Burkina, after close consultation with other member
countries of the CFA zone, decided to strengthen its adjustment strategy. Effective January 12, 1994 the
fixed parity of the CFA franc was changed from 50 to 100 CFAF per French franc. This historic
decision represented a major step to launch a broad development agenda in a region which had
experienced serious economic decline.
B. Government Economic Policies for 1994-96
17.   Immediately after the re-alignment of the parity of the CFA franc, the Burkinabe Government
has updated and revised its medium-term program of structural reforms in the third Policy Framewor.-
Paper, 1994-96. The program includes measures to reduce the fiscal deficit and contain monetary growth
as well as a continuation and deepening of structural reforms underway since 1991. The Government
expects that implementation of this program will allow the Burkina economy to reach a higher growth
path, averaging 5-6% p.a., in the late 1990s and make headway in reducing poverty, especially through
an increase of access of the population to primary education and basic health care services.
18.   Deriving the full benefit from the devaluation is a key objective of the Government's program
in the 1994-96 period. It fully recognizes the critical importance of accompanying   _ . r  designed
to ensure that the anticipated real depreciation benefits do materialize. Because the objective I % 4chieve
and maintain a real depreciation of about 36% in foreign currency terms, the envisaged policies will
ensure that the acceleration in inflation resulting from higher import prices is temporary and limited to
permitting a re-alignment of relative prices sought by the change in the parity. The Government will
therefore endeavor to contain increases in domestic costs, especially of wages. At the same time, it will
pursue restrictive fiscal and monetary policies designed to contain inflation (as measured by the consumer
price index); after an initial increase to 31% m 1994, inflation should decline substantially in 1995-96,
to less than 5% in 1997. While real household consumption will fall by more than 2% in 1994, it is
expected to recover in 1995 with the pickup of economic activity induced by the devaluation, and in 1996
it should reach a level more than 5% above that which would have obtained in the absence of
comprehensive adjustment. The programmed substantial improvement in the fiscal situation (Government
savings should exceed I % of GDP in 1996) along with increased incentives for private sector investment
and production, will boost investment from 22% of GDP in 1993 to 27% in 1996, and domestic savings
from 2% of GDP in 1993 to almost 9% in 1996. The external current account deficit (excluding official
transfers) will be reduced from 16% of GDP in 1993 to 14.8% of GDP in 1996 thanks to a recovery in
the growth of exports - in direct response to the devaluation - and a slowdown in the growth of imports
to 1.6% per annum made possible by both the contractionary effect of the increase in their cost and
expenditure switching to relatively less expensive domestic import-substitutes.



6
19.   Improved competitiveness should provide the impetus for growtL in a number of secters of the
Burkinabe economy. In agriculture, it will restore the financial viabi:ity of cotton production; silow local
rice and sugar production to compete better with imports without recourse to distortionary trade tariffs;
allow Burkinabe stockbreeders to cornpete more effectively against imports from the EEC and South
America and to re-capture their share in the regional market; and promote further diversification into
other high-value agricultural products and exports, notably .L `ts and vegetables. Enterprises in the
export and import-substitution sectors (includirg gold, tires, bicycles, and textiles) will increase their
profitability, which should stimulate investment and facilitate some of the planned privatizations. An
important consequence of the re-alignment of relative prices will be a boost to real incomes in the rural
areas, where close to 90% of the population lives. TIlis shift in income distribution is expected to slow
migratory flows toward the urban centers and, because the rural population has a lower propensity to
consume imported goods than urban dwellers, contribute to an improvement in the balance of payments.
20.   The devaluation should also open a window of opportunity for accelerating human resource
development through an expansion of access to primary education and health, for three reasons. First,
the fiscal situation will improve (since the elasticity of tax revenue with respect to changes in the
exchange rate is higher than that of current expenditure) giving the Government more room to manoeuvre
in increasing the resource allocattion for these two priority s,..ors. Second, the reduction in real civil
service wage rates will translate directly into lower unit costs3, allowing the Government to increase
recruitrnent of primary school teachers and basic health personnel. 7hird, the devaluation provides an
impetus to long-overdue referm of the pharmaceutical market, with the expected result that generic
medicines, costing on average one third of their brand-name equivalents, will become available to a much
larger proportion of the population.
C. The 1994 Economic Recovery Program
21.   In the context of the Government's medium term economic and social development strategy, the
most pressing objectives for 1994 are to (i) mitigate the adverse impacts of the parity change while
reducing aggregate demand so as to contain inflationary pressure; (ii) vontinue and deepen ongoing
structural and sectoral reforms to ensure improved competitiveness and an economic environment
conducive to private sector growth; and (iii) strengthen the delivery of essential social services. The
Government will, in parallel, ensure that gains from earlier reforms, e.g. price liberalization, are not
compromised in the effort to address the adverse short term consequences of the parity change.
Public Finance
22.   Public finance policy wiil aim at containing the overall deficit (on a commitment basis, excluding
grants) to CFAF 171 billion (16.2% of GDP) while making the following exceptional expenditures
(equivalent to 3.8% of GDP): settlement of domestic arrears (CFAF 11 billion out of an end-1993 stock
estimated at CFAF 45 billion), repaying all arrears on external debt service (CFAF 6.6 billion), and
making exceptional expenditure for banking sector and public enterprise restructuring (CFAF 20 billion
and CFAF 2 billion, respectively). To contain the deficit, the Government's main objectives will
therefore be to limit current expenditure to CFAF 144 billion, or 13.7% of GDP (down from 15.0% of
3 This link and its implications for the delivery of primary education and health services to a larger portion of
the population were analyzed in the Public Expenditure Review, Report No. 11901-BUR, distributed to the Board
in May 1993.



7
GDP in 1193), largely because wage increases will be well below projected inflation, and to achieve
revenues of CFAF 122 billion, O0 11.6% of GDP. At the same time, the Government will aim to
enhance the effectiveness of public expenditures and. by continuing a reform of the ta system, provide
incentives to increased efficiency in the private sector.
23.   Taxation and Revenues. Four broad objectives -- to simplify the tax system, expand the tax
base, reduce tax (particularly customs) fraud, ;nd provide incentives to increased efficiency in the private
sector - have guided the formulation of measures that art, being put in place in 1994. The Government
will endervor to correct the slippage encountered in the implementation of the VAT and the new customs
tariff, which were introduced in January 1993. In particular, when correctly implemented, the incentives
provided by the new customs tariff will be fully in line with the objectives of the West African Economic
and Monetary Union; there are only three tariff rate categories, with cumulative import taxation set at
11%, 15%, and 37%. In 1994, the Government will therefore put in place the following new measures
to deepen the reforms launched , January 1993:
(i)  reduction of die number of VAT rates to a single rate of 15%;
(ii)  elimination of VAT exemptions on certain goods, including cement;
(iii)  replacement of specific taxes by ad valorem excise taxes, with the same rates applicable
to both domestic and imported goods (except for cigarettes);
(iv)   elimination of the 4% statistical tax on exports; and
(v)  introduction of an import duty drawback for exporters.
24.   In response to the devaluation, additional measures have been already implemented to mitigate
the adverse impact of the devaluation. They are:
(i)  elimination of the temporary import tax on rice (13%) and sugar (19 %) because the need
to protect domestic producers has been met by the devaluation; the price of rice is a
particularly sensitive one in the urban areas, and this measure contributes to dampening
the adverse impact of the devaluation;
(ii)  re-classification of fertilizer and insecticides into the lowest import tariff rate category
to enhance the impact of the devaluation on incentives to increased agricultural
production and conservation of fragile soil resources;
(iii)  reduction of taxation of petroleum products to an average of 62%, from 93% previously,
so as to limit consumer price increases, provide better incentives to producers, and
contain the cost-push effect in domestic industry; and
(iv)  reduction of import tariff rates on essential medicines, both to mitigate the adverse
impact on consumers and to encourage pharmacists to increase the share of essential
medicines (in contrast to nonessential ones) in their purchases.



8
Furthermore, by the end of June 1994, the Government will review the need for the declining protective
tax (TDP), which was introduced on 22 products4 in late 1993 to compensate local producers for the
protection they lost when quantitative import restrictio.is were removed. The objective is to reduce the
applicable rate (30% during the first year) to at most 10% by January 1, 1995, at the latest, and to reduce
the number of products on which any TDP is applied. The abolition of the TDP would both provide
incentives to increased efficiency in local production and contribute to limiting consumer price increases.
25.   Expenditures. Expenditure policy will place emphasis on improved resource allocation and use
through ensuring adequate budgetary allocations for the social sectors and for operations and maintenance
spending, while containing the wage bill and reducing non-essential current expenditures. Procedures
for execution of expenditures will be strictly enforced in order to avoid the accumulation of domestic
arrears.
26.   Following the devaluation, the Government has formulated a revised budget and submitted it for
the approval of the Parliament at its March session. Total expenditure and net lending will be limited
to CFAF 293 billion, or 28% of GDP. Substantial provisions have been made for banking (CFAF 20
billion) and public enterprise restructuring (CFAF 2 billion). The revised budget is an appropriate
response to the devaluation and provides, in particular, for the following:
(i)  the government wage bill will be limited to CFAF 58.1 billion (compared to CFAF 54.3
billion budgeted for 1994 before the devaluation). wages will be increased as of April
1, 1994, by 4% to 8% depending on the grade, with larger increases given to those
nearer the bottom of the salary scale; this measure w-i; enhance the relative status of
women both because they tend to hold lower-level jobs and because of sex discrimination
in the assignment to salary grades; no other across-the-board increase will be granted in
1994 and recruitment will occur only in the health and education sectors;
(ii)  the allocation for routine road maintenance activities has been increased by 47% to
CFAF 4.4 billion in the wake of the parity change to allow for execution of priority
works, fully in line with the objectives adopted under the ongoing Transport Sector
Adjustment Program-,
(iii)  the allocations for operations and maintenance (O&M) expenditures have been increased
by 46% overall (to CFAF 23.2 billion), including an increase for the administration's
consumption of water, electricity, and telephone (to CFAF 6.0 billion) and a 38%
increase for materials and supplies spending in development-related services; the O&M
allocation to defense has been kept constant in nominal terms at its pre-devaluation level
of CFAF 3.3 billion;
(iv)  the allocation for secondary and higher education scholarships spending will be limited
to CFAF 5.87 billion to reflect the doubling in domestic currency terms of transfers to
students overseas and a 8% increase in the nominal value of transfers to be granted to
4 These products are: eggs, tiles, some bicycle parts, frozen seafood, carton paper, soap, polyethylene foil,
corrugated metal sheets, plastic tubing, ethyl alcohol, edible oils, household insecticides, glue, foam mattresses, tires
and tubes, radio batteries, bleached and dyed cloth, printed cloth, bleached and dyed thread, venetian blinds,
polyethylene bags, wheat and wheat flour, and tomato paste.



9
domestic students as of April 1, 1994; the budgeted amount is only 13% higher in
nominal terms than actual expenditure in 1993 because the initial 1994 budget fully met
the Government's commitment to reduce the scholarship allocation by 6%; and
(v)  investnent spending is projected to amount to CFAF 128 billion (12.2% of GDP), a
substantial real increase from 1993 when it is estimated to have been about 7.1% of GDP
because project execution was hampered by inadequacy of local counterpart funds as well
as by suspension of disbursements from several donors caused by a build-up of debt
service payments arrears.  The projected amount therefore reflects, in part, the
completion of the 1993 program. Investment will be concentrated in the water supply,
agriculture, infrastructure, and the social sectors. Emphasis will be placed on ensuring
that counterpart funds are executed as budgeted.
Monetary Policy
27.   The central objective of monetary policy in 1994 is to limit growth in net credit to government,
while allowing reasonable expansion in credit to the rest of the economy, especially to assure the
financing of the 1994/95 agricultural crop season. Net credit to Government will not increase by more
than 2.5% of beginning-of-period money stock, while increase in credit to the economy will be limited
to 8.9%. The increase in money supply will be limited to 20.5%. Credit and financial intermediation
policy will continue to benefit from the ongoing reform of monetary instruments being carried out by
the BCEAO, notably the replacement of administrative credit controls with more indirect instruments,
including a more flexible interest rate policy, the introduction of required reserve ratios, and the
expansion of the role of the money market. The Central Banik discount rate has been increased to 14.5%
from 10.5% immediately after the devaluation. Banks will continue to have access to the money market
where interest rates will be determined by market forces.
Pricing and Wages Policy
28.   The Government's overridmg objective is to limit inflation to that needed to accomplish the
change in relative prices expected from the devaluation. To dampen inflationary pressure and counter
consumer panic, a wide range of price controls (fixed margins on most products and fixed prices for
others) was put into place immediately after the devaluation. Since then, the Government has been
gradually lifting these controls and allowing prices of more goods to reflect the change in the parity. At
the same time, the Government recognizes that while the main instrument for containing inflation will
be the effective pursuit of the public finance and monetary policies described above, a concerted effort
to limit increases in local costs will also be necessary. The minimnum wage, which has been unchanged
since 1988, will be increased by 10% (to the equivalent of US$0.23/hour) as of April 1, 1994. Of
particular importance is the need to limit civil service wage increases to those compatible with the overall
program. Hence, to diminish the likelihood that the powerful trade unions would obtain excessive wage
increases and thus derail the program, the Government has decided to act on two fronts: (i) intensify the
public information campaign to break speculative price behavior and organize a national forum (Assises)
in mid-April to explain the benefits from a real depreciation of the exchange rate, and (ii) limit consumer
price increases of a few key commodities (petroleum products, r ice, essential generic drugs, and school
supplies) to less than those implied by the devaluation.
29.    ne prices of petroleum products increased Lby 2540%  after the devaluation. This limited
increase was made possible by a reduction in taxation of these products (see para. 24 above). In the past,



10
the larger part of the levies had accrued to parafiscal funds (especially the CGP) which accumulated
substantial resources while maintaining prices unchanged since 1982. Burkinabe consumers and
producers have thus not benefited from the decline in world market prices since then; if taxation of
petroleum products had not been reduced, the consume.r price of regular gasoline, for example, would
have reached US$3.40/gallon. In view of the wide-spread use of kerosene by the population, and the
benefit to the environment of providing incentives for its increased use in place of scarce firewood, the
price of kerosene will be kept constant at its pre-devaluation level until July 1994. The consumer price
of imported rice has been increased by 23% to CFAF 210/kg and will be maintained at that level for six
months; the existing stock maintained by the CGP, along with the elimination of an import tax surcharge
(para. 24), will make this possible. In addition, structural reform measures in the pharmaceutical market
(para. 37 below) will increase the access of the population to affordable imported medications.
30.   With the exceptions described in para. 29 above, the Government aims to allow the transmission
of the full effect of the price increases implied by the devaluation to the economy. Therefore, tariffs for
key utilities wili be revised during 1994 to pre-empt the need for direct subsidies5. Preliminary estimates
show that the CPI has increased by about 25% since the devaluation.
31.   The devaluation will shift the terms of trade in favor of the rural sector. The price of cotton,
which is the major export crop, has been increased for the ongoing campaign by 40%, to CFAF 112/kg.
At the previous producer price, the cotton sector would have suffered substantial losses; the producer
price increase is the maximum one possible under current world market conditions and will permit the
generation of a modest profit for the cotton company in 1994. The producer price increase will result
in a significant improvement in the real incomes of farmers, both because they have already purchased
imported inputs for the next campaign at pre-devaluation prices and because the prices for the goods
consumed by the rural population are expected to increase less than the overall CPI. The prices of other
agricultural cash crops such as fruits and vegetables, sesame, and sheanuts, are market-determined and
will therefore come to reflect the full impact of the devaluation. An association of livestock exporters
has already registered increased demand for Burkinabb livestock products from the CBte d'Ivoire market.
Structural Policies
32.   In 1994, the Government will continue to implement its program of structural reforms. An
important priority will be to facilitate a private sector response. The banking sector reforms underway
since 1991 (para. 12 above) will continue with the liquidation of the BND-B and the privatization and
financial restructuring of the other commercial banks. Reforms in public enterprises will concentrate on
sustaining and accelerating the privatization program; negotiations to privatize six companies are expected
to be completed by the end of 1994, including SONACOR6, the national railway (SCFB), and the urban
bus company (Regie X-9). The Privatization Commission will be strengthened, and the Government will
seek from Parliament the authorization to offer for sale 18 additional enterprises; invitations to bid will
be issued for at least six of these enterprises. The Government also plans to finalize the revision of the
5 In the medium-term, the Government also intends to reduce the indirect subsidies accorded, in particular, to
the power company through exemptions from most import taxes on fuel. Action plans to reduce indirec-t subsidies
to the power company (SONABEL) and the water supply utility (ONEA) will be adopted before the end of 1994.
6 Rice milling company, currently a subsidiary of the CGP; privatization is a condition of the release of the
second tranche of the Agriculture SECAL.



11
mining code and of tax and other regulation of mining exploration, investment, and production so as to
create conditions conducive to attracting increased interest from international investors while ensuring
maximum benefits to the Burkinabe economy. The mining sector is expected to contribute significantly
both to fiscal revenues and to exports in the late 1990s.
33.   Regional Integration. During the Dakar meeting of January 10-11, 1994, the WAMU Heads
of State signed the treaty converting the Monetary Union into an Economic and Monetary Union. This
treaty provides for the setting up of mechanisms aimed at ensuring the convergence of national economic
policies and their harmonization with the Union's monetary policy, and the standardization of taxation
and foreign trade rules for the countries concerned. These mechanisms will join those that are already
being used at the monetary level. Together, they will constitute an asset for complying with the
restrictive fiscal and monetary policies that are necessary for the success of the adjustment program. The
economic area will also make it possible to increase tha region's economic productions through the
expansion of markets and economies of scale. This will enhance the growth of exports from the countries
in the Union. WAEMU will also give greater weight to countries in the subregion in their economic
relations with their partners.
Priority Action Plan for Primary Education and Health in 1994
34.   Primary education and health have been identified as the priority sectors in budget formulation
and execution since 1991 (para. 9 above). The draft 1994 budget had been reviewed by the Bank and
provided, in particular, for a 10% increase in the total budgeted amount for primary education and a
7.8% increase for health relative to estimated actual expenditure in 1993. This was fully in line with the
action plan agreed with the Government under the ongoing SAL I program, and covered, in particular,
the agreed improvement in the availability of materials in both sectors as well as the planned hiring of
950 new teachers for the 1994/95 school year. Following the devaluation, the Government therefore
concentrated on formulating additional measures to strengthen the delivery of these services to a larger
proportion of the population, taking advantage of the improved fiscal situation created by the parity
change. The budgetary allocations for these two sectors have been increased so that the share of the
operating budget earmarked for primary education has increased to 12.4% from 11.7% in the pre-
devaluation budget, and that for health increased to 10.9% from 9.6%. Aside from a 38% increase in
the allocations for materials and an increase in wage bill costs for existing and planned personnel, the
Government decided to tackle several critical problems.
Prinmay ducation
35.   Under the ongoing program, the Government has been recruiting 950 teachers per year in order
to reach its enrollment rate target of 40% in 1996/97.7 However, in the last two years, procedural
difficulties have plagued the recruitment process, with the result that many new teachers were still not
in classrooms as late as four months after the start of the school year. Moreover, about 12% of
classrooms were slated to be taught by a revolving cohort of 1,100 young graduates performing their
national service (SND) for one year; this service is managed by the Ministry of Defense whose
procedures for the allocation of SND agents to schools resulted in much lost teaching time. Overall, at
least three months of schooling have been lost for nearly one-fifth of primary school pupils. In addition,
300 classrooms are closed because of a lack of teachers; at the same time the school construction program
7 The current enrollment rate is estimated at 34%.



12
fell behind schedule because of weak works management capacity in the ministry of primary education.
To eliminate the inefficiency introduced by the use of SND, by empty classrooms in some areas and
insufficient infrastructure in others, and by the complex and time-consuming recruitment procedures, the
Government has decided to take the following measures:
(i)  immediately recruit, from among those who passed the 1993 exam8, 300 teachers for
empty classrooms so that an estimated 12,000 additional children could attend school for
the remainder of the 1993/94 school year;
(ii)  formulate streamlined recruitment procedures and submit them to the World Bank by
March 31, 1994, so that future recruitment could take place in a timely manner, putting
teachers in classrooms at the start of the school year in October 1994;
(iii)  replace the stock 1,100 SND agents allocated to primary education with teachers starting
in October 1994; and
(iv)  assign a large portion of the management of school construction and procurement of
school equipment to the Faso Baara agency.
36.   The availability of affordable school supplies has become a larger concern after the devaluation,
leading the Government to impose price controls (para. 28 above). A full price increase to reflect the
substantial import content would have further reduced, particularly, school enrollment of girls and of
children from poor families in general. The Government has therefore decided to accelerate the
introduction of textbook lending programs, for which a supplementary allocation of CFAF 1.6 billion has
been included in the revised 1994 budget. Additional subsidies aimed at poor children, also included in
the revised 1994 budget, will be provided for school feeding programs and to cover a part of school fees
in private primary schools.
Health
37.   The availability of essential generic drugs (MEG) in Burkina has been extremely limited to date.
Over 90% of the market has been covered by private pharmacists who have stocked primarily brand-name
supplies, in large part because the Government regulated prices by setting fixed margins, encouraging
pharmacists to import high-priced items. Public health centers have been inadequately supplied, resulting
in very low utilization rates and considerable inefficiency. According to a 1991 survey, three quarters
of prescriptions, which patients had to fill in pharmacies, were for brand-name medicines, and the
average cost of a prescription was CFAF 1,500, or the equivalent of a week's wages. This clearly placed
medical care out of the reach of the vast majority of the population. Reforms to encourage increased
supplies of generic equivalents have been formulated but the Government has not put them in place
effectively; the initial orders of the first stock of the procurement agency for essential generic drugs
(CAMEG) arrived in Burkina only at the beginning of 1994. The devaluation provided the impetus to
accelerate the implementation of policies to favor the availability of essential generic drugs. In
consultation with the Bank and other donors active in the health sector, the Government has decided to
implement the following measures:
8 More than 10,000 candidates took the competitive exam in 1993.



13
(i)  purchase additional MEG for CFAF 1.97 billion for the public and non-profit health
system; these drugs will be sold at prices set on the national price list; the introduction
of wider cost recovery will be carried out with the assistance of UNICEF;
(ii)  establish a national price list for MEG, providing for full cost recovery and incentives
to private pharmacists to begin to stock and distribute MEG; this price list will be
widely publicized both as a measure to mitigate the social impact of the devaluation
(since prices of generic drugs will be lower than the pre-devaluation brand-name
equivalents) and to increase the familiarity of medical personnel and of consumers with
generic drugs; this price list will also be binding on private pharmacists as of May 1,
1994 when the profit margin system of price controls will have been abolished; and
(iii)  authorize pharmacists to substitute generic equivalents in filling subscriptions and to
operate branch retail outlets.
38.   Monitoring. The above measures are fully in line with the on-going SAL I, which already
stipulates close monitoring of expenditures in priority sectors (including primary education and health)
and they have been integrated in the revised 1994 budget. To simplify monitoring, and in view of the
Government's limited capacity, implementation of the above measures will be monitored during
supervision of the ongoing SAL I operation. To facilitate monitoring, the Government will, in particular,
provide quarterly reports on the execution of the budgets of the primary education and health ministries,
identifying expenditure on didactic materials, the textbook lending scheme, and implementation of the
contract with UNICEF.
Accelerated Human Resource Development
39.   Implementation of the Priority Action Plan for Primary Education and Health should help the
Government launch programs to accelerate human resource development. It is clear that sustained
development and reduction of poverty are impossible in a country where two thirds of children receive
no formal education. Nine out of ten adults are illiterate and the productivity of labor, especially of
women, is thereby greatly constrained. In the education sector, workshops are planned in the middle of
1994 and will invite participation from both education and public finance officials and from a wide
spectrum of Burkinabe citizens, including community representatives, women's groups, parents of both
enrolled and unenrolled children, and private school principals. Critical issues need to be addressed,
including the options available to increase the enrollment rate of girls and to reduce unit costs, and
reallocation of excessive secondary school and university student subsidies (now 24% of the education
operating budget) to spending on instruction. In parallel to the formulation of the Priority Action Plan
for essential generic drugs, the Government has finalized a program of development and decentralization
for the public health services, aiming to improve the coverage, quality, and utilization of primary care
services; the Priority Action Plan includes the critical accompanying policy measures to ensure an
effective implementation of this program.
D. Financing Requirements
40.   After taking into account commitments already made for project loans, use of IMF resources of
CFAF 15 billion, debt rescheduling already obtained under the May 1993 Paris Club Agreement of CFAF
13 billion, and CFAF 2 billion of debt reduction recently announced by France, the external financing



14
requirements for 1994 will amount to about CFAF 106 billion (US$ 174 million). These requirements
will be covered by exceptional financial assistance. CFAF 55 billion is expected to come th.ough credits
from multilateral institutions; CFAr 18 billion in transfers from the European Union; and CFAF 38
billion in official bilateral assistance.
PART II. IDA'S STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS IN 1994
A. Country Strategy and Priorities
41.   A full Country Assistance Strategy is under preparation. The following paragraphs outline the
guiding principles for future Bank interventions and provide a context for the present operation.
42.   Country's potential. Over the medium term, agriculture will continue to be the mainstay of the
Burkinabe economy. Full implementation of the reforms outlined in the third PFP, and supported by this
operation, the ongoing SAL I and Transport and Agriculture SECALs should allow significant
improvement in Burkina's international competitiveness. This, coupled with ongoing efforts towards
greater regional integration, should allow fuller exploitation of the opportunities provided by relatively
large areas suitable for rainfed agriculture, especially those recently freed of onchocerciasis. Production
and export of traditional exports, notably cotton and livestock, can be expected to expand significantly,
while incentives will improve for increased consumption of local cereals. The potential for further
expansion of relatively new exports such as fresh and processed fruits and vegetables is also considerable.
Burkina's ailing industrial sector could be strengthened through the expansion of industrial growth linked
to the agriculture sector (textiles, hides, edible oils) and the growth of other light industrial manufacturing
activity. In the mining sector, there is potential for increased gold production as well as start-up of new
mi-nes for zinc and manganese.
43.   Tackling Long-Term Issues. By creating conditions which maximize Burkina's chances to
realize its full economic potential, the adjustment effort in 1994 marks a new beginning and the possibility
to tackle long term issues in a sustainable manner. The following principles will therefore underpin the
Bank's support to Burkina:
(a)    Human Resources: An Absolute Priority. Realizing Burkina's potential will require not
only the pursuit of sound economic policies and the maintenance of a stable
macroeconomic framework, but also strong follow-up action to the recent initiatives to
improve the country's human resource base. The policies adopted in 1994 and described
in para. 34-39 above, represent a promising start for launching a broad based human
resource effort. Without significant improvement in its primary school enrollment ratio
(more than one million children do not have access to primary education), access to
primary health care (mortality and morbidity rates are among the highest in the world),
and concerted effort to reduce population growth (estimated at 3.1 % and rising), and to
improve the efficiency of education and health expenditures, the country is unlikely to
make much progress. IDA's assistance is geared to help the Government make rapid
progress in these areas which have received a great deal of attention in the design of the
measures accompanying the devaluation in 1994. Performance on human resource
development will be a weighty indicator in assessing the country's overall economic



15
performance and gauging the future level of IDA assistance.
(b)    Natural Resource Management. Land degradation is the most serious environmental
problem faced by Burkina. This problem has been aggravated by inappropriate
cultivation methods and increasing population pressure. Improved natural resources
management is critical to Burkina's longer term agricultural and overall growth
performance.  Burkina is a leader in the Sahel in promoting improved resource
management methods and in increasing community involvement. IDA should continue
to assist in this area, through follow-up operations to encourage the development of
private irrigation and wider adoption of soil and biomass conservation methods, such as
those promoted under the ongoing Natural Resources Management Project (PNGT). A
National Environmental Action Plan has already been prepared but a more limited focus
on essential priorities, streamlining of Government agencies, and improved coordination
among donors are needed.
(c)   Institutional Development: Public and Private. Institutional weaknesses are particularly
evident in the difficulties which the Government encounters in implementing its reform
program. Overlapping and unclear responsibilities, lack of accountability, a proliferation
of donor-driven initiatives, and weak capacity in both the private and public sectors
hamper improved competitiveness of the economy and overall longer-term development.
Despite some progress made, much remains to be done both in the public sector and in
institutions needed to promote private sector development (Chamber of Commerce,
business law, trade courts, etc.).
B. Follow-up Operations to the ERC in 1994
44.   The proposed ERC represents an exceptional response to a historic decision. Its design and
conditionality reflect the situation in Burkina in two ways: (i) the need to provide timely support for the
1994 program and the measures taken to accompany the devaluation (streamlined conditionality as in the
ERCs proposed for other CFA countries); and (ii) the need to integrate the measures supported by the
ERC into the ongoing SAL I program which supports reforms in a number of the areas covered by the
ERC (priority sector expenditure, import tariff reform, price liberalization). The ERC is part of the
response planned by IDA to ensure the necessary conditions for a favorable supply response following
the devaluation while continuing IDA support to human resource development. This response includes
a stepped-up effort to encourage implementation of ongoing sectoral adjustment programs (SAL I and the
Transport and Agriculture SECALs) and to accelerate the implementation of ongoing investment projects.
In addition, further adjustment operations are planned to provide the necessary financing in support of
comprehensive and far-reaching reform efforts. In parallel, investment operations aimed at poverty
alleviation and generating a strong supply response and employment creation would also be launched.
45.   Two projects in the health sector, Population/AIDS and Health/Nutrition are expected to be ready
for Board presentation be'iore the end of PY94 to make headway in critical areas of human resource
development. Because the negative impact of the devaluation will be concentrated in urban areas, IDA
plans to expand its support to urban private-sector employment generation for unskilled and semi-skilled
laborers by building on the successful performance of the Faso Baara contracting agency. There may also
be scope to expand the use of these contracting mechanisms to reaching vulnerable groups (e.g., widows
with small children) and to nutrition programs, especially provision of nutritional supplements and feeding



16
of poor pregnant women and infants. Some of these actions could be implemented under existing
projects, with additional resources from supplementary credits.
46.   The first subsequent adjustment operation would support rationalization of regulations governing
mining exploration and production. The aim is to adapt the regulatory framework to current international
standards so as to attract foreign private investors on terms that would maximize the benefits of mine
development to the Burkina economy. This operation is expected to be presented to the Board in the
second half of 1994. Looking beyond, a strong performance in implementing the adjustment program
described in this report would allow IDA to proceed with the preparation of a second SAL, to support
further strengthening of incentives to private sector development and a concerted effort to bolster the
position of women and support poverty alleviation through accelerated human resource development.
PART III. THE PROPOSED ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
A.   Financing and Management of the Program
47.   It is proposed that an Economic Recovery Credit in the equivalent of US$25 million be allocated
to Burkina on standard IDA terms. The objectives of the credit are: (i) to support the Government's
reform program, outlined in the Government's Statement of Economic and Social Development Policies,
dated March 7, 1994; (ii) to provide the necessary financial assistance during the transition period in
which follow-up operations are being prepared; and (iii) to deepen the policy dialogue between the
Government and IDA.
48.   Due to the urgent nature of the operation, it is proposed that the credit be disbursed in one
tranche. The Government's ability to consolidate early gains from the devaluation and respect its
financial program requires that budgetary support be made available rapidly. The full amount of the
Economic Recovery Credit resources has therefore been programmed for disbursement by end-June 1994.
B.    Procurement and Disbursement
49.   Procurement procedures have been designed to permit rapid use of funds while ensuring
efficiency and accountability in the process. Simplified international competitive bidding ([CB) would
be required for eligible imports by public agencies and by the private sector exceeding US$5 million.
Procurement by public agencies for items costing below the threshold will follow standard government
practices found to be acceptable in the past. Eligible imports below the threshold by private entities
would be procured in accordance with normal commercial practices, and wherever possible, quotations
from eligible suppliers from at least two countries would be sought. Single source purchasing would
be permitted for proprietary equipment or where compatibility with existing equipment requires
standardization. Contracts valued less than US$2,500 would not be eligible for financing under this
credit. Procurement documentation will be maintained for ex-post review by the Bank. This
documentation may consist of (i) a brief description of procurement procedures; (ii) an evaluation
summary giving number of bids received; (iii) a comparative statement of prices received; (iv) dates of
contract and payments; (v) a copy of the contract; (vi) copy of invoice; and (vii) any other documentation
required by disbursements.



17
50.   The proceeds of the credit would be used to reimburse 100% of the foreign exchange cost of
eligible general imports. On an exceptional basis, to allow for timely disbursements, no limitation is
placed on petrol or food imports. Public and private sector imports would be eligible, except for (i) a
negative list and (ii) goods already financed by bilateral or multilateral credits and grants.
51.   The Government will establish a special account at the Central Bank (BCEAO) to facilitate
disbursements. The authorized allocation for the special account would be CFAF 6 billion (US$10
million equivalent). This account would be replenished regularly on the basis of fully documented
reimbursement applications in excess of US$2 million or on the basis of statements of expenditures
(SOEs) for expenditures below that amount. The Borrower would indicate on the SOEs the nature and
origin of the goods, as well as the payment date, and would maintain all relevant supporting
documentation (invoices, evidence of shipment, customs declarations, evidence of payment) for review
by Bank supervision missions. Expenditures under the IDA credit would be in accordance with normal
IDA rules. The proposed date of eligibility would be set in light of the Government's adoption of a
deepened austerity program in the second half of 1993. In order to permit timely disbursements in the
amount needed to keep the program on track, the total amount of the credit would need to be eligible for
use for retroactive financing. Given Burkina's disbursement patterns, the selection of August 2, 1993
(date of suspension of repurchase of CFA franc notes outside the CFA zone countries) as the cut-off date
for retroactive financing would provide timely effective access to the credit proceeds. Exceptional
retroactive financing would thus meet an essential objective of the operation, as would the exceptional
authorization of a special account to be used should the Government be unable to gather in time the
documentation required to take full advantage of retroactive financing.
C.   Environmental Aspects
52.   The project would be consistent with IDA policy and would follow acceptable IDA procedures.
In conformity with IDA policies for adjustment operations, no environmental rating has been assigned.
The reduction of tariff rates on fertilizer imports is expected to have a positive effect on the quality of
soil resources, and the reduction of taxation of kerosene should contribute to slowing of the rate of
deforestation.
D.    Project Implementation
53.   The Ministry of Finance and Planning is the Government's organization responsible for
coordinating and implementing the proposed project. Bank staff will continue to coordinate closely with
IMF staff to ensure adequate monitoring of key economic policies and indicators. In addition, regular
reports will be submitted to the Bank on the status of the Priority Action Plan for Primary Education and
Health (para. 35-38 above) whose implementation will be monitored during supervision of the ongoing
SAL I program. The Government will arrange for an audit report by an auditor acceptable to IDA to
be provided within four months after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower.



18
54.   The policy measures to be taken under the proposed credit are detailed in the Government's
Statement of Economic and Social Development Policies (Annex IV). As conditions of negotiations, the
Government has taken the following actions:
(i) Realigned the exchange rate, fixed at 100 CFAF for 1 French franc, effective January 12, 1994
(ii)  Increased producer price of prime quality cotton by 40% to CFAF 112/kg
(iii) Suspended the variable protection tax on sugar and rice imports
(iv) Reduced the number of VAT rates to a single rate of 15%
(v)  Reduced taxation on petroleum products to limit price increases stemming from the parity change
within the range of 25 to 40% and to maintain the price of kerosene unchanged
(vi) Limited increases in minimum wage rates to 10% in 1994
(vii) Limited increases in civil service salaries to 4-8% and in public sector pensions to 8%
(viii) Set civil service wage bill ceiling in 1994 budget to CFAF 58.1 billion
(ix)  Increased the central bank discount rate from 10.5% to 14.5%
(x) Increased non-salary social expenditure allocations fo,r ongoing programs in real terms
(xi) Increased allocation to routine road maintenance to implement program of works agreed under
the Transport SECAL
(xii) Allocated resources in the revised 1994 budget for new measures in social sectors (textbook
lending, essential generic drugs)
(xiii) Allocated resources in the revised 1994 budget to hire primary school teachers: 300 teachers
immediately, and 2,050 teachers at the start of the 1994/95 school year
(xiv) Formulated streanil;ned recruitment procedures for primary school teachers
(xv) Prepared a price list of essential generic drugs on the national list
55.   Before effectiveness (expected by April 30, 1994), the Government would: (a) repeal all price
controls established after January 12, 1994, with the exception of those referring to petroleum products,
public utility rates, and school supplies; (b) abolish its system of margin controls for all drugs; and
(c) set prices of essential generic drugs on the national list.



19
E.    Benefits and Risks
56.   Benerits. The proposed operation is expected to help the Government of Burkina implement
appropriate policy changes to achieve a significant real depreciation of the exchange rate and improved
competitiveness of the economy. Improved competitiveness will help boost growth and incomes,
particularly in rural areas of Burkina, and thus contribute to a reduction of poverty. The Credit will also
allow Government to meet the short term financing requirements of the parity change and support it in
the implementation of the Priority Action Plan for Primary Education and Health which will enhance
human resource development.
57.   Risks. Short-term costs, particularly loss of employment and a decline in the urban standard of
living, may put the Government in difficulty with vocal interest groups such as students, labor unions,
and civil servants. However, the public information campaign on the benefits of the devaluation and
selected remedial measures (reduction in tax and tariff rates to limit the price impact on key consumer
items) have been put in place to help address these risks. The immediate and visible impact of
employment creation in urban areas will also help mitigate some of the risks.
58.   A second risk is that excessive inflation would come to erode much of the gain in
competitiveness. International experience suggests, however, that devaluations in low-inflation countries
can effectively bring about real depreciations as an increase in inflation is typically short-lived. The
history of low inflation in the CFA zone, which is largely due to the supra-nationality of monetary policy
- a unique situation in the world -- confers an important advantage and contributes to reducing this risk.
PART IV. RECOMMENDATION
59.   I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
International Development Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washington, DC
March 10, 1994
Attachments



..  :  ' . . ,: '5 I;!R;L;; j IA. ,:U(lI 1l) I(, \JT0 1
Mast S?eamx P fRiorvuscardw gRou
25-30       15-20        vec.WG        sl                      bigh
Uwi':  of          yes         ycrar      aof"e&      Sahctan        Lkns        irwv
I,IicaXaY                                  rUee                   agao         af4 (frweJ                         niwAe nRp
I'OVEERTY
Upp~ poveny line                            1C0 Ufaur.
Hecdwount twdex                             % of pop.
LoWTe povertl 1=                             local CUT.
Headcoun indx                               % of pop
GNP per capita                                 USS                   70          110         290          350          350         1,610
SHORT TERM INCOME INDICA1TORS
Urw2lled urban wages                        local cu..                            ..            ..
Unailled nrual wages
Ru-al tmm of trade
Cot3uantf pime index                         1987? 100               29           43          103
Lo Zr income
Food                                                                       ..                105
Urba                                                                ..          ..           ...
Rural
SOCLIL INDICATORS
Public eNwnditte on basc social semceS      % of GDP                                           10
' 3 3 irmo1llne  ratit3
Peim!ry                                  %bool agepop.               12           16          36           70          113          100
'ale                                           "                    16           21          45           76          122          106
Female                                                               8           12          28           60          106           98
MontaIity
Infa  monrality                          thou. live bi;bs          190          166         133          104           70           40
Under  morality                                                     ..           ..         199          177           98           53
1ninstnization
MeasleS                                   %a8aScUP                   ..          ..          40           40           73           70
DPT                                                                  ..          ..          30           35           81           74
Cbild malmurition (undu-5)                                           ,*           *-           46
ifie eXcany
Total                                         years                 38           42          48           51           63           67
Fan    maletaes                               mtio                1.08         1.08         1.07         1.06        0.95          1.08
Toal festiiity rae                       bir;t  per woman           6.4          6.5          6.5          6.4          3.7          3.5
Matenalmon ality ntC                     100,000 fiveb;nh            ..           .. b10
Population growth rate                         Infant mortality rate                          Primary eurolimeat
(P=rcent)                                (IhOU. of live birt)                               (     )
6-                                          250                                            120+T
5  I                                        200                                            100
4                                    180
3                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~60-
100
o                 n                      _ L                                        I LE-1-IL-1
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
aid 60s     maid70s                             i60s    mid 70                                            -lid 70}    we
L i-in Faw
Low anvome



ANNEX I
page 2 of 5
Table  1:        BU'RKINA  PASO:    SOCIAL  INDICATORS
Momt Same resiovl~seltome gpoop      Nest
23.30       13-20       recant        SU&-                    higher
U'nit of           Yeun        yea"      esdmae       SoJ, woe        LoW.      Lacow.,
Indicatr                                    meAsure               agO         ag0        (five)      Afrwc      income        gFoup
HUMAIN RESOURCES
Popaladon (mrt'1991)                       thousands             5.103       6,202       9,272      488,932    3,127,265     773.803
Age depandency ratio                          ratio               0.83        0.88         0.95        0.97         0.66        0.71
Urbati                                      % ofpop.               S.2         6.3          9.0         28.7        40.1        53.9
Population gowth rate,                      annual %               2.0         2.1          2.3         3.0          1.9         1.7
Urban                                                             3.9         4.0          2.8          5.0         5.2         3.1
Labor force (1S-64)                        thwaunds              2,680       3,111        4,261     203,947    1,448,10      302,448
Agriculture                              % of labor force          89           87            .
Industry                                          ~      ~     ~~~~~~~~3  4
Fernale                                                            49           48          46           37           33          32
Fernale per 1 00 mAles
urban                                       number                 ..94                      .
Rural                                                               ..110                    .
NATURAL RE-SOURCES
Ame                                       tho. sq. kmn            274          274         274       23,066       38,828      23,990
Deraity                                   pop. per sq. kmn        19.0        23.0         32.0        20.0         77.0         31.0
Agricultural land                         % oflandsram            44.5        45.8         49.5         5 1.0       47.4         41.8
Chang in UicuIwil and                  annual %               0.1          0.7         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0
Agricultual land u dprintion              %0.0                            0.1          0.1          5.5        13.7         12.6
Fmoret a  woodland                        tho. sq. km              81           75          67        6,651        9,197       5.396
Deforestation (net)                         annual %              -0.7        .08           0.9
INCOME
Household income
Share of top 20%/ of households           % of uwonw.                           ..
Sharm of bottom 40% of households                                  .            ..
Share of bottom 20%/ of households                                 .            ..
EXPENDITURE
Food                                        % of GDP                ...                    35.6
Staples  ~    ~         ~          *....                                      13.9
Meat, flab. milkc chees, Om...                                                            14.6
ueaiinqioewa                            tho. metietaomst           15           26         145        7,838       36,008      44,41i
Food aid in oemeak                                                              28          44        2,677        6,669       4,047
Food prouon per capita                    1979-81-100             125          106          128          94          122         101
Fartiizar coLaUncon                          kg4za                0.0         1.0          3.0         14.5        41.3        94.2
Shame of agricultue in GDP                  % of-DP               46.0        37.5         41.6        29.2         28.7
Homing                                      %Of GDP                                        15.1
Avenge housebold size                 Fp moper household 
Urban                                                               ..          . 
fixed investinat: housing                   % Of GDP                 ..34
Fuel VWd power                              % of GDP                 .           .         11.6
Energyconurptionper capita,               kgof oilequiv.            7            217                    100          350        1,249
Hoaseholds with elecricity
Urban                                   % of hushods                ....
Rursi                                                              .            ..
Tiunsport and coanmunkcatlo                 % of GDP                 .           .         14.9
Fixed invesniat: taraipost equipmeft                                 .           .1.9
Total roadlen0h                               Ion                    ...                 11,231
INVESTMENT IN HUMAN CAPITAL
Healt
Accesato healt cam,                         % ofpop.                .
Populaton per physician                      persons           73,957            ,.      57,320
Population per nurs                                              4,145       3,999        1,682
Populton per hospital bad                                           .            .        3,392       1,328        1,048         509
Acoem to safe WatW                          %o opop.                ..        23.0         67.0        36.7         70.6
uema                                                               .         50.0         43.0        74.3         79.3
Rural.                                                                       23.0         69.0        24.2         62.8
Oral reizydyrotion therpy (under-$)         % ofcase                 ..                      IS3         35           32
Edmeadom
Ores awoliint MOt
Socoondasy                             %ofachoiw.pqop               1            2           7           18          44           54
Fanal                                                               I           I           5           1 4         37
Pupill4eacher ratio: primaxy             pupils per toeahe        47           47          57           39           39          25
PupiJ4eacber ratio: sewondary                  e36                              23          30            ..20
Pupils roeahng Ssade4                      %Of cohosi               ..          72          72           69
Repewateri: primary                      % ofttatl toIl                   18     7           1 7
Iliteascy                               %of pop. (ap 15)           9991                     82           51           39
Feakal                                % offem (kV I+)              .            .9 1                    62           52
NET2pR=  circulation                      pe thou, pop.                                      0            5
Source: World Bank Intenational Eoonomics Departnsst April 1993



ANNEX I
Table 2                                 Page 3 of 5
BUJRKINA FASO: KEY INDICATORS
Actual                  Prelim. Estim.          Projections
.... .............................................................. .... ..... .... ..... ...... ............. ............
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994   1995    1996
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...................................... ..........................................................  .........    ....... ..... .... ..... ..... .. ....
Ecorimic Irdicators (armaL X change)
Real GDP                                                   1.3     5.7    3.3   -0.0       6.0     0.7     0.4     3.3     6.4     7.7
Total real consowption per capita                         2.8      1.3   -1.9      0.1     0.2   -2.2    -1.3  -12.3    4.0        4.6
ReaL exports of GNFS                                      19.7   -6.1   -8.4   32.2   -3.5    24.1   -2.8          9.0   12.1    13.2
Real inports of GNFS                                       2.2     1.4   -6.9    12.3      8.2     1.2     3.3   -2.1      2.6    4.8
Cur. Acct. Bal., before off.transfers (X of GDP)         -12.1  -12.0  -12.3  -12.2  -14.1   -14.6  -16.0  -21.5  -17.6  -14.8
Consurer price irdex                                      -2.7     4.0   -0.3   -0.8       5.1    -0.8     1.8   31.2      7.5    6.3
National Accounts
GDP ac constant 1985 prices & exch. rate (US$ miLlion) 1328.4  1404.2  1450.9  1450.1  1537.3  1547.9  1554.6  1605.2  1707.1  1838.0
GDP at current prices t S million)                     2022.8  2237.8 2174.7  2580.7  2752.5  2939.3  2781.8  1737.8  1973.4  2230.7
GDI/GDP (%)                                               19.1   21.6   21.2   19.1    22.7    21.4   22.1    31.9   28.8   26.7
Private  rvestment/GMP (%)                                11.2     9.6   11.1   11.2    11.6    14.5   15.3    19.9   19.5   19.0
GDS/GDP (%)                                               -0.4     2.9    3.2      3.3     4.2     2.9     2.2     6.8     7.9     8.9
Private savings/GDP (X)                                   -1.7    3.1      4.1     5.3     2.5     3.3     4.6     8.9     8.2      7.7
Public savings/GMP (%)                                     1.2   -0.2   -0.9   -1.9        1.7   -0.4   -2.4   -2.2   -0.3          1.2
External Debt
Total debt outstanding (USS million)                    827.8  845.3  71T.3  834.0  967.8  1128.7  1580.1  1487.6  1693.2  1824.7
Total debt service due (US$ miltion)                     61.2   54.4  321.9   63.5    61.0   60.0   69.0   72.3   70.2   67.5
Debt outstardinr/GDP (X)                                  40.9   37.8   33.0   32.3   35.2    38.4   56.8   85.6   85.8   81.8
Debt service due/Exports goods & services C%)             22.0    18.8  126.8   17.3    17.2    17.2   20.8   20.2   16.2   13.2
Fiscal Ind.cators (% of GDP)
Central goverrment revenue, excl. grants                  13.0    11.8   11.5   13.2    14.0    12.3    12.6   11.6   11.6   11.5
Central goverrment expenditures & net lerding             24.0   21.1    19.2   20.8    21.5    19.6   21.8   27.9   22.2   18.0
Current expenditures                                      11.8   12.0   12.5   15.2    12.2    12.7    14.9   13.7   11.9   10.3
Capital expenditures                                      11.6    9.0    6.5       5.8     9.3     6.9    7.1    14.4   10.6       7.9
Other
Population growth rate (%)                                 2.7     2.7    2.8      2.8     2.8     2.9     2.9     2.9     2.9     2.9
Sources: 1987-91: IMF, Recent Econanic Developments, various issues; 1992-96: IMF, PFP3 Working Tables, March 2, 1994.



ANNEK I
Table 3                                    Pagc 4 of 5
BURKINA FASO: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
.............................
(in US$ mitlion)
Actual                 Prelim.  Estim.         Projections
1987   1988   1989   1990    1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
Trade balance                                           -245.4  -246.8  -257.0  -262.2  -318.7  -354.6  -362.4  -275.4  -249.7  -230.6
Merchandise exports, f.o.b.                            229.8  240.1  184.6  280.6  283.2  287.7  273.5  295.0  357.0  421.7
Merchardise inports, f.o.b.                            475.1  486.8  441.7  542.9  601.9  642.3  635.9  570.4  606.8  652.3
Non-factor services (net)                               -150.1  -173.2  -134.2  145.4  -190.7  -190.7  -191.1  -161.1  -162.0  -166.1
Credits                                                 34.9   34.9   51.4   68.7   53.2   61.2   58.4   62.9   76.0   89.8
Debits                                                 185.0  208.2  185.6  214.1  243.9  252.0  249.5  224.0  238.0  255.9
Factor services (net)                                    -14.3  -13.1  -16.9  -11.8  -22.0  -28.0  -29.3  -27.0  -28.6  -28.4
Credits                                                 14.0   14.1   17.9   17.6   18.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Debits                                                  28.3   27.2   34.8   29.4   40.1   28.0   29.3   27.0   28.6   28.4
of which: Interest die                                28.3   27.2   28.5   23.5   29.4   18.7   24.5   26.4   26.7   26.7
Private transfers (net)                                  165.6  165.2  140.4  105.0  142.9  144.7  138.5   90.4   93.2   94.6
Current account balance, exct.officiat transfers        -246.1  -267.9  -267.7  -314.4  -388.5  -428.6  -444.4  -373.1  -347.1  -330.5
Net official transfers (excludirn  capital grants)        69.9   74.2  306.3  157.6  198.5  245.6  245.3  172.9  140.9  134.0
Curr. acct. baLance, inct. offic. non-capital transfers  -174.3  -193.7   38.6  -156.8  -190.0  -183.0  -199.1  -200.2  -206.2  -196.5
Net LT capital                                           205.0  190.7  -149.8  126.0  215.6  205.9  196.5  268.3  229.9  199.6
CapitaL grants                                         123.1  127.6   50.5   67.9  100.7   86.1   83.8  107.2   90.5   84.0
Net direct foreign investrmnt                            6.0    1.7   11.3    8.1       0.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.6    3.2
Net LT debt                                             75.9   61.4  -211.6   50.0  114.1  119.8  112.7  161.1  137.8  112.4
Dishursenents                                        108.8   88.6   81.8   90.0  145.7  151.5  152.5  206.2  179.3  151.1
Amortization due                                      32.9   27.2  293.4   40.0   31.5   31.7   39.8   45.1   41.5   38.7
Other capital flows                                      -20.8   23.8  -19.4  -12.5    5.3   34.5    5.1          0.0    0.0    0.0
Net short-term capital                                   5.3    3.4  -13.5    4.0       4.3  -20.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Monetary capitaL                                       -23.3   -3.4    0.0    7.3    7.1        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Errors & omissions                                      -2.9   23.8   -6.0  -23.9   -6.0   55.3    5.1    0.0    0.0    0.0
OVERALL BALANCE (deficit -)                          9.8   20.8  -130.7  -43.3   30.8   57.4    2.5   68.1   23.7    3.1
FINANCING                                           -9.8  -20.8  130.7   43.3  -30.8  -57.4   -2.5  -68.1  -23.7   -3.1
Net foreign assets                                       -32.2  -35.6   48.6   -6.2  -26.6  -54.7  -36.0  -50.0  -57.4  -45.2
Net use of Furd resources                                0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    8.5    9.1   12.2   24.6   24.4   -0.8
Purchases                                              0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    8.5    9.1   12.2   24.6   24.4    0.0
Repurchases                                            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.8
Other char,e in reserves (increase -)                  -32.2  -35.6   48.6   -6.2  -35.1  -63.8  -48.2  -74.6  -81.8  -44.4
Change in arrears (increase +)                            22.4   14.8   65.5   49.6  -139.3  -24.2   24.1  -44.2    0.0    0.0
Debt relief                                                0.0    0.0   16.6    0.0  135.1   21.5    9.4   26.1    8.7    0.0
ResidjaL financing gap                                     0.0   -0.0    0.0    0.0   -0.0    0.0   -0.0   -0,0   25.0   42.1
Sources: 1987-91: IMF, Recent Econanic Developuients, various issues; 1992-96: IMF, PFP3 Working Tables, March 2, 1994.



ANNEX I
Table 4                             Page 5 of 5
WRJKINA FASO: C4JSOLIDATED GOWRNMENT FINANCIAL OPEARTIONS
(in billions of CFA francs)
ActuaL                  Prelim. Estim.          Projections
...... ........ .............. .............  ......----  .-..-------.-.-..-------
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
~~~. . .. .... ... .............. ........................ .......... ............... .... ..... .. ..... ..... . ...   ----  ---------------
Totat revenue                                               79.2   78.3   79.9   92.9  108.5   95.4  100.7  122.0  139.9  158.8
Current revenue                                           79.2   78.3   79.9   92.9  107.9   95.4    99.9  121.3  139.9  158.8
Of i.hich: tax reverue                                  65.1   69.7   66.9    76.4   83.2    78.7   73.7   110.0  125.0  141.7
Capital revenue                                            0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.6     0.0     0.8     0.7     0.0    0.0
Total experditure                                          142.6  139.9  131.5   147.1   166.5   152.5   175.4  295.7  270.6  250.9
Current expenditure                                       71.8   79.9   86.4   106.6   94.6   98.5   119.1   144.0  143.3  142.4
Capital experditure                                       70.8   60.0   45.1    40.5    71.9   54.0    56.3   151.7  127.3  108.5
Net lerding                                                  3.5    0.5      1.7   -1.3      0.3     0.2   -1.6   -3.1   -2.8   -2.5
OveralL fiscal balance (commitm. basis)                    -66.9  -62.1  -53.3   -52.9  -58.3  -57.3  -73.1   170.6  -127.9  -89.6
Change in arrears                                            6.0    5.1      1.5    11.9  -22.4      3.6     3.7  -17.3  -17.4   17.4
overall fiscal balance (cash basis)                        -60.9  -57.0  -51.8  -41.0  -80.7  -53.7  -69.4  -187.9  -145.3  -107.0
Firancing                                                  60.9   57.0    51.8   41.0    80.7   53.6   69.4  187.9   145.3  107.0
Dacestic financire                                         1.7   15.2   18.1       3.0    19.1   -3.1      1.8   -9.9  -31.8  -27.4
Banking system                                           4.6   -0.6      1.7     1.8   -1.0   -0.6       2.4   -2.2  -23.8  -18.7
Other                                                   -2.9    15.8    16.4     1.2   20.1   -2.5    -0.6   -7.7   -8.0   -8.7
External financirg                                       59.2   41.8   33.7    38.0    61.6    56.7   67.6   197.8  177.1  134.4
Grants                                                  40.3   26.3   76.3    20.0    37.0   34.3   39.3  103.0   74.6   62.0
Loan disbursenents                                      21.7   20.5   20.2    14.6   28.5   27.4    30.6  108.2   90.0   68.2
Amortization due                                         6.9    6.2   90.8       8.1     4.7     7.2     9.8    22.8    21.9   22.2
Anmrtization arrears                                     4.1     1.2   22.7    11.5  -37.4   -3.6        4.7  -20.1       0.0     0.0
Debt forgiveness                                         0.0    0.0      5.3     0.0     1.2     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Debt reschedcl irg                                       0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    37.0     5.8     2.8    14.7    4.0      0.0
Residual financirng gap                                 -0.0     0.0     0.0   -0.0      0.0   -0.0      0.0    14.8   30.4   26.4
Sources: 1987-91: IMF, Recent Eccacsnic Developmnets, various issues; 1992-96: IMF, PFP3 Working Tables, March 2, 1994.



ANNEX II
BURKINA FASO
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
STATUS OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN BURKINA FASO
(As of March 3, 1994)
Amount in US$ million
(less cancellations)
Fiscal                                      Undis-  Closing
Credit No.   Year        Purpose           IDA          bursed  Date
Twenty nine (29) Credits closed          227.76
15980-BUR   1985      Education III      21.60         3.08   03/31/94 (R)
16070-BUTR  1985      Health 1           26.60         6.55   07/31/94 (R)
18960-BUR   1988      Ag. Research        17.90        7.27   03/31/95 (R)
19790-BUR   1989'    Ag. Services        42.00        21.93    12/31/94
20670-BUR   1990      Urban               22.20       11.25   06/30/96
22290-BUR   1991      Environmental Mgmt. 16.50       13.19   12/31/98
22440-BUR   1991      Education IV        24.00       23.64   06/30/98
22810-BUR(s)1991      SAL I               80.00       41.35   06/30/94 (R)
22820-BUR   1991      Public Works & Emp. 20.00        3.57   06/30/95
23320-BUR(s)1992      Transport SECAL    66.00        50.80    12/31/96
23780-BUR   1992      Public Institutional   15.00    13.32   03/31/97
23810-BUR(s)1992      Ag. SECAL           28.00       20.32    12/31/94
24140-BUR   1993      Food Security        7.50        6.78   06/30/99
24720-BUR   1993      Private Sector Assis  7.00       7.03    12/31/97
25190-BUR   1993      Engineering Credit   4.25        4.13   06/30/96
TOTAL number of Credits = 15             398.55      234.22
TOTAL * * *                 626.31
of which repaid            13.99
TOTAL held by IDA           612.32
TOTAL undisbursed                        234.22
***Total approved, repayments and outstanding balance represent both active and inactive
credits.
(s)   indicates SAL/SECAL credits.
(R)   indicates formally revised closing date
Closing dates are based upon the Loan Department official data and are not taken from the Task
Budget file.



ANNE!X 111
BURKINA FASO
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
1.     Time taken to prepare program:               Two months
2.     Initial discussions with IDA:                January 10-14, 1994
3.     Appraisal mission':                          January 24 to February 4, 1994
4.     Negotiations:                                March 10, 1994
5.     Board presentation:                          March 31, 1994
6.     Planned date of effectiveness:               April 30, 1994
7.     Expected project completion:                 June 30, 1995
1     This program was appraised by a Sahelian Department mission consisting of Messrs./Mmes.
Olga Jonas (Sr. Economist and Mission Leader), Anne Doiz6 (Sr. Economist), Whitney Foster (Sr.
Country Officer), Denis Broun (Pharmacuticals Specialist, PHN), Salomon Samen (rade Economist),
Cadman Mills (Sr. Agricultural Economist), Albert Osei (Resident Representative), and Justin Baro and
Korka Diallo (Consultants, Burkina Resident Mission). Mr. Djamalddine Rouag (Sr. Education Specialist)
visited Burkina immediately before the appraisal mission to formulate measures in primary education. Mr.
Yves Genevier (Public Health Specialist) helped negotiate measures in the health sector. This memorandum
was written by Ms. Olga Jonas, with Ms. Felly Kaboyo assisting with the processing of the operation. Ms.
Katherine Marshall and Mr. Jean-Louis Sarbib are the Department Director and the Managing Division
Chief, respectively, for the operation, and Mr. Francois Laporte is the Lead Economist.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 13
(Translationfrom French Onginal)
BURKINA FASO
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PLANNING
Mr. Lewis T. Preston, President
The World Bank
Washington, DC
March 7, 1994
Subject: Statement of Economic and Social Development Policies
Dear Sir:
1. It is our honor to address to you this declaration of the economic and social development
policies which the Government of Burkina Faso has undertaken to implement. We have
recently prepared with the assistance of the staff of the Bretton Woods institutions our third
Policy Framework Paper, 1994-96, setting out the medium-term objectives for our program
of macroeconomic stabilization and structural reform. The objective of this letter is two-fold:
(i) to set out our program of reforms to be undertaken in 1994 which is fully consistent with
the objectives of the structural adjustment program supported by the World Bank under SAL
I (Cr. 2281-BUR); and (ii) to summarize the policies underpinning the medium-term
macroeconomic framework. We are convinced that a rigorous implementation of appropriate
measures to accompany the change in the parity of the franc CFA is necessary for the
resumption of more rapid economic growth and accelerated social and economic development.
We appreciate the efforts of the World Bank to mobilize additional support for our program
by explaining it to the donor community in the context of the Special Program of Assistance
(SPA), and we propose that the program outlined below provide the framework for future
World Bank assistance to the development efforts of the Government of Burkina Faso.
I. Introduction and Program Implementation During 1993
2.  In December 1992, the Government of Burkina Faso adopted a medium-term
macroeconomic adjustment and structural reform program covering the period 1993-95. The
principal objectives of this program were (i) to improve the competitiveness of the economy;
(ii) to increase its growth rate to 3-4 percent so as to achieve a sustained improvement in per
capita income; and (iii) to re-establish internal and external viability over the medium term.
To this end, the Government's strategy was based on withdrawing from participation in the



ANNEX TV
Page 2 of 13
industrial and commercial sectors and reallocating its limited resources towards human
resource development, maintenance of infrastructure, and support for private sector
development, especially in the key sectors of agriculture, livestock, and mining. Because of
the critical importance of human resource development, the Government proposed to expand
primary education by hiring 950 new teachers each year and to increase budgetary allocations
for materials and other operating costs of the primary education and health sectors. At the
same time, the Government sought to improve the incentives for private sector investment and
employment growth by liberalizing pricing and internal trade, improving regulation of the
labor market, and privatizing public enterprises, and restructuring the banking sector. To
restore competitiveness of domestic production, the structural reforms were accompanied by
internal adjustment measures, both to reduce costs in public enterprises, including in the cotton
sector, and to contain demand, especially public consumption, so as to limit inflation to 2.5
percent.
3.   To preserve the political consensus it had created in support of the adjustment progam,
the Govemment was concerned with limiting, to the extent possible, the adverse transitory
effects of the adjustment process, particularly on the most vulnerable segments of the
population. To this end, it undertook a program of employment creation through contracting
of public works to small labor-intensive enterprises by the Faso Baara agency. The program
was to be financed through the savings arising from the planned reduction of the fiscal
deficitl/ to 3 percent of GDP by 1995, down from 6 percent in 1992, and, more
importantly, from significant financial assistance to be provided by the donor community.
4.   The program adopted for 1993 and reflected in the 1993 budget included a series of
structural measures aimed at containing the fiscal deficit in the medium-term. To that end,
the salary scale was reduced by 10% as of January I in order to bring actual salary payments
(which had been frozen and therefore did not reflect the effect of staff advancement into higher
grades) in line with civil service regulations. Transfers to higher education students, which
constitute an excessive proportion of the overall education budget, were reduced. A value-
added tax was introduced to replace turnover taxes and a new import tariff structure was
adopted, providing for a simplified schedule and a reduced number of rate categories.
Adequate provisions were made in the budget to support the restructuring of the banldng and
cotton sectors.
5.   The overall outcome for 1993 was less favorable than expected. Real GDP growth was
weak, due both to the deepening crisis in some neighboring countries (see para. 8) and to a
16 percent decline in cotton production in response to successive reductions in the producer
price and the delays in paying farmers for their crop. The Government successfully contained
growth of the wage bill, fully in line with the agreed targets. By mid-1993, however, a
serious revenue shortfall was evident. Tax revenue for the year was 22 percent lower than
programmed, largely due to difficulties in the implementation of the VAT and the new customs
1/ On a commitment basis and excluding grants.



AMI
Page 3 of 13
tariff. The Government also did not take several revenue-enhancing measures foreseen to be
put in place in early 1993 under the program, including variable import levies on rice and
sugar (TSI) and a temporary tariff surcharge (TDP) to substitute for the elimination of
quantitative import restrictions. These measures were put in place only after a detailed review
of macroeconomic performance with Bank and IMF staff in October 1993. To compensate
pardy for the revenue shortfall, the Government also transferred CFAF 5.7 billion to the
Treasury from parafiscal funds held by state enterprises.  Because of delays in the
implementation of reforms, there was also a shortfall in disbursements of aid in support of the
adjustment program. The combined shortfall in revenue and in external budgetary support
could not be offset even after the postponement, to 1994, of much of the expenditures linked
to banking sector restructuring so that government payments arrears to domestic suppliers as
well as to external creditors increased during 1993.
6.  In contrast to the lack of progress in the overall fiscal position, and especially in revenue
mobilization, the Government was successful in implementing several key reforms in support
of private sector investment and employment growth. External trade liberalization was further
pursued with a reduction in the number of goods requiring special import authorization from
15 to 3, and the customs tariff was streamlined with the introduction of a new tariff schedule.
The tax system and the registration procedures for new businesses were simplified, and the
labor code was made more flexible. With support under the Agriculture SECAL, a
reorganization of the cotton sector was launched under a performance contract with SOFITEX,
and the role of OFNACER was limited to the management of the cereal security stocks,
thereby halting the losses it was accumulating. In the banldng sector, audits were completed
to establish the financial situation of banks slated for privafization, and initial steps were taken
to liquidate the BND-B. The restructuring of public enterprises was advanced. By the end
of 1993, thirteen enterprises had been privatized, six liquidated, and seven placed under
receivership. Under the Transport SECAL, works for routine road maintenance were carried
out, the liquidat'on of the airline Naganagani continued, and negotiations were initiated for the
privatization of the railroad company (SCFB) and bids for the privatization of urban transport
activities have been prepared. However, the study of the civil service retirement fund
(CARFO) remains to be undertaken, and the Government has not as yet defined the future role
of the CGP, the CSPPA, and SONABHY.
7.   The Government also made an effort to improve basic social services, by expanding the
provision of basic health care and education. An agency to import and distribute essential
generic drugs (CAMEG) was created, and the preparation of a health sector restructuring and
development program was undertaken. However, reforms needed to prepare program budgets
for primary education and health were delayed, and the resulting difficulties in personnel
management continued to hamper the expansion and quality of primary education, in
particular. In the health sector, decisions to re-deploy staff to serve a wider range of the
population were also delayed.



ANNLEXIV
Page 4 of 13
II. The Devaluation of the CFA Franc and the 1994 Program
8.   The Government is aware that the progress achieved so far under the economic reform
program is fragile, given the still insufficient competitiveness of the economy, the narrow base
for exports that are also affected by fluctuations in world market prices, and the weakness of
public and private savings and investment. Since the mid-1980s, Burkina's economy was
negatively affected by declining competitiveness of its exports and by the economic crisis in
the CFAF zone as a whole. This manifested itself, in particular, by lagging workers'
remittances from the Cote d'Ivoire where almost 3 million Burkinabe reside. The downward
deflationary spiral both impoverished the population of the zone and undermined its financial
institutions. The difficulties encountered in Burkina in 1993 brought to light the limits of a
strategy based solely on internal adjustment. For this reason, the authorities decided, together
with the other members of the West African Monetary Union (WAMU), to strengthen their
medium-term adjustment program by adjusting the parity of the CFA franc from CFAF 50 to
CFAF 100 per French franc, effective January 12, 1994.
9.   The use of the exchange rate as an instrument of macroeconomic policy should be seen
in the context of the Government's overall strategy. First, the Government remains
determined to ensure competitiveness primarily through structural reforms and appropriate
domestic macroeconomic policies. The change in parity of the CFA franc, therefore, is seen
as an exceptional measure to enhance and accelerate the structural adjustment process, which
remains the centerpiece of the Government's strategy. Second, the Government has decided
to accelerate its initial reform program, and at the same time to implement additional measures
which are deemed necessary to ensure the desired competitiveness. These measures concern
budget, wage, price, and credit policies for 1994 and aim to ensure that the benefits of the
change in parity will not be eroded by inflation. Immediately after the devaluation, the
Government started to implement well-targeted measures that would shield the most vulnerable
segments of the population from its short-term detrimental consequences. These measures
focused on limiting the increase in consumer prices, which will occur primarily during the first
six months of 1994. Third, taking advantage of the new macroeconomic framework put in
place after the devaluation, the Government will implement reforms to foster an accelerated
development of human resources by focussing, in particular, on key measures in primary
education and in the provision of medicines in support of improvement and wider access to
basic health services.
A. The macroeconomic stabilization and structural reform program for 1994
10. The objectives of the program for 1994 are: (i) to increase real GDP growth to at least
3.3 percent; (ii) to limit inflation (as measured by the CPI) to around 31 percent; and (iii) to
reduce the external current account deficit (excluding official grants) from US$445 million in
1993 to US$373 million in 1994. To achieve these objectives, the Government will implement
the following measures in 1994:



ANNEX a
Page 5 of 13
Government finances
11. In 1994 the Government will further structural reforms already in progress. To this end,
the Government has decided to implement supplementary measures in a revised budget that is
expected to be adopted in early March. On the basis of this budget, the overall deficit (on a
commitment basis, excluding grants) would reach CFAF 171 billion. The revised budget for
1994 includes new measures designed to simplify the tax system, to correct the weaknesses
encountered in the implementation of the tax reforms of 1993, and to increase tax recovery.
These measures include: (i) reducing the number of VAT rates from two to a single rate of
15 percent; (ii) eliminating VAT exemptions for some goods, including cement; (iii) reducing
the import duty rate for fertilizer, insecticides, and essential drugs; and (iv) replacing specific
taxes by ad valorem excise taxes. In addition, administrative fees and levies will be adjusted
for inflation during the year. Furthermore, the essential elements of the customs reform
introduced in 1993 in the framework of the project for establishing the West African Economic
and Monetary Union (WAEMU) will be maintained and implemented more decisively. At the
Customs Directorate, the clearing of merchandise will be improved, the processing of customs
declarations will be rationalized, customs control will be strengthened, the number of
exemptions will be reduced, and additional resources (both personnel and material) will be put
in place to ensure the efficiency of customs administration. The collection of direct taxes will
be strengthened by the creation of a unit--in the Tax Directorate--in charge of assessing and
collecting taxes owed by large enterprises, and by the effective use of a single taxpayer
identification number. Moreover, the preparation of regular customs statements providing
reliable data on imports, facilitated by the computerization of customs administration, will
allow for a more rigorous tax compliance.
12.  Special measures have been taken to cushion the impact of the devaluation on the cost
of importing petroleum products and basic consumer goods, so as to alleviate the burden on
the most vulnerable social groups. These measures will also facilitate streamlining customs
regulations. They include the elimination of the temporary tax on imported rice and sugar
(TCI), which was facilitated by the devaluation. The protection tax (TDP) will be maintained
on a provisional basis during 1994. However, the Government is committed to reducing the
rate of the TDP (currently at 30 percent) as of 1995, to a level that will not exceed the rate
of 10 percent that was originally planned for the third year, so as to ensure that this tax does
not adversely affect prices and the efficiency of domestic production. In addition, the
introduction of a single aed valorem tax on petroleum products (TUPP)l lowers the effective
taxation rate of these products by 33 percent. Revenue from petroleum products taxation
previously earmarked for the CGP will now be included in the budget. Taxation of kerosene
(an essential commodity) has been reduced so as to keep its retail price unchanged. The lower
taxation of this item, together with the eliminstion of the TCI, would result in a revenue loss
on the order of CFAF 3 billion; similarly, the elimination of the statistical tax on exports (4
percent) would offset to some degree higher revenues (estimated at CFAF 25 billion) resulting
I  The only tax on petroleum products apart from VAT and customs tariffs.



Page 6 of 13
from the change in parity and of the new single VAT rate (CFAF 1.6 billion). Taking into
account also revenue growth due to accelerating economic activity, tax revenues will increase
to CFAF 110 billion in 1994 (10.5 percent of GDP, compared with 9.3 percent in 1993).
With respect to nontax revenues, they will no longer benefit from exceptional transfers of
some 1 percent of GDP made in 1993, nor from the transfer of around CFAF 11 billion (1.3
percent of GDP) by CGP (part of which related to the transfer of extrabudgetary proceeds
from petroleum products taxation to be collected from now on by the Treasury through the
TUPP). Total budgetary revenue will reach CFAF 122 billion.
13. According to the revised budget, total expenditures and net lending in 1994 wil not
exceed CFAF 293 billion, and their composition will reflect the Government's objective to
shift resources away from consumption to investment, while maintaining adequate provisions
for the effective operation of the administration. In particular, taking into account an increase
in salaries ranging from 4 percent to 8 percent effective April 1, 1994, and a net recruitment
only for the priority sectors not exceeding 3 percent of the wage bill, the wage bill will
increase to CFAF 58.1 billion. It will be equivalent to 53 percent of tax revenues, down from
more than two thirds during 1992-93.2 Budget allocations for materials available to the health
and education sectors will go up by more than 20 percent in real terms,3 with smaller
increases in allocation for other sectors. The revised budget also contains an allocation of
CFAF 4 billion to meet the cost of exceptional subsidies aimed at protecting the most
vulnerable segments of the population (mostly to contain increases in school fees and the prices
of essential generic drugs, and to raise pensions of retired civil servants).
14. In contrast, SOFITEX will not receive any budgetary subsidies, in light of the expected
improvement in its financial position as a result of the devaluation. Instead, the repayment by
the Government of arrears to SOFrTEX on behalf of CSPPA, originally spread out over three
years, will now take place in two years, thereby improving SOFITEX's liquidity position. The
Government's investment expenditures are set to increase by almost 26 percent in real terms
compared with the initial budget; this will require a significant increase in budgetary
counterpart funds. Supplementary credits are allocated above all to labor-intensive public
works directed toward maintaining infrastructure, in line with the programs agreed with the
World Bank. Lastly, provisions are made in the revised budget for capital transfers (CFAF
19.9 billion and CFAF 2.0 billion, respectively) for bank and public enterprise restructuring,
of which CFAF 6.5 billion is earmarked to accommodate in part the cost of liquidating the
BND-B, pending completion of the ongoing assessment of the full cost of restructuring.
Should there be delays in the restructuring operations, the amounts mobilized for this purpose
will not be used for increasing other expenditures above the limits set in the revised budget.
2 During 1995-96, the nominal increase in the wage bill will not exceed 3 percent a year, and wil be devoted to the
staffing needs of the priority sectors.
This substantial increase (CFAF 1.6 bilion) reflects in part the budget allocations that are included in the budget for
the purpose of mitigating the social cost of the devaluation (CFAF 0.6 billion).



A-EX IV
Page 7 of 13
15. Budgetary procedures will be tightened so as to ensure that all government outlays are
undertaken in strict conformity with existing regulations and are properly accounted for. In
this respect, except for expenditures which the budget authorizes to be made without
commitment, no outlay will be made without prior commitment and all payments by the
Treasury for government operations will be duly recorded. In addition, to help achieve the
objectives stated in the revised budget, a quarterly treasury budget will be developed to serve
as a guiding instrument for the Government. The execution of this budget will be transmitted
on a monthly basis to the staff of the IMF and the World Bank, with whom consultations will
be undertaken whenever the results -- both in the area of revenues and of expenditures --
deviate from the established targets, with a view to agreeing on and implementing corrective
measures that may be required to keep the program on track.
Pricing policies
16. One of the Government's main concerns is to contain inflation in order to protect the
gains in competitiveness. To this end, it has decided to keep domestic demand under control
by limiting the increase in wages and salaries in the public sector to 4-8 percent, the minimum
wage (SMIG) to 10 percent, and by urging the private sector to moderate wage increases. The
Government also intends to limit as much as possible the impact of the increase in prices-of
imported basic consumer goods on the cost of living. In this regard, to counter the panic that
had taken hold of producers and consumers alike in the aftermath of the devaluation, the
Government re-establis.ied the system of price controls, and froze the prices for several basic
consumer goods at their pre-devaluation levels. Limited price increases for rice (23 percent)
and petroleum products (25-40 percent, excluding kerosene) have been announced. Since then,
price adjustments have been authorized for a number of goods, which reflect higher production
or import cost. Price controls on milk, sugar, and cement will be lifted in March 1994. With
the exception of essential generic drugs, rice, petroleum products, utility rates, and school
supplies, all remaining price controls will be abolished by April 30, 1994 (condition of
effectiveness of the Economic Recovery Credit).
17. To achieve its objective of moderating the increase in prices of basic consumer goods,
the Governnient has decided to reduce the level of their taxation as well as the levies
previously imposed by the price equalization fund (CGP). In this manner the price of
kerosene, whose widespread use by the rural population has helped the campaign against
deforestation, will remain unchanged for the next six months, while the cost of all other
petroleum products will increase by less than the price change implied by the devaluation. The
price of rice will not be raised any further during the first semester, taldng into account
existing stocks; subsequently, it will be revised upward in line with world market prices.
Public utility tariffs will also be increased in a manner that minimizes the impact on small
users, while safeguarding the financial situation of the public utility companies (ONATEL,
SONABEL, and ONEA); they will be periodically revised in line with costs, with due attention
given to stimulating productivity gains and to gradually reducing the need for budgetary
subsidies. The Government wil launch an aggressive public information campaign through



Page 8 of 13
the media to ensure that traders and consumers are aware of these measures, and that they will
fully cooperate in order to achieve the Government's objective of moderating price increases.
18. World market prices for cotton are much higher in local currency terms due to the
devaluation; this has enabled the authorities to raise the producer price for cotton to CFAF 112
per kg for the current crop season compared to CFAF 80 per kg which was previously
announced. This increase corresponds to an improvement of at least 10 percent in the real net
income of farmers, which should stimulate production as well as ensure the profitability of the
sector. Part of the undistributed windfall profits--currently estimated at CFAF 1-2 billion--will
finance a price stabilization fund for cotton as envisaged in the performance contract for
SOFITEX. Further price increases are possible for the 1994/95 crop, and will be announced
well before the start of the season, after consultation with the World Bank and taldng into
account the financial situation of the cotton sector. In case the world market price for cotton
is less favorable than expected, the producer prices will be appropriately adjusted, and
SOFITEX will also reduce other production costs. The price of paddy, which was increased
by 10 percent after the devaluation, will no longer be set through administrative decisions.
The price of other agricultural products will continue to be determined by the market.
Monetary and credit policy
19. The Government's main monetary policy objective in 1994 will be to control inflation,
while at the same time ensuring that adequate credit is provided to the productive sectors to
finance crops as well as investment and imports. The Cental Bank will therefore implement
a cautious credit policy consistent with the balance of payments objectives, relying primarily
on recently introduced indirect monetary policy instruments, based on money market auctions
and reserve requirements. It will no longer set credit ceilings for individual banks, nor will
it interfere with banks' credit allocation. Banks will continue to have access to the money
market where interest rates will be determined by market forces. In the framework of the
common monetary policy, the rediscount and minimum savings deposit rates were increased,
respectively, from 10.5 percent to 14.5 percent, and from 4.5 percent to 8 percent,
immediately following the devaluation; these rates will be adjusted according to price and
international reserve developments in the WAMU region. All other rates will be market-
determined.
Structural reforms in support of private sector development
20. The structural reforms envisaged are described in detail in the Policy Framework Paper
and are designed to ensure that the change in parity will have the most favorable impact on
the economy, particularly those pertaining to the liberalization of trade and of the regulatory
framework, so that the private sector will benefit from favorable conditions for its
development. Exporters in the mining, livestock, and agriculture sectors are expected to
respond to improved incentives provided by the devaluation, resulting in 9 percent growth in
the volume of exports in 1994. To improve the basis for sustained private sector growth,
commercial laws will be updated, as proposed under the ongoing SAL I operation, and the



ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 13
mining code will be revised with a view to promote investment and production in that sector.
With regards to the banking sector reform, also supported by the ongoing SAL I operation,
the Government will pursue ongoing negotiations for privatization of four banks and the final
liquidation of the BND-B. At the same time, special measures will be implemented. The
Government commits itself to offer for sale through public tenders in 1994 at least six
enterprises selected from a list of about 18 enterprises that will be submitted for approval to
the National Assembly as agreed under the World Bank-financed Private Sector Support
Project (Cr. 24720-BUR). The privatization of SONACOR will be completed, as proposed
under the Agriculture SECAL. The Government will define before September 15, 1994, the
role it intends for CGP to play, now that the CGP is no longer supporting the rice sector nor
managing the price equalization system for petroleum products. The Government will also
decide, before July 31, 1994, the fate of CSPPA, and prepare before November 30, 1994 an
action program to implement this decision. In order to control costs and thus sustain the
expected improvement in competitiveness, the Government has abolished the statistical tax on
exports, and has introduced a drawback mechanism for imported inputs used in the production
of export goods. Also, it will ensure that salary increases in public enterprises will not exceed
those in the civil service. Moreover, the reorganization and financial rehabilitation of key
public enterprises will be furthered.
B. Social policy measures and development of human resources
21. The program adopted by Burkina Faso should, over the medium term, increase
employment opportunities and real income of large segments of the population, and reduce
poverty. However, the devaluation will lead to some deterioration in the standard of living
in 1994, especially in urban areas. To protect the most disadvantaged social groups from this
decline, the Government adopted the following transitory measures: (1) a 6-month freeze of
the retail prices of kerosene and school supplies; (2) a limited increase in prices for certain
basic consumer goods through lower taxation (rice and petroleum products other than
kerosene); (3) the revision of utility rates (water and electricity) in such a way as to reflect
increased costs, while mitigating the impact on small users; (4) the stabilization of school fees
and the extension of the lending scheme for school books in primary schools; (5) the expansion
of labor-intensive public works and rehabilitation of infrastructure (construction of health
centers, schools, sewers, highway maintenance, etc.); and (6) the increased delivery of health
and basic education services made possible by substantially higher budget allocations for these
sectors. Except for the price freeze on kerosene, the cost of which will be absorbed by lower
proceeds from the single tax on petroleum products (rUPP), and the expansion of public
works, which will receive financial assistance from the World Bank and bilateral donors, these
measures will be financed either by correspondingly higher budget allocations for the social
sectors or by a reduction in the customs duties applicable to these products. Finally, the
minimum wage, which applies to the poorest unskdlled workers, will be increased by
10 percent on April 1, 1994.



ANEX IV
Page 10 of 13
22. At the same time, the Government has decided to increase the access of the population
to basic health services, especially to essential medicines and to primary education. To this
end, it will implement the following Priority Action Plan for Primary Education and Health:
Pdior*y Action Plan for 1994                      Dates
Objective: Promote pdmary education access and quality
(a) Provision of increased budgetary allocations to the Ministry of
Primary Education                                                  Revised 1994 budget
-for materials for ongoing programs (CFAF 824 million)             March 1994
-for textbook lending scheme, fee subsidy to poor cbildren
and feeding program (CFAF 1,860 million)
-for 1,400 additional teachers as specified in (c)(i)-(ii)
(CFAF 203 million)
(b) Agreement with the World Bank on procedures for hiring new teachers  March 1994
(c) Hiring of 2,350 new primary school teachers:
(i) for 300 classes presently closed for lack of teachers              March 1994
(ii) to replace 1,100 national service agents currently teaching        October 1994
(iii) 950 teachers planned under the ongoing program                     October 1994
(d) Contract with Faso Bau  for school construction and procurement of equipment  March 1994
(e) Workshops to reflect on how to accelerate expansion of primary education  April and June 1994
(0 Preparation of the opening of the 1994/95 school year                 May 1994
(g) Application of eligibility criteria and the adjustment of the level of scholarships
for higher education with a view toward reducing public expenditure on
scholarships in favor of expenditure on education                  1994
Objective: Improve primary health care and increase availabiity of 4/forfabke
essenal drugs (MEG)
(a) Increase budgetary allocations of the Ministry of Health             Revised 1994 budget
- for materials for ongoing programs (CFAF 2,800 million)
- for the initial stock of essential generic drugs
(CFAF 1,970 million)
- for training and implementation of cost recovery associated with the
introduction of MEG (CFAF 240 million already earmarked plus an
estimated 740 million to complete the implementation of the UNICEF
contract as defined in (b))
(b) Implement contract with UNICEF for supply of services necessauy for  Starfing in April
implementation and management of a system for distribution ard     1994
cost recovery of drugs in health facilities
(c) Establishment and publication of national price list for essential generic drugs    March 1994
(d) Signature of ministerial ordinances: (i) allowing pharmacists to operate branches  March 1994
and (ii) allowing pharmacists to substitute MEG for brand name drug
prescriptions
(e) Requirement that private phanmacists observe the above price list    As of May 1, 1994
(0 Abolition of profit margin system for medicines                       April 30, 1994



ANNEX TV
Page 11 of 13
C. Program monitoring
23. Performance in implementing the program described in paras. 8 to 22 will be evaluated
together with the World Bank during the review carried out for the release of the third tranche
of the ongoing SAL I operation, with the actions outlined in the Priority Action Plan (para.
22) constituting key measures for this review.  Monthly updates on the status of
implementation of the measures in the Prionity Action Plan will be submitted to the World
Bank. Should unforeseen difficulties arise, information will be transmitted to the World Bank
and consultation will take place to define appropriate corrective measures. A quarterly report
on program execution will also be transmitted. It will include a report on budget execution,
identifying expenditure for personnel, materials and current transfers for the ministries of
primary education and health, and will identify expenditure on didactic materials for primary
education, the textbook lending scheme, and the implementation of training associated with the
Bamako Initiative.
M. Macroeconomic Objectiy  an! Structural Adjustment PoU_cies fo 1994-96
24. The Government's objectives for the period 1994-96 are: (i) to achieve an average
annual growth rate of real GDP of 5 percent; (ii) to return to an annual rate of inflation of
4-5 percent by 1997, after an initial sharp increase in 1994 caused by the devaluation; and
(iii) to reduce the external current account deficit of the balance of payments (excluding
official transfers) from 16 percent of GDP in 1993 to 14.8 percent in 1996. This reduction
would be made possible by an average annual growth in the volume of exports--more
competitive as a result of the devaluation--of 10 percent, and a slowdown in the growth of
import volume to 1.6 percent per annum, which is expected to be the net result of the
combination of the contractionary effect of an increase in their cost and the expansionary effect
due to a rebound of economic activity and investment. After a decrease of 2.1 percent in 1994
owing to the anticipated reduction in domestic demand in real terms and the increase in import
substitutes, imports (particularly of consumption goods) will pick up as soon as the induced
growth effect dominates, without canceling the advantages of the substitution effect on local
production.
25. The strengthening of the structural adjustment process will result not only from the
endogenous effects of the devaluation, but, more important, from the vigorous implementation
of the accompanying measures described in Part II above. In particular, the competitiveness
of the economy (as measured by the depreciation of the real effective exchange rate, of the
order of 36 percent over the period 1994-96) will improve significantly, while protection
through the import tariff will be reduced. In the cotton sector, the devaluation will allow for
both an increase in the producer price--restoring the production incentives that had been
substantially eroded by the reduction initiated during the 1991/92 crop season--and an



ANNEX IV
Page 12 of 13
improved financial outlook for SOFlTEX, thereby accelerating its rehabilitation. 4
Furthermore, Burkinabe stockbreeders, whose exports to traditional markets have been hurt
by competition from cheaper imports, will improve their competitiveness and recapture
markets for their meat and leather production. More generally, enterprises in the export and
import-substitution sectors (gold, vegetables, fruits, tires, bicycles, and textiles) will increase
their profitability, which should stimulate investment and facilitate some of the planned
privatizations. In addition, the change in relative prices is expected to boost real income in
rural areas, where the propensity to import is lower than in cities, thereby slowing down
migratory flows towards urban areas as well as contributing to an improvement in the balance
of payments.
26. The Govemment is determined to pursue and strengthen its financial and structural
policies. Government savings--negative in 1994--will exceed 1 percent of GDP in 1996.
because the elasticity of tax revenues with respect to changes in the exchange rate exceeds that
of current expenditures. Moreover, an increased inflow of foreign financing will allow for
significant increases in real government investment, especially in human capital, and accelerate
repayment of domestic debt. This will give the Government some room for responding to the
needs of the priority sectors, through increasing the share of total expenditure devoted to
human and physical investment. In addition, domestic arrears will be eliminated, leading to
a restoration of the financial position of domestic suppliers, which in turn should result in a
larger share of credit being directed toward production. This development, in combination
with an increase in private savings made possible by the devaluation, and the rapid
restructuring of the banldng system to be facilitated by large capital transfers by the
Government, will permit a more sustained level of private sector investment.
27. The change in parity and implementation of accompanying measures wil have a
favorable impact on growth in the medium term. First, real GDP growth (on the order of
5 percent per annum during 1994-96) would exceed significantly the objective of 3-4 percent
growth retained in the initial program, owing to an acceleration of structural reforms. This
will translate into higher employment growth, mainly in rural areas, and better opportunities
to reduce poverty. Growth will be fostered by higher capacity utilization by small enterprises
in the agricultural, food-processing, livestock, crafts, and textile sectors. Subsequently, better
incentives and higher private savings--made possible by the demand-reducing measures
envisaged--will stimulate investment and also contribute to growth. Investment and domestic
savings relative to GDP, then, will increase from 22 and 2 percent in 1993 to 27 and almost
9 percent in 1996, respectively.
28. The envisaged policies will also ensure that the acceleration in inflation resulting from
higher import prices is temporary and limited to permitting a re-alignment of relative prices
sought by the change in the parity in the CFA franc. The Government is aware that increases
4An improvement in the financial situation of SOFITEX would eliminate the need for the
budget to subsidize the operations of the cotton sector as from the current crop year 1993/94.



Page 13 of 13
in domestic costs, especially of wages, must therefore be contained. The Government's
decisions to grant a limited increase in nominal salaries and to implement a restrictive financial
policy will keep inflation (as measured by the consumer price index) in check: after an initial
sharp increase in 1994, inflation will decline substantially during 1995-96, to again reach a
moderate level in 1997. The decline in real wages will lead to a fall in real household
consumption in 1994 of over 2 percent; however, real consumption should recover by 1995,
with the pickup of activity induced by the devaluation, and by 1996 it should reach a level that
would be more than 5 percent above that foreseen in the absence of adjustment.
29.  During the Dakar meeting of January 10-11, 1994, the WAMU Heads of State signed
the treaty converting the Monetary Union into an Economic and Monetary Union. This treaty
provided for the setting up of mechanisms aimed at ensuring the convergence of national
economic policies and their harmonization with the Union's monetary policy, and the
standardization of taxation and foreign trade rules for the countries concerned. These
mechanisms will join those that are already being used at the monetary level. Together, they
will constitute an asset for complying with the restrictive fiscal and monetary policies that are
necessary for the success of the adjustment program. The WAEMU economic area will also
make it possible to increase the region's economic productions through the expansion of
markets and economies of scale. This will enhance the growth of exports from the countries
in the Union. WAEMU will also give greater weight to countries in the subregion in their
economic relations with their partners.
Signed by
The Minister of Finance and Planning
Ousmane Ouedraogo



ANNEX V
Page 1 of 2
BURKINA FASO
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
ACTION MATRIX FOR 1994
L MACROECONOMIC POLICIES
Realignment of the exchange rate, fixed at 100 CFA francs for 1 French franc      January 12, 1994
PUBLIC FINANCE
TAXATION AND REVENUES
Set target for 1994 budgetary revenues at CFAF 122 billion                     March 2, 1994
Reduce number of VAT rates to a single rate of 15%                                1994
Eliminate VAT exemptions on certain goods, including cement                       1994
Replace specific taxes by ad valorem excise taxes                                 1994
Eliminate the statistical tax on exports                                          1994
Eliminate temporary import taxes on rice and on sugar                          January 17, 1994
Propose reduction in declining protective tax (TDP)                            Before June 30,
1994
Reclassify fertilizer and insecticides into lowest import tariff category         1994
Introduce import duty drawback for exporters                                   April 1994
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE
Set limit for expenditure on the government wage bill at CFAF 58.1 billion     March 2, 1994
Increase civil service salaries by 4% to 8% depending on grade                 As of April 1, 1994
Limit spending on secondary and higher education scholarships to CFAF 5.87 billion  1994
Provide adequate allocations for primary education and health                  March 2, 1994
Eliminate entire stock of external arrears of CFAF 6.6 billion                    1994
Reduce domestic arrears by at least CFAF 11 billion                               1994
Carry out routine road maintenance program with allocation of CFAF 4.4 billion    1994
Adequate provision of local counterpart funds for projects                        1994
Formulate a 3-year public investment program for 1995-97                       November 1994
MONETARY POLICY
Limit net increase in credit to Government to 2.4% of beginning of period money stock  1994
Limit increase in credit to the economy to 8.5%                                   1994
Increase the Central Bank discount rate from 10.5% to 14.5%                    January 18, 1994
PRICING AND WAGE POLICY
Set inflation target for 1994 at 31% (as measured by the CPI)                  Febnrary 28, 1994
Limit increase in the minimum wage rate to 10%                                 As of April 1, 1994
Increase tariffs to restore financial viability of public utilities               1994
Abolish price controls put in place after the January 12, 1994, devaluation    April 30, 1994
Increase the producer price of cotton by 40% to CFAF 112/kg                    January 18, 1994
Increase petroleum product prices by 25% -40% (except for kerosene)            January 18, 1994



ANNEX V
Page 2 of 2
I. STRUCTURAL POLICIES
Liquidation of the BND-B                                                          1994
Privatization of 4 commercial banks                                                1994
Complete privatization of six enterprises, including SONACOR, SCFB, and Regie X-9  1994
Proposal to Parliament to authorize divestiture from 18 public enterprises     March 1994
Revision of mining code and related legislation                                   1994
Revision of tasks of CBMP                                                         1994
Decision on the future role of CGP                                     Before Sept. 15, 1994
Decision on the future of CSPPA                                        Before JulY 31, 1994
Complete liquidation of OFNACER                                                   1994
Implement performance contract with SOFITEX                                       1994
Operational reforms and financial restructuring of Air Burkina                    1994
Complete liquidation of Naganagani                                                1994
III.  PRIORITY ACTION PLAN FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION AND HEALTH
Provision of increased budgetary allocations to the Ministry of Primary Education  March 2, 1994
-for materials for ongoing programs (CFAF 824 million)
-for textbook lending scheme, fee subsidy to poor children and feeding program (CFAF 1,860 million)
-for 1,400 additional teachers (CFAF 203 million)
Formulation of streamlined recruitment procedures for hiring new teachers      March 1994
Hiring of 2,350 new primary school teachers:
- for 300 classes presently closed for lack of teachers                        March 1994
- to replace 1,100 national service agents currently teaching                  October 1994
- 950 teachers planned under the ongoing program.                              October 1994
Contract with Faso Baara for school construction and procurement of school equipment    March 1994
Workshops to reflect on how to accelerate expansion of primary education       April and June 1994
Finalization of preparation of the opening of the 1994/95 school year          May 1994
Application of eligibility criteria and the adjustment of the level of scholarships
for higher education with a view toward reducing public expenditure on
scholarships in favor of expenditure on education                               1994
Increase budgetary allocations of the Ministry of Health                       March 2, 1994
-for materials for ongoing programs (CFAF 2,800 million)
- for the initial stock of essential generic drugs (CFAF 1,970 million)
- for training and implementation of cost recovery associated with the introduction
of MEG (CFAF 240 million already earmarked plus an estimated 740 million to complete
the implementation of the UNICEF contract)                                   August 1994
Implement contract with UNICEF for supply of services necessary for
implementation and management of a system for distribution and cost
recovery of drugs in health facilities                                       From April 1994
Establishment and publication of national price list for essential generic drugs  March 1994
Signature of ministerial ordinances: (i) allowing pharmacists to operate branches
and (ii) allowing pharmacists to substitute generics for brand name drug prescriptions    March 1994
Requirement that private pharmacists observe the above price list              As of May 1, 1994
Abolition of profit margin system for medicines                                April 30, 1994



