Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7164-YEM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 58.9 MILLION
To THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
October 7, 1997
6
Private Sector Development and Finance Group
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CDRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of September 30, 1997)
Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial (YR)
YR 100= US$0.76
US$1 = YR 132.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CACB         Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank
CBY          Central Bank of Yemen
CG           Consultative Group
COCA         Central Organization for Control and Auditing
CPI          Consumer Price Index
ERC          Economic Recovery Credit
ESAF         Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FSAC         Financial Sector Adjustnent Credit
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GIA          General Investment Authority
HB           Housing Bank
IBY          Industrial Bank of Yemen
IDA          International Development Association
GFC          International Finance Corporation
IMF          Intemational Monetary Fund
LIBOR        London Interbank Borrowing Rate
LOSP         Letter of Sectoral Policy
MOF          Ministry of Finance
NBY          National Bank of Yemen
PEs          Public Enterprises
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
SBA          Stand-by Arrangement
YBRD         Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:            Kemal Dervi-
Country Director:          Inder K. Sud
Sector Director:           Nemat Shafik
Task Manager:              Sarshar Khan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (FSAC)
Table of Contents
CREDIT SUMMARY .....................................                                         i
I.      INTRODUCTION .....................................1
II.     RECENT REFORMS AND PROSPECTS .................................    ..2
A.      Background ...............................................2
B.      Progress Toward Stabilization ................................................2
C.      Structural Reforms ...............................................3
D.      Macroeconomic Prospects and Financing Requirements ................................................3
E.      The Next Phase of Reforms and Sequencing ................................................4
F.      Linkages between the Banking Sector and the Economy ...............................................5
G.      Economic Prospects and the Evolving Role of the Banking Sector ................................5
III.  THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ...................                                      .6
A.      Structure .................................6
B.      Recent Financial Reforms ....7............................7
C.      Main Weaknesses in the System ................................8
D.      Public Sector Bank - Issues ....9............................9
E.      The Medium-Term Financial Reform Program ................................          10
IV.     BANKING SECTOR REFORMS - FIRST PHASE                      ..1.................................. 1
A.      Ensuring Prudent Banking ....................................                      11
B.      Institutional Improvements ....................................                    13
C.      Addressing Issues of Public Sector Banks ....................................      14
V.      IDA STRATEGY AND THE PROPOSED FSAC ....................................                     16
A.      IDA Strategy ......................................... 16
B.      The Proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC) ......................................... 16
C.      Rationale for IDA Involvement .........................................            19
D.      The Financing Package .........................................                    20
E.      Project Management and Implementation ............         ............................. 20
F.      Benefits and Risks .........................................                       21
VI.  RECOMMENDATION ................                                                                22
Annex 1: Letter of Sectoral Policy
Attachment: Matrix of Reform Measures
Annex 2: Macroeconomic Indicators and Projections
Annex 3: Financial Sector Indicators
Annex 4: Monitoring Indicators
Annex 5: Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Annex 6: Statement of IDA Credits
Annex 7: Statement of IFC Investments
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



I



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (FSAC)
Credit Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Yemen
Amount:             SDR58.9 million (US$80 million equivalent)
Terms:              Repayment in 40 years, including 10 years grace, on IDA terms
Objectives:         The proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC) is an essential
component of IDA's assistance to Yemen. The main objective of the
FSAC is to support reforms designed to increase the soundness of the
banking sector and strengthen its role in the mobilization of financial
resources.
Description:        The reform measures to be supported by the FSAC are designed to:
(i) improve the enabling legal and regulatory framework for the banking
sector; (ii) increase compliance with international standards of capital
adequacy and loan loss provisioning; (iii) strengthen the monitoring,
supervision, and enforcement functions of the Central Bank of Yemen;
(iv) improve the accounting and auditing standards of banks;
(v) improve the governance of banks and accountability of their boards
of directors; (vi) introduce measures to improve bank loan recovery;
(vii) undertake diagnostic reviews of public sector banks to enable the
Government to decide on their future; (viii) take urgent steps to reduce
the risk exposure of two main public sector banks and privatize one of
them; (ix) establish an Accounting Standards Boards to improve the
timeliness and quality of the financial statements of borrowers; and
(x) develop a legal and regulatory framework for financial leasing.
Benefits:           The main benefit of the reform program would be to significantly
improve the performance of the banking system and its role in
mobilizing savings and extending credit for productive activities. In
particular, the reform program would: (i) increase the soundness of the
banking system; (ii) ensure financial discipline within the banking
sector; (iii) facilitate improvements in banks' loan portfolios; (iv) reduce
the Government's operational role and increase competition in the
sector; and (v) strengthen accounting and auditing, which will also have
significant benefits in terms of the development of a sound corporate
sector and capital market.
Risks:              The main risk to the reform program is the country's limited
implementation capacity. The risk is being minimized through the
establishment of a Project Implementation Unit, continued IDA staff



support, and other assistance and training for building up the technical
capacity of the relevant institutions.
Disbursements:      The FSAC would disburse in two tranches. The first tranche of
SDR35.9 million (US$50 million equivalent) would be available for
disbursement upon Credit effectiveness. The remaining SDR23.0
million (US$30 million) would be available for disbursement as a
second tranche (scheduled for October 1998) on completion of agreed
actions.
Cofinancing:        None
Poverty Category:   Not Applicable
Environmental Category: "C"
Project Identification
Number:             43101



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT TO
THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC) to the Republic of Yemen (ROY) for SDR58.9
million (US$80 million equivalent). The Credit would be on IDA terms with 40 years maturity,
including a ten-year grace period. The Credit would be quick-disbursing and would provide
balance-of-payments and budgetary support. It would be disbursed in two tranches linked to
conditions specified for each tranche. The proceeds of the Credit would be used for financing
the foreign exchange costs of general imports, except for a short list of ineligible goods.
I. INTRODUCTION
2.    The proposed FSAC focuses on strengthening the currently fragile banking sector in
Yemen and improving the sector's service efficiency through a number of reform measures (see
Section IV below). It is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy discussed by the Board
of Directors in February, 1996, and has strong Government commitment. It is intended to
support the Government's financial sector reforms within the overall program of stabilization
and reforms initiated in 1995. It would complement and continue the support provided by IDA
under the Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) and by the IMF under a Stand-by Arrangement
(SBA).
3.    The SBA has stabilized the economy and largely restored business confidence, while
measures implemented under the ERC have liberalized the trade and investment regimes and
initiated privatization. Thus, a good basis for higher levels of investment and growth has been
laid down. There is also a good prospect for increased expatriate remittances, the main source of
savings in the short to medium term, as well as some improvement in domestic savings. In order
to realize this potential for mobilizing financial resources for investment, and to facilitate further
economic adjustment and privatization, it is essential at this stage that the Government
implement reforms to substantially upgrade the soundness and the perfornance of the financial
sector. The FSAC proposes to support reforms to achieve this end.
4.    The reform measures under the FSAC are designed to: (i) improve the enabling legal and
regulatory framework for the financial sector; (ii) increase compliance of banks with
international standards of capital adequacy and loan loss provisioning; (iii) strengthen the
monitoring, supervision, and enforcement functions of the Central Bank of Yemen (CBY);
(iv) improve the accounting and auditing standards of banks; (v) improve the governance of
banks and accountability of their boards of directors; (vi) introduce measures to improve bank
loan recovery; (vii) undertake diagnostic reviews of public sector banks to enable the
Government to decide on their future, and take immediate steps to privatize one of the two major
banks; (viii) take urgent steps to reduce the risk exposure of public sector banks; (ix) establish an
Accounting Standards Board to improve the timeliness and quality of the financial statements of
borrowers; and (x) develop a legal and regulatory framework for financial leasing.



2                                                 Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
II. RECENT REFORMS AND PROSPECTS
A. Background
5.    Following the unification of north and south Yemen in 1990, the Republic of Yemen
continued to face political uncertainty. This culminated in a military conflict in 1994. Since the
resolution of the conflict, the Government has focused on improving the country's economic
performance and has initiated several reform measures. In mid-1995, the Government began
discussing a stabilization program with the IMF, and a 15-month SBA for SDR 132.4 million
was approved to begin January 1996. At the same time, the Govemment sought support from
IDA for its structural reform program aimed at initiating and sustaining economic recovery. The
initial phase of the reform program, which was supported by the ERC (SDR 53.4 million), has
been successfully completed, and both tranches of the ERC have been disbursed.
B. Progress Toward Stabilization
6.    The SBA supported reforms in the areas of fiscal, monetary, and exchange rate policy.
As a result of strong actions taken by the Government in these areas, the economy largely
stabilized in 1996. In view of this good performance, the Government and the IMF plan to put in
place a medium-term reform program supported by an Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
(ESAF) during 1997.
7.    The fiscal deficit (cash basis) has been reduced from about 17 percent of GDP in 1994
to about 2.3 percent for 1996. This reduction resulted from the adoption of both revenue and
expenditure measures during 1995-96, as well as from improvement in the price of oil and a
large payment by an oil company to offset past underpayments. There was no government
borrowing from the banking system in 1996, and broad money supply is estimated to have
increased by only 11 percent, compared to about 20 percent the previous year. Monetarv policy
measures included an increase in benchmark interest rates to achieve positive real rates in 1996
and the successful introduction of auctions for three-month, six-month, and one-year (in early
1997) treasury bills.
8.    As a result of the strong fiscal and monetary measures, the inflation fate, measured by
the consumer price index, is estimated to have dropped from about 62 percent in 1995 to about
27 percent in 1996. The average core inflation rate (excluding administered price adjustments)
for 1996 is estimated to have been 12.3 percent. Preliminary data suggest that non-oil GDP grew
by 7.3 percent in 1995 and by 3.2 percent in 1996. The slower growth in 1996 was due largely to
the fact that the adjustment process was still in its early phase, and that investment levels,
affected by earlier uncertain political and economic conditions, had still to show a significant
increase. Currently, non-oil GDP is projected to grow by about 5.4 percent in 1997.
9.    The Government adopted a flexible exchange rate regime in early 1996 for all
transactions except budget accounting and customs valuation. The rates were unified in July
1996, and have been market-determined since then. The market rate has ranged between YR
129-132 per dollar in recent months. In December 1996, the country's foreign reserves stood at
US$937 million (equal to 4.9 months' imports). The reserves had increased to US$1.1 billion by
June 1997.



Financial Sector Adjustment Credit                                                3
C. Structural Reforms
10.    Starting in 1995, the Government undertook structural and policy reforms, supported by
the ERC, in the areas of external trade, privatization and public enterprises (PEs), and the
investment regime. These reforms have been satisfactorily implemented, as discussed below.
11.   Trade Policy. Substantial reforms in the trade policy regime were implemented during
1996. A simplified and less protective tariff structure was introduced. The earlier fifteen bands
with a maximum 200 percent tariff rate were replaced by four bands with a maximum 30 percent
tariff. The only exceptions were cigarettes and tobacco imports, with a 70 percent tariff. With a
few exceptions (for reasons of national security, religion, public health, and environmental
protection), import bans, export restrictions, and import licensing were abolished. Duty
exemptions for imports by PEs and by the Government were removed, with the exception of
existing contracts, international agreements, wheat and wheat flour, and crude oil for re-export.
All fees and surcharges on imports were eliminated, and excise tax rates for similar imported and
domestic goods harmonized.
12.   Privatization and Public Enterprise Reform. The Government initiated a
privatization program in January 1995. It has privatized eleven smaller PEs and is liquidating
another eight. It is now in the process of preparing the next phase of the program, which is
proposed to be supported by an IDA operation. To improve the oversight of the financial
performance of PEs, their financial monitoring was consolidated in the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) in 1996. In addition, the MOF adopted an action plan to phase out budgetary transfers to
PEs and to settle their mutual arrears.
13.   Regulatory Reform. A product-based negative list, which excluded new investors in
some industries from entitlement to incentives, was abolished, and the new policy of uniform
treatment of investors publicly announced. A study of the investment regime and the functions
and structure of the General Investrnent Authority (GIA), which administers investment
regulations and incentives, was completed, and its main recommendations for shifting GIA's
activities from licensing to investment promotion, information dissemination, and client support
are now being implemented.
14.   Social Protection. Despite strong fiscal adjustment measures, the 1996 budget
maintained expenditures on health and education at 1995 levels in terms of percentage of GDP,
as agreed under the ERC. In addition, a public works project designed to generate employment
while improving infrastructure and other services was approved and is being implemented.
Poverty is also being directly addressed through other Bank lending operations such as the Social
Fund project and the Southern Governorates project.
D. Macroeconomic Prospects and Financing Requirements
15.   Prospects. Macroeconomic projections are presented in Annex 2. These are based on
two key assumptions: (i) continued implementation of the stabilization and structural reform
program and increased access to bilateral donor financing, in line with the pledges received at
the Consultative Group (CG) meeting held in June 1997; and (ii) substantial debt relief through a
combination of write-offs and continued rescheduling on Naples terms. It is-assumed that all
bilateral debt would be eligible for restructuring. Specifically, for the five years 1996-2000, all
the arrears and debt service falling due are assumed to be annually restructured on Naples termns
(i.e., two-thirds forgiven and one-third rescheduled at the market interest rate). The first such
agreement, restructuring the debt service falling due through mid-1997, was reached at the Paris



4                                                  Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
Club in September 1996. At the end of five years, provided Yemen continues to implement the
reform program, a stock reduction is further assumed, whereby two-thirds of all the eligible
stock of debt would be forgiven and the remaining one-third would be rescheduled at the market
interest rate.
16.   While the Government's reform program is expected to elicit, with some lag, a
significant supply response, Yemen's medium-term macroeconomic prospects are closely tied to
*the prospects of the oil sector, which accounts for 94 percent of merchandise exports and 60
percent of the non-services GDP. With the coming on-stream of new fields, crude oil output is
expected to peak at about 365,000 barrels a day in 1997, or almost double the output in 1992.
Oil production is expected to level off thereafter.
17.   Overall, GDP is projected to grow by about 5.4 percent in 1997, increasing to about 6
percent per annum by the end of the decade, with the non-oil sector growing at about 7 percent
per annum in response to the ongoing reforms. Starting with a small base, non-oil exports are
projected to grow by 6 percent per annum in real terms during 1996-2000. Import elasticity with
respect to GDP is projected to be about 1 over the five-year period of 1996-2000. Workers'
remittances are projected to be around US$1.2 billion a year on average during 1996-2000. As a
result of these trends, the current account deficit, on an obligations basis, is expected to stabilize
at about 2 percent of GDP after 1998.
18.   Following debt restructuring, concessional new financing and export growth would
restore Yemen's external debt position to sustainable levels. After rescheduling, the debt/GDP
and the debt service/export ratios are projected to fall from around 184 percent and 39 percent in
1995, respectively, to about 105.6 percent and 15.1 percent by the year 2000.
19.   Financial Requirements. Yemen's total financing requirements, even with significant
debt relief and rescheduling along the lines discussed above, would be large. The projections
assume that in 1997 the arrears would be consolidated, and Yemen would have access to regular
(official current grants and long-term loans) financing of about US$260 million, increasing to
US$310 million by 2000. If the debt relief and regular financing assumed above is forthcoming,
this would still leave a net financing gap of US$120 million in 1997, growing to about US$400
million in 1999, and becoming negligible by the year 2002. The 1997 exceptional financing
requirements are expected to be met fully by the proposed IDA FSAC, the IMF ESAF resources,
and additional bilateral resources pledged at the recent CG meeting. The requirements for 1998-
99 are projected to be met by the continued availability of IMF and World Bank resources, as
well as resources from other bilateral donors.
E. The Next Phase of Reforms and Sequencing
20.    The Government plans to continue to extend and deepen the reforms in several areas.
The proposed ESAF would support macroeconomic and structural reforms that include, among
others, further fiscal (revenue enhancement, restructuring of public expenditures, and
elimination of subsidies) and monetary reforms, financial sector reforms, administrative reform,
accelerated privatization, selected sectoral policy reform, and social safety net measures.
Several of the structural reforms included under ESAF are being supported by IDA operations.
IDA is also supporting a substantial social safety net program through a Social Fund project.
IDA has also initiated discussions on possible support to an extended privatization program and
to civil service reform. As described above, the successful implementation of the initial phase of
economic reforms has stabilized the economy, restored business confidence, and laid down the
basis for increased investment and growth. However, inadequate mobilization of financial



Financial Sector Adjustment Credit                                                       5
resources and credit financing are lagging behind other reforms and hampering expansion of
economic activity. Thus, at this stage, the most urgent need is for substantial financial sector
reforms' to complement other ongoing reforms, as well as to facilitate deepening and expansion
of these reforms.
F. Linkages between the Banking Sector and the Economy
21.    The banking sector plays a relatively small role in the economy. Its linkages to the rest
of the economy (real sectors) are both narrow and weak. In 1996, the total investment of about
22.5 percent of GDP was financed by domestic savings amounting to 10.7 percent of GDP and
foreign savings2 amounting to 11.5 percent of GDP. Most of the foreign savings were
remittances from Yemenis working abroad. Only a small proportion of the total national savings
in Yemen is intermediated through the banking system compared to other, similar countries.
During 1991-95, the deposits-to-broad-money ratio was 35 percent (compared, for example, to
Jordan's ratio of 60 percent). Most of the deposits were being held as demand and short-term
deposits. This, combined with the lack of a well-developed pension system, meant that there
were almost no medium- and long-tern funds available to banks that could be lent for medium-
and long-term investments. Most lending, therefore, was, and continues to be, for short-terrn
trade finance and working capital.
22.     The ratio of bank loans to deposits (about 23 percent in 1996) is very low. The low
level of lending, and its skewed structure towards short-term loans, has been due to several
reasons. First, the political and economic uncertainties in recent years have kept investment and,
therefore, the demand for credit depressed. Second, domestic non-oil private investment, the
main source of demand for term credit from the domestic banking system, has been small,
amounting to only 3-4 percent of GDP. The remaining private investment, amounting to 9-12
percent of GDP, was in the oil sector and was financed directly from foreign sources. Third,
Yemenis have traditionally relied heavily on internal cash generation and on family or tribal
relations rather than commercial banks to finance their business activities. Fourth, the industrial
sector, in most countries the main user of terrn credit, is relatively small in Yemen, about 4
percent of GDP. Finally, and importantly, because of the difficulty of enforcing banking
contracts, banks have provided only limited access to credit for the less estabjished firms, low-
and middle-income families, and farmers. In sum, for various economic and non-economic
reasons, the extension of bank credit in Yemen has remained very constrained, and banks have
found it safer to place a significant part of their resources in Central Bank of Yemen (CBY)
deposits and, more recently, in treasury bills.
G. Economic Prospects and the Evolving Role of the Banking Sector
23.    The ongoing implementation of the stabilization and structural adjustment policies,
combined with an improvement in the political situation in Yemen, is likely to improve the
prospects for savings and investments and, therefore, growth. First, the trade policy reforms
already implemented would create a more rational and growth-oriented incentive structure. The
Government is also deregulating investment and transforming the GIA from a regulatory into an
Realizing this need, the Government requested that IDA carry out a review of the financial sector and make
recommendations for urgent implementation. This review was completed in November 1996 and circulated as a
Financial Sector Note. The recommendations of the Note were well received by the Government, which
requested IDA's support for the proposed reforms through an adjustment operation.
Defined as resource balance: net imports of goods and services and transfers.



6                                                     Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
investment promotion agency. A large number of PEs are scheduled to be privatized to expand
the private sector role in the economy. All these measures will increase investment
opportunities and demand for bank credit. Second, the reforms will also help increase total
national savings. Domestic savings are projected to remain at around 8 percent of GDP over the
next three to five vears. The reason is that the Government plans to eliminate subsidies
amounting to almost 12 percent of GDP. This would increase public savings but would decrease
priv ate savings due to an erosion in real income for at least some segments of the population.
Foreign savings, however, can be expected to show significant growth. During the last few
years. expatriate remittances have remained depressed on account of the return of a large number
of expatriates at the time of the Gulf crisis, macroeconomic and political instability in Yemen, a
fear of devaluation due to a seriously overvalued Rial, and negative real domestic interest rates.
The last three factors induced expatriates to hold part of their savings abroad. With the
implementation of a flexible exchange rate regime, the expected continued economic and
financial stability in the country, and a possible improvement in relationships with other
countries in the region, it is likely that both expatriate income and remitted savings would
increase significantly. The net result is expected to be an increase in total national (domestic and
expatriate) savings in Yemen.
24.    The FSAC reformns complement the savings/investment-enhancing reforms by improving
financial intermediation. Improved intermediation will encourage savers to hold an increased
proportion of their savings in the form of financial instruments with longer maturity than at
present. At the same time, the FSAC would support policies to encourage term lending by
financial institutions. These include policies to improve loan recovery, increase competition,
reduce costs of intermediation, increase the transparency of specialized institutions, and initiate
financial leasing. The interest rate regime has already been liberalized, and currently the country
has positive real interest rates. The FSAC reforms will, thus, lead to increased levels, as well as
efficiency, of investment through improved allocation of financial resources, thereby improving
the prospects for growth.
m. THE FINANCUIL SECTOR
A. Structure
25.    At present, Yemen has a rudimentary financial system. The system comprises the CBY,
twelve commercial banks, three specialized banks, money changers, insurance companies, and
pension funds.3 Most of the financial assets are held in the banking system, with the total assets
of the commercial banks amounting to YR 178 billion in 1995, representing 39 percent of GDP.
The two largest commercial banks are state owned: the Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (YBRD), 51 percent owned by the Government, had about YR 77 billion in total
assets in 1995, and the National Bank of Yemen (NBY), 100 percent owned by the Government,
had about YR 31 billion in total assets. Each of these banks has more than 30 branches. The
estimated assets of these two banks are about 40 percent of the assets of the whole banking
system. The Government also fully owns the three specialized banks, which have combined
assets of about YR 5 billion. These include the Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank
(CACB), the Industrial Bank of Yemen (IBY), and the Housing Bank (HB), which provide
financing for the respective sectors.
The country's pension and insurance systems are also very rudimentary and do not play an active role in the
intermediation of funds. The IMF reviewed the pension system in 1996 and made recommendations in the
context of providing an adequate social safety net.



Financial Sector Adjustment Credit                                                7
26.   Of the private commercial banks, four smaller, dynamic banks account for the majority
of lending by the banking system. These are Arab Bank, Banque Indosuez, the International
Bank of Yemen, and Yemen Commercial Bank. Together, they account for about 40 percent of
the banking system's assets. The Arab Bank has six branches and operates as a branch of The
Arab Bank Ltd. (incorporated in Jordan). Indosuez, the oldest operating foreign bank in Yemen,
operates as a branch of Indosuez (a subsidiary of the Credit Agricole Group, France). Core
shareholdings of Yemen Commercial Bank and the International Bank of Yemen are also held by
foreign investors. Three private Islamic banks (which are commercial banks) were established in
early 1996. In Yemen, the ratio of bank loans to total deposits and the ratio of total loans to GDP
are relatively low compared to other countries at a similar level of development.
B. Recent Financial Reforms
27.    With the implementation of the macroeconomic reforms discussed above, the
environment for mobilizing deposits and increased bank lending has become more favorable.
Lending rates have been fully liberalized, and preferential or priority lending to selected sectors
and regions has been abolished. Interest rates on loans are now positive in real terms.
28.   Lending rates were liberalized in July 1995. At the same time, the CBY introduced
minimum interest rates for deposits for the purpose of mobilizing deposits and controlling
inflation. The minimum six-month deposit rate was set at 21 percent. Reflecting this change in
deposit rates, the banks increased short-term lending rates from 17 percent to between 25 and 32
percent, depending on the creditworthiness of the borrower. However, during the second half of
1995, lending rates were still negative in real terms since the core inflation rate was 48 percent.
As such, the six-month deposit rate was increased to 27 percent, and short-term lending rates
went up to 30 to 37 percent.
29.    By June 1996, the core inflation rate had dropped to 11.1 percent, and the deposit and
lending rates became positive in real terms. Therefore, in December 1996, the CBY lowered the
minimum six-month deposit rate to 21 percent, and banks in turn lowered their lending rates by
five percentage points.
30.   In May 1997, in view of the stabilization of the core inflation to less than 10 percent and
continued stabilization of the exchange rate, the CBY further lowered the minimum deposit rate
to 12 percent and authorized banks to lend in foreign currency and to accept foreign currency
deposits as collateral. In addition, the CBY freed up bank fees and service charges. Although it
is still too early to see the full impact of these measures, an immediate result was a drop in short-
term lending rates to 22 percent. At the new interest rates for Rial loans, there should also be
more demand for short- and medium-term credit.
31.   To reduce banks' effective cost of resources, in December 1996 the CBY lowered the
reserve requirement from 25 percent to 15 percent on both Rial and hard currency deposits, with
a remuneration of 5 percent on Rial reserves, and LIBOR-less-50 basis points on hard currency
reserves. The lowering of the reserve requirement and the remuneration of reserves should lead
to lower intermediation costs for lenders and, thus, enhance intermediation.
32.   The CBY has mopped up most of the liquidity resulting from this reform through regular
auctions of three- and six-month treasury bills, which were successfully developed in 1996. In
1997, the CBY abolished its remaining term deposit facility (one-year facility) available to banks
and issued, for the first time, one-year treasury bills. The financial costs of these measures have
been incorporated into the 1997 budget. The Government uses the proceeds of auctions to repay



8                                                    Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
its debt to the CBY. Since the CBY has gained substantial experience with treasury bill auctions,
and commercial banks prefer to have more frequent auctions in order to better manage their
liquidity, the CBY moved to biweekly auctions in March 1997. The CBY has also adopted a
program for developing its capacity for moving to indirect monetary control operations.
33.    The reform measures have had a positive impact on savings mobilization, and there has
been a significant shift in the structure of deposits from hard currency deposits into Rial deposits
and from demand deposits to six-month and one-year deposits. Total deposits have grown at a
higher rate than broad money. However, after the increase in lending rates starting in late 1995,
loans and advances outstanding at the four main private banks declined, as the largest clients in
the banking system significantly reduced their borrowing. This is expected to be reversed now
that interest rates have dropped, as discussed above. In the next few years, with the stabilization
of the inflation rate and a significant drop in nominal and real interest rates, there should be good
potential for financing increased investment in the economy and, thus, raising the total lending of
banks. However, to realize this potential, several immediate issues in the banking sector need to
be addressed, as discussed below.
C. Main Weaknesses in the System
34.   Inadequacy of Capital. The banking system is inadequately capitalized. Most of the
public sector banks have not yet met the new standards of loan classification and provisioning
and would be technically insolvent. The financial positions of the four largest private banks
(Indosuez, Arab Bank, International Bank of Yemen, and Yemen Commercial Bank) appear to
be significantly better than those of the public banks, since they have set aside larger provisions
and reserves over the last few years. Even these banks, however, are at some financial risk due
to the high concentration of their lending and currency mismatches in assets and liabilities.
35.    These and other excessive risks indicate lack of sufficient technical expertise in the
banks, lax management, poor credit control, and weak supervision. Hence, the issues of proper
governance of banks and the accountability of their directors and senior managers need to be
addressed immediately. At the same time, the CBY needs to strengthen its capacity to
adequately supervise the banks and to enforce the relevant legal provisions.
36.    Difficulties in Loan Recovery. According to on-site examinations in 1996, 32 percent
of loans, advances, and other credits were considered bad debts, and require 100 percent
provisioning for probable loss. The poor quality of the portfolios of YBRD, the medium-sized
private commercial banks, and the Industrial Bank of Yemen (IBY) is due mainly to the inability
of banks to enforce loan contracts. However, higher interest rates in 1996 also increased the debt
service burden of borrowers and may have contributed to the increased incidence of default. In
general, banks report that the judicial system is slow, unreliable, and tends to be biased in favor
of the debtor. Certain clients intentionally do not repay debts even if they have the capacity to
do so, because it does not entail any penalty to their business operations or to themselves. In the
past, banks have rarely been able to seize collateral except through informal, out-of-court
arrangements. As a result of poor loan recovery, banks tend to charge a large margin to cover
their higher risk, and to limit their lending to certain types of activities and larger clients.
37.   Inadequate Legal and Regulatory Framework. An appropriate tegal and regulatory
framework is essential to increase the soundness of the financial sector. Although the existing
Banking Law contains most elements of a modem banking law, it needs to be modified to
enhance the CBY's powers to bring banks into compliance and to foster good bank governance.
For example, the Law needs to provide for: (i) increased capital requirements; (ii) the CBY's



Financial Sector Adjustment Credit                                                   9
power to take early corrective action for any violation of the Law and regulations; (iii) exclusion
of an offending manager/director from a bank; (iv) minimum qualifications for managers/
directors; and (v) in case of non-compliance within a certain period, the appointment of an
advisor/liquidator for the bank. In addition, the Law needs to be expanded to cover the
development of several key regulations relating to accounting, annual bank audits, internal
controls, and credit risk management.
38.    Tax Disincentive for Provisioning. In 1996 banks set aside substantial parts of their
income as provisions to meet the new standards. Provisions, however, are not currently
deductible in the calculation of taxable income. Hence, the banks in the worst financial position
have had to pay taxes on a misstated level of income, with the net effect of decapitalizing
themselves.
39.    Weak Accounting and Auditing. The accounting and auditing functions are not well
developed in Yemen. As a result, there is a lack of reliable financial information on private or
public enterprises. This limits banks' capacity to assess creditworthiness based on analyses of
cash-flow and balance sheets, and they tend to rely mostly on collateral and the integrity of the
borrower as known to the bank. This weakness, combined with the poor enforcement of
contracts discussed above, leads to a high incidence of defaults and poor recovery of loans.
40.    Low Confidence in the Banking System. In the past, the above-mentioned weaknesses
contributed to generally low confidence in the banking system. This may have made the public
reluctant to place their savings in banks, and, thus, may have resulted in large amounts of cash
being held outside banks. Even some banks express reluctance to lend to other banks, which
hinders the development of the interbank market.
D. Public Sector Banks - Issues
41.    As stated above, Yemen has two large public sector commercial banks, NBY (wholly
Government owned) and YBRD (majority holding by the Government). These banks share some
common features: they have large branch networks; they mobilize a majority of the deposits of
the banking system, but their loan portfolios are relatively small; their remaining Rial funds are
on interest-bearing deposit with the CBY or in treasury bills; their dollar funds are held with
correspondent banks; they face budgeting and staffing constraints since the MOF controls their
budgets and civil service rules are applied to their personnel management; and they have lost
most of their best staff to private financial institutions due to large salary disparities. There are,
however, some dissimilarities and resultant issues, as described in the following paragraphs.
42.    The National Bank of Yemen. NBY has a relatively small staff and its operations are
concentrated in southern Yemen. In 1995 its loan portfolio was only 13 percent of its total
assets. About 75 percent of the loan portfolio was concentrated in PEs in the south, most of
which are now non-operational. The CBY estimates that in 1996 NBY had non-performing
loans of YR 1.6 billion, all of which are bad debts. Its provisions and capital do not meet the
new CBY requirements. The Government plans to privatize this bank in the near future. This
would require restructuring of its portfolio (largely through the planned assumption of PE debts
by the Government), and also a diagnostic review (special audit)4 to verify its assets and
4
The diagnostic reviews of the two banks would go far beyond a regular audit in assessing: (a) the loan portfolio
quality and the provisioning level according to a specific and strict methodology (classification and provisioning
standards, level of coverage, focus on insider lending, etc.); (b) corporate governance; (c) internal control and



10                                                        Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
liabilities, assess the cost of the clean-up of PE debts to the Government, and provide adequate
financial disclosure for potential buyers. In the meantime, some urgent measures would need to
be adopted to improve the bank's governance and performance.
43.    Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development. YBRD is a much bigger bank
than NBY in terms of liabilities, assets, and staff. Three-fourths of its loans (about YR 9.6
billion in 1996) are to the private sector. YR 4.2 billion of the loans (1996) are.estimated to be
bad debts, about half of them to PEs. The bank also has a large credit exposure to insiders. Due
to its past defaults in payments to foreign banks, it is not considered creditworthy outside the
country and has to provide 50-100 percent cover on letters of credit. It has about YR 2.0 billion
worth of claims against private sector enterprises pending in regular courts. The bank plans to
shift these cases to the newly established special courts to receive some early relief. In addition,
as part of its program to settle the debts and mutual arrears of PEs, the Government has agreed to
issue 1 0-year Government securities in exchange for its portfolio of PEs' NPLs - in effect
assuming the bad PE debts held by YBRD.5 Although the combined effect of these two
measures would be to improve the financial position of the bank, this would take time, and even
then the bank may not be viable. The Government, therefore, needs to have a good diagnostic
review6 of the bank to enable it to prepare a plan for restructuring and privatization/liquidation of
the bank. In the immediate future, however, the Government needs to take urgent steps to reduce
the bank's risk exposure, improve its governance, and limit its operations.
44.    Specialized Banks. The three specialized banks, CACB, IBY, and HB, have relatively
small operations, cater to particular sectors, and receive privileges or subsidies. Their subsidies
appear to reach a very select group of households, farmers, and enterprises, and it is not clear
whether these reach their intended clients. Although the weight of these banks in the economy
and the banking system is relatively small and therefore the distortions created by their privileges
have a small impact, the Government plans to examine their performance and the rationale for
continuing their present role and operations.
45.    It appears that these banks have not been properly audited over the last five years. The
Central Organization for Control and Auditing (COCA) has been performing their audits, but it
does not have sufficient professional capacity to audit banks; furthermore, it applies its own
accounting standards, which are not appropriate for banks. As such, it is only through special
audits of the banks (including an assessment of the adequacy of their provisions) that the
Government would have adequate information on which to base its decisions on the future of
these banks.
E. The Medium-Term Financial Reform Program
46.    In view of the importance of the financial sector to overall development of the country
and of the various issues facing the sector, the Government has developed and adopted a
medium-term financial sector reform program. This program is an integral part of the
risk management procedures (credit, liquidity, foreign currency exposure, etc.); and (d), for YBRD, options for
restructuring/privatization.
The Government is already taking steps (agreed under the ERC) to more closely monitor the finances of PEs and
prevent future loan defaults.
6   Regular audits in the past have failed to provide an accurate picture of YBRD's financial position. There has
been no assessment of the quality of the bank's loan portfolio. The audits also did not express any qualification
about the financial statements of the bank, which, on subsequent review, did not appear to be accurate.



Financial Sector Adjustment Credit                                              11
Government's overall stabilization and structural reform effort. The main objectives of the
program are to: (i) enhance the effectiveness of monetary policy; (ii) increase the financial
soundness of the banking system; (iii) expand and improve the intermediary role of the banking
system: (iv) foster the development of financial institutions and instruments; and (v) strengthen
the capacity of the CBY, especially in the areas of prudential supervision and monetary
management. The first phase of the medium-term program to be supported by the FSAC is
described below and in the Government's Letter of Sectoral Policy (LOSP) attached as Annex 1.
The next phase of the program would extend and deepen the first phase reforms by: eliminating
thie minimum benchmark deposit rate; further reducing the level and cost of reserve
requirements; increasing competition in the sector; adopting an indirect system of monetary
control; developing interbank market activities; improving the functioning of the judicial system
to increase loan recovery, and developing institutional arrangements for a capital market (see
Annex I for more details.)
IV. BANKING SECTOR REFORMS - FIRST PHASE
47.   The Government, in consultation with IDA staff, has prepared the current phase of
financial sector reforns to be supported by the proposed FSAC. These reforms are presented in
the LOSP and the reform matrix attached to it (Annex 1). The matrix presents specific reform
measures, the expected impact of each measure, and the implementation schedule. The
following paragraphs discuss the proposed measures in detail.
A. Ensuring Prudent Banking
48.   In July 1996, with the establishment of the new loan loss provisioning guidelines and
capital adequacy standards, the CBY took a significant step toward creating greater transparency
and increasing financial soundness of banks. However, the following additional actions are
needed to improve bank compliance with the minimum prudential standards.
49.    Amendments to the Banking Law. Although the CBY has broad powers to monitor
banks and to enforce the Banking Law and regulations, the Law needs to be amended to specify
preventive and remedial actions (some discretionary and some mandatory) tQ be taken by the
CBY to deal with deteriorating or problem banks. Article 8 of the Banking Law empowers the
CBY to withdraw the license of a bank not in compliance with the Law. However, the proposed
amendments, agreed with IDA, would grant the CBY the right and, in certain cases, oblige it to
take other less stringent actions before withdrawing a license.
50.    The proposed amendments would incorporate several provisions in the Law. They
would: (i) give to the CBY the power to require a bank to take specified actions within a given
time schedule and limit the level of activity of a bank; (ii) require the CBY to take mandatory
actions for certain serious infractions of the Law and regulations, which would be commensurate
with the severity of an infraction; and (iii) increase the size of fines for violating the Law, as well
as authorize the CBY to impose fines for breaches of regulations. These provisions would make
the CBY fully responsible for acting in a timely manner, deter banks from operating contrary to
the Law and regulations, and insulate the CBY from outside interference. Another amendment
would require the CBY to approve directors or managers of a bank, based on specified criteria,
and give it a right to withdraw its approval for reasonable cause. Under the proposed
amendments, directors' individual liability for malfeasance would extend to the CBY and to
depositors, in addition to bank shareholders as currently provided for in the Company Law.
Thus, for example, the CBY could seek to recover its costs and other damages resulting from
malfeasance by a bank's board or its members.



12                                                     Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
51.    Banking Regulations. As mentioned earlier, in 1996 the CBY issued two important
prudential regulations, one on loan classification and loan loss provisioning standards and the
second on capital adequacy (which was subsequently amended). The loan classification and loan
loss provisioning regulation reflects current international practice. The amended capital
adequacy regulation, which requires that all banks meet an 8 percent minimum capital-to-risk-
weighted-asset ratio, conforms with the Basle Agreement. To enhance the reliability and
accuracy of financial information reported to the CBY and to banks' boards of directors, the
CBY has recently issued regulations on: external auditing; internal controls; credit risk
management; and bank liquidity.7 A regulation on credit risk concentration and insider lending
is to be issued by August 31, 1998. In addition, the loan classification and provision regulation
and the foreign exchange risk regulation are to be amended.
52.    In a sound regulatory framework for banking supervision, there needs to be a strong
emphasis on governance - a clear definition of the responsibilities and accountability of directors
and managers. For this reason, the most important proposed modification to the Law is the
introduction of a provision to hold directors individually accountable for properly carrying out
their duties, which includes ensuring compliance of a bank with the Law and CBY regulations.
This provision should help improve bank governance and reduce the level of excessive risk-
taking in the system.
53.    In July 1996, the CBY raised the minimum capital requirement in absolute terns from
YR 250 million to YR 500 million to be met by end-1997, and YR 1.0 billion by end-1999.
With projected inflation rates, this will be slightly lower than the minimum capital requirement
imposed, for example, by the European Union. It is anticipated that all private commercial
banks would be able to meet these standards.
54.    Strengthening CBY's Supervision Capacity. In the past, the enforcement capacity of
the CBY was impaired by lack of adequate staff and training. CBY salaries eroded in real terms,
particularly in the last five years, which made it exceptionally difficult for the CBY to hire and
keep good staff. The CBY has recently adopted a plan for a phased increase in CBY salary
scales, and the first increase, in the form of a salary supplement, has been implemented effective
June of 1997. The CBY is also in the process of recruiting an additional 12-15 bilingual staff to
strengthen the supervision department. The CBY has adopted a medium-terrm development
program to strengthen bank supervision, which, in addition to the phased salary increase,
includes components on: (i) recruitment and human resource development; (ii) bank licensing;
(iii) on-site examination; (iv) off-site supervision; (v) treatment of problem banks; and (vi) the
purchase of computers. In particular, by June 1999 the CBY would substantially implement a
program for strengthening on-site examination, including: (i) an updated schedule for on-site
examinations, with a target of examining all banks every year; (ii) drafting of an examination
manual; and (iii) design and implementation of a bank rating system. These reforms would
ensure effective implementation of the regulatory framework. In particular, enhancing the
supervision capacity of the CBY8 should lead to earlier detection and resolution of problem
banks, as well as to improved performance.
7   Since the current Banking Law sets the level of liquidity, the CBY was constrained when it revised the liquidity
ratio. After the new Banking Law is adopted, the CBY plans to revise the regulation,iredefine the method of
calculating the liquidity ratio, and reset the level of the ratio. Thereafter, the CBY may modify the ratio through
regulation, as and when it becomes necessary.
Under IMF technical assistance, a long-term expert from the Central Bank of Jordan has been placed with the
CBY to advise on supervision. He would also be able to assist the CBY in implementing the development plan.



Financial Sector Adjustment Credit                                             13
55.   Compliance of Private Banks with Capital and Provisioning Requirements. The
financial position of the four main private banks is significantly better than that of the public
banks. Based on the findings of CBY inspections, these banks have already met, or could meet,
the minimum standards for provisioning required under the new regulation. Less information is
available on the smaller private banks. As part of the reforms, the CBY will agree on individual
action plans for recapitalization and/or provisioning of nonperforming loans with any bank that
fails to comply with the existing regulations. In addition, the CBY, depending on the degree of
non-compliance with regulations or the Banking Law, will take other appropriate steps in
accordance with the proposed amendments to the Law.
56.   Changing the Tax Treatment of Provisions. Currently, loan loss provisions made by
banks are not deductible from income for tax purposes. Losses that occur in the course of
business operations should normally be deductible from income. The Cabinet has, therefore,
approved an amendment to the tax law. When a specific loan loss provision, except for an
insider loan, is recognized as necessary by the CBY, it would be considered an appropriate
measure of probable loss for tax purposes and deducted from taxable income. If a loan is
eventually repaid and the loss is not in fact incurred, the relevant provision would be reversed
and treated as income and taxed at that time.
B. Institutional Improvements
57.   Developing the Reporting System for Bad Debts. The CBY has enhanced its database
on loans extended by the banking system. The CBY has had in place a reporting system for all
loans exceeding YR 500,000 based on monthly data submitted by banks. The CBY now requires
that all banks submit, on a monthly basis, the names of clients with credits greater than YR 10
million outstanding, whose payments are past due for more than 180 days, or where overdrafts
outstanding are in excess of prudential limits, according to the CBY categorization for doubtful
debts. Banks are required to request information on individual clients from the CBY when
extending (above a certain minimum) new loans or increasing overdraft facilities to them, and
banks are forbidden to extend new loans to clients with doubtful debts. This system should
provide a strong incentive for borrowers to pay their debts in a more timely manner. In cases in
which a client's cash position is seriously deteriorating, such a policy will either prevent
additional lending to borrowers that are not creditworthy, or encourage clients to reach a
rescheduling agreement. In addition, the CBY will retain historical data. Such a system will
also encourage enterprises, particularly medium-sized enterprises, to build credit histories.
58.   Improving Bank Loan Recovery. As discussed above, one of the reasons for the weak
portfolios of banks is that they are unable to enforce their loan contracts through the current
judicial system. This has seriously affected the level of intermediation, since banks try to limit
their credit risk through (i) being selective about the activities to be financed, (ii) limiting their
lending activities to a few known clients, and (iii) charging a higher margin.
59.   As agreed with IDA, in order to improve the above situation and to encourage a higher
level of intermediation, reforms are being undertaken at several levels. First, IDA is providing
technical assistance under an Institutional Development Fund (IDF) grant for improving the
judicial system over the long term. Second, the Government has recently established special
courts to provide speedy adjudication for banking contracts. Third, as discussed above, the
Government will improve the system for reporting bank debts to the CBY, upgrade the auditing
and financial reporting of banks, maintain a credit-risk reporting system in the CBY, and provide
for penalties in the form of denial of credit to defaulters. These last measures should prove to be
very effective in providing an early warning system to both banks and the CBY, encouraging



14                                                 Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
banks to improve their portfolio and risk management, limiting the banking system's exposure to
high-risk loans, and, in particular, encouraging clients to remain in good standing under threat of
financial repercussions.
60.   Lending against Cash Flow versus Collateral. Yemeni financial institutions also need
to develop expertise to adequately assess the technical, financial, and economic viability of
investments. Such expertise would enable them to lend on the basis of the analysis of cash flow
and balance sheets, and not just on the basis of collateral or personal reputation and guarantees.
In this regard, the Banking Institute, in cooperation with other international organizations andlor
the Arab Banking Institute, is planning to sponsor training in commercial banking, which is
proposed to be financed by the European Union.
61.   Improving Accounting and Auditing. The analysis of cash flows and balance sheets,
in particular for making loans to existing companies, depends on the availability of timely and
accurate financial statements and on adequate disclosure. In Yemen, there is currently a lack of
transparency and reliability in the financial accounts of enterprises. Based on the findings of a
recent study by a major international accounting firm, financial reporting and auditing standards
in Yemen need to be upgraded to make them consistent with international standards. Toward
this end, an Accounting Standards Board will be set up, by August 31, 1998, to establish and
enforce new standards.
62.   Introducing Financial Leasing. While the necessary improvements in the judicial
system are being made, financial institutions need to minimize their credit risk by developing
other systems and instruments to lower the default risk. One such instrument is financial leasing.
The proposed amendments to the Banking Law, possibly supplemented by a law on Leasing and
Secured Financing, will allow banks (as well as other entities) to engage in financial leasing,
which would facilitate medium-term financing while minimizing credit risk. Such leases will be
appropriate for businesses that require standardized equipment, which is often the case with
small- and medium-sized businesses. Since the concerned bank has the ownership of the
equipment, and hence the ability to seize and liquidate it relatively quickly, the risk is lower than
if the bank had extended a loan secured by the equipment. An added benefit of this approach is
that some forms of leasing appear to be consistent with the Sharia (Islamic) law.
C. Addressing Issues of Public Sector Banks
63.   Public Commercial Banks. As discussed earlier, the two large public banks, NBY and
YBRD, are in a very weak financial position and need to be restructured and/or privatized.
Although unaudited financial data are available for these banks, to fully understand their
financial position and to prepare them for restructuring and/or privatization, diagnostic reviews
(special audits) of the two banks are to be completed by mid-1998. In the meantime, to improve
the performance of the banks, increase their efficiency, and reduce their financial risk, immediate
action plans are being implemented and other actions taken, as described below.
64.   YBRD. The reform measures in the immediate action plan include: implementing more
stringent credit procedures; classifying the portfolio and provisioning for NPLs; improving loan
recovery; reorganizing certain departments; developing a credit watch system; improving
compensation and management; and introducing penalties for loan default by insiders. In
addition, the Government and YBRD have agreed on financial arrangements to relieve YBRD of
NPLs of PEs. The government will issue 1 0-year government securities to YBRD for a total of
YR 1.8 billion in exchange for YBRD's portfolio of PEs' NPLs. The interest rate on the



Financial Sector Adjustment Credit                                                        15
securities would be based on average 3-month T-bill rates. The securities would not be
discountable at the Central Bank, but would be tradable on the market; YBRD would not be able
to use the proceeds as a basis for expanding its lending.
65.    The YBRD diagnostic review will include alternative strategies to restructure and/or
privatize the bank. The CBY's most recent inspection indicates that YBRD will require
substantial restructuring of its loan portfolio before it can be considered a good candidate for
privatization.9 Based on the diagnostic review, the Government will formulate, before the
second tranche release, a mutually agreed strategy and an action plan for the future of YBRD.
66.    NBY. The Government has already decided to privatize NBY. The main reform
objective would therefore be to enhance the bank's prospects for privatization.'0 The proposed
diagnostic review would help prepare NBY for privatization, as well as improve the financial
monitoring of the bank by the Government. Once a large part of the review is complete, the
Government would hire a financial advisor on privatization to prepare an information
memorandum and bidding documents and to bring the bank to the point of sale. It is proposed
that the Government would sell at least 51 percent of its shares in NBY to a strategic investor
who could build the business of the bank. Such an investor should preferably be a financial
institution or conglomerate that could transfer technology, management expertise, and
international standards of prudence. The investor would need to meet the test of a "fit and
proper" investor under the new licensing regulation, among other requirements.
67.    In two to three years, additional shares of NBY could be sold more widely to individual
investors or private enterprises, with a view to reducing the Government's shareholding to less
than 20 percent. This would give the new management adequate time to put in place new
policies and internal controls and procedures.
68.    The Government and NBY have agreed on a plan to relieve NBY of NPLs of PEs. The
CBY will take over NBY's loan accounts of two PEs with large NPLs. In the event the loans
become non-recoverable, the Government will have the ultimate liability for the loans. In
addition, funds totalling YR 718 million will be transferred from the Ministry of Finance's
account to NBY's account with the CBY to cover all other PEs' NPLs held by NBY. All credits
received will be held in blocked accounts with the CBY so that they cannot be used as a basis for
additional loans.
69.    Specialized Banks. Under the terms of reference agreed with IDA, special audits of the
specialized banks are to be carried out. Based on the auditors' assessment of the financial
condition and viability of the banks, the Government will formulate a strategy and an action plan
for the future of the banks. In developing the plan, the Government will examine various
options, including restructuring, merging, privatizing, or liquidating the banks, with a view to
The advantages and disadvantages of creating an autonomous agency, or a department in the Central Bank, for
resolving bad debts (more than 360 days past due) of the public banks have been considered by the Government.
Since the bad debts of the private sector are largely owed by less than a dozen debtors, the Government is of the
view that it would be more efficient to permit the banks to litigate these claims in the new courts, which became
operational only recently, rather than create a new institutional structure to litigate these claims on behalf of the
Govemment or the public sector banks. Data collected by Central Bank supervisors indicate that YBRD holds
YR 1.9 billion in private sector bad debts, for which YBRD plans to file claims in the new special courts.
'   A Saudi Arabian bank has expressed interest in buying NBY. In addition, other companies and individuals have
expressed interest in buying shares of the bank.



16                                                Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
limiting the contingent liability of the Government, eliminating or reducing subsidies, and
improving the equity and efficiency of any services to be provided by them.
V. IDA STRATEGY AND THE PROPOSED FSAC
A. IDA Strategy
70.   The main objectives of IDA's country assistance strategy in Yemen are to support:
(i) economic stabilization, structural reforms, and social protection; (ii) improvement of portfolio
implementation and the sustainability of past and future investments; and (iii) the promotion of
sustainable development.
71.   The FSAC will be IDA's second quick-disbursing balance-of-payments credit to Yemen,
the first being the ERC. The ERC provided support to reforms in the areas of trade policy,
investment regime, and privatization, as discussed in Section II above. IDA is also supporting
reforms andlor development in all important sectors. The proposed FSAC will support a number
of basic reforms in the banking sector, which are essential for providing financial resources for
expanding investment and sustaining growth.
B. The Proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
72.   The reform measures to be supported by the FSAC were discussed in Section IV above
and are presented in Annex 1. The first phase of the reform program to be supported by the
FSAC is being implemented and will continue to be implemented during 1997-98. All prior
actions for Board presentation, which constitute the main part of the current phase of financial
reforms, have been taken. Those actions that require further preparatory work are scheduled for
later implementation and comprise the second tranche release conditions. The two sets of
actions are summarized below.
73.   Pre-Board Actions
Legal Refonn
*  The Cabinet has approved, for presentation to Parliament, amendments to the Banking
Law to: specify criteria for bank licensing (a higher minimum capital requirement and
quality of management and Board of Directors); introduce accountability of individual
directors and set penalties for non-performance; and specify a framework for penalties
applicable to all financial institutions for infractions of the Banking Law and CBY
regulations.
* The Cabinet has approved amendments to the Banking Law to permit all banks to engage
in financial leasing.
*  The Cabinet has approved amendments to the tax law to eliminate all stamp taxes on
financial transactions.
*  The Cabinet has approved amendments to the Income Tax Law to permit tax
deductibility of specific provisions taken in accordance with the CBY regulation. To
prevent abuse, provisions against insider loans will not qualify for tax deduction.



Financial Sector Adjustment Credit                                            17
Regulatory Framework
* The regulation on capital adequacy has been amended and regulations have been issued
on: (i) internal controls and (ii) licensing requirements.
* Credit risk management regulation has been issued.
* A regulation on external auditing, including terms of reference, for audits of commercial
and specialized banks in accordance with international standards has been issued.
Supervision Capacity
* A phased plan (1997-2000) for salary restructuring for CBY staff has been adopted as
part of the medium-term development program (see below). A salary supplement for
1997 has been made effective as of June 1997. The salary increase for 1998 is being
considered as part of 1998 budget preparation.
* New staff openings for the Supervision Department have been publicly announced and
applications from qualified candidates have been invited.
- A medium-term development program for the Supervision Department has been adopted.
Enforcement of New Standards
- CBY has completed the classification of loan portfolios of all banks and calculated
shortfalls in provisions and the risk-weighted capital ratios of the banks in accordance
with the amended regulation.
* CBY has improved its database on private commercial banks' NPLs; the CBY requires
each bank to report monthly all names of doubtful (180 days or more overdue) borrowers
with loans outstanding and past due of YR 10 million or more and forbids any bank to
make new loans to these borrowers.
Relaxing Constraints on the Financial System
* Banks are now permitted to lend in foreign exchange, and banking fees and charges have
been deregulated.
* The reserve requirement has been reduced from 25 percent to 15 percent.
*  Rial reserves are now remunerated at 5 percent, and hard currency reserves at LIBOR-
less-50 basis points.
Resolving Public Enterprise Debt
* Access to credit for PEs has been limited; current regulation prohibits commercial bank
lending to PEs.
* The Government and public commercial banks have reached agreements on financial
arrangements to relieve banks of PEs' NPLs (see section IV (C) above).



18                                                 Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
Addressing Issues of Public Sector Banks
NBY
* NBY has signed a contract with an independent auditor (one of the big six international
accounting firns) to perform a diagnostic review of NBY for the purpose of
privatization.
* The Government has invited bids for a financial advisor for the sale of at least 51 percent
of Government shareholding, and transfer of management, to a strategic investor.
* NBY has adopted and begun implementing an immediate action plan based on the
recommendations of IDA.
YBRD
*  YBRD has re-invited bids, under revised terms of reference, for a diagnostic review of
the bank.
-  YBRD has adopted and begun implementing an immediate action plan based on the
recommendations of IDA.
-  The Ministry of Finance has been made the parent ministry of YBRD.
Specialized Banks
-  Specialized Banks (IBY, CACB, HB) have entered into contracts with independent
auditors, associated with international accounting firms, to prepare special audits of their
1996 accounts.
74.   Second Tranche Actions.
Legal Reform
*  In consultation with IFC/IDA, adopt an action plan for the development of the legal
framework for financial leasing.
Regulatory Framework
*  Amend prudential regulations on loan classification and provisioning.
*  Amend prudential regulations on foreign exchange exposure.
* Issue a regulation on credit risk concentration and insider lending upon enactment of the
amended Banking Law.
*  Assess the accounting standards used by banks and recommend new bank accounting
standards (with assistance of an international expert). - -
*  Issue a regulation to implement the new accounting standards.



Financial Sector Adjustment Credit                                             19
Supervision Capacity
* Make satisfactory progress in implementing the development program for supervision.
Enforcement of New Standards
* Private commercial banks to agree with CBY on time-bound (two- to three-year) action
plans for constituting provisions and meeting the 8 percent capital ratio, based on 1996
audits, and for complying with limits on insider lending and credit concentration in the
existing law.
Resolving Public Enterprise Debt
* Government to clean up PEs' NPLs held by NBY as a first priority to expedite its
privatization. For doubtful and bad debts (as of end-December 1996), cash payment will
be made from the 1998 budget into a blocked account and linked to privatization.
Substandard or performing loan accounts will be moved to the CBY.
Addressing Issues of Public Sector Banks
NBY
* Offer for sale through public announcement at least 51 percent of Government's
shareholding in NBY to a strategic investor (a reputable international financial
institution).
YBRD
- Based on the findings of the diagnostic review, prepare and adopt a time-bound action
plan, acceptable to IDA, for institutional and financial restructuring, privatization,
merger, or liquidation, as appropriate.
Specialized Banks
*  CBY to perform on-site and off-site inspection of specialized banks.
* Based on the findings of special audits, Government to review the rationale and
effectiveness of these institutions. Government to prepare and start implementing a
time-bound action plan, acceptable to IDA, for their institutional and financial
restructuring, privatization, merger, or liquidation, as appropriate.
Improving Corporate Accounting and Auditing Standards
* Establish an Accounting Standards Board to set and enforce standards for the non-bank
corporate sector in Yemen.
C. Rationale for IDA Involvement
75.   IDA involvement is both desirable and essential in supporting the financial sector (and
other policy) reforms in Yemen for several reasons. First, the Government, recognizing its
inadequate analytical and management capacity, has actively sought IDA's assistance and policy
advice. Second, the country is not yet in a position to attract sufficient bilateral and private



20                                                Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
capital and therefore needs concessional IDA resources to partially meet its foreign exchange
and budgetary needs. Third, and most importantly, the country has recently initiated its reform
program and has been implementing it with commitment and speed. It is therefore imperative
that IDA continue to provide support in various areas in order to help make the reforrns, and
resultant economic benefits, sustainable.
D. The Financing Package
76.   Credit Amount and Borrower. The proposed Credit of SDR 58.9 million (US$80
million equivalent) will be made to the Republic of Yemen through the CBY at the current
exchange rate. The Credit will be on IDA terms, with 40 years maturity and 10 years grace
period. The closing date is expected to be December 31, 1998.
77.   The Credit will provide quick-disbursing balance-of-payments support to the Republic of
Yemen and is proposed to be disbursed in two tranches. The first tranche of SDR 35.9 million
(US$50 million equivalent) would be available for disbursement upon Credit effectiveness. The
remaining SDR 23.0 million (US$30 million equivalent) would be available for disbursement, on
completion of the agreed actions, as a second tranche within a 12-month period. The proceeds of
the Credit would be used to achieve Credit objectives and would not be used to finance goods
ineligible under IDA policy (that is, goods included in IDA's standard negative list, goods from
ineligible countries, including domestic sources, and goods financed by other donors). The Bank
will have the right to require an audit of the use of the proceeds of the Credit to ensure
compliance with these requirements.
78.   Project Preparation Facility (PPF). Over the longer term, for full development and
deepening of the financial sector, the country will need significant, continual technical expertise.
In order to implement the reforms to be supported by the proposed FSAC, the country needs
immediate resources to finance technical assistance. For this purpose, the Government requested
a PPF in the amount of US$2.0 million. The PPF, which has been approved, will finance the
following activities: (a) comprehensive audits of public banks; (b) strengthening the legal
framework and supervision of banks; (c) development of a reporting system for non-performing
loans; and (d) modernization of Yemeni accounting and auditing to international standards.
E. Project Management and Implementation
79.   The project has been designed in close consultation with the CBY. Parts of the project
have already been implemented; for example, changes in reserve requirements and remuneration
have been made and some of the regulations have been issued, as shown in the matrix attached to
Annex 1. Nevertheless, the remaining actions are still ambitious, especially in view of the
known limited technical and implementation capacity in Yemen. The following arrangements
for project implementation have, therefore, been agreed upon with the Government:
a)    The CBY will be the counterpart agency responsible for the implementation and
coordination of reform actions. To carry out this task, the CBY has designated a Sub-
Governor as head of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU), with one full-time staff
member dedicated to FSAC activities. The PIU will be responsible for coordination with
other agencies, progress reporting to IDA, and maintaining financial-and other records
relating to the project. The PIU would be augmented with additional staff, if necessary.
b)    To supplement Government capacity, a PHRD grant and a PPF would help
finance immediate technical assistance and other work. In addition, IDA staff would



Financial Sector Adjustment Credit                                             21
continue to provide the needed short-term technical support through supervision
missions.
c)    IDA staff will supervise the project at least twice a year, the first supervision
taking place by early 1998. In addition, given the multiplicity of reform actions and
their tight schedule, IDA staff will continue to perform review and supervision functions
from headquarters and, if necessary, through individual staff visits.
d)    A set of indicators has been prepared to guide the monitoring of policy actions
and their development impact (see Annex 4).
F. Benefits and Risks
80.   Benefits. The benefits of the Government's economic reform program to be supported
by the FSAC would be significant. Yemen's large development agenda requires implementation
of reforrns in various sectors over a number of years, possibly supported by a series of IDA
operations. The ERC and SBA have helped lay down the basis for the resumption of economic
growth, reduced fiscal and external payments imbalances, and eased inflationary pressures. This
has restored the confidence of the private sector in the country's economic policy and prospects.
However, a good supply response needs a well-functioning financial sector to mobilize savings
and to provide the necessary credit to productive activities.
81.   Specifically, the reform program to be supported by the proposed FSAC would provide
the following main benefits: (i) increase the soundness of the banking system by improving the
legal and regulatory framework and strengthening the enforcement capacity of the CBY; (ii)
increase financial discipline within the banking sector and, thus, encourage a similar discipline in
private and public enterprises; (iii) facilitate improvements in banks' loan portfolios; (iv) initiate
privatization in the sector to reduce the Government's operational role and, in the long term,
increase efficiency and competition in the system; and (v) provide technical assistance for
strengthening accounting and auditing, which will also have significant benefits in terms of the
development of a sound corporate sector and capital market.
82.   Experience in some countries shows that, in the short term, financial sector reforms may
have some negative impact on firms, as banks limit their lending activities to comply with
improved prudential regulations. However, this impact is not expected to be significant in
Yemen since the level of bank lending is already low, and the major borrowers in the system
have access to credit outside Yemen. More importantly, especially in the medium and long term,
financial sector reforms being proposed for Yemen would more than offset any negative effect
by fostering efficiency and wider access of firms to bank credit. This would facilitate increased
intermediation for investment and growth in the country.
83.   Risks. The implementation of reforms to be supported by the proposed FSAC is subject
to two possible risks. First, any political instability and lack of continuity could seriously
interfere with reform implementation. This risk is minimal because political stability has, in
fact, increased since the parliamentary elections in April 1997. A new government has been
formed that has reaffirmed the country's commitment to reforms. Furthermore, IDA's policy
dialogue has been very productive and has encompassed various segments-of the population.
The Government, the private sector, and the banking, community are all convinced of the need
for reforms and are supportive of them. The second risk is the limited administrative and
technical capacity in Yemen. This risk is being minimized in the following ways: (i) IDA staff
have been providing and would continue to provide the necessary analysis and policy advice to



22                                                 Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
the CBY (which, in any case, is better staffed and managed than other government agencies); (ii)
the PIU established in the CBY will coordinate the implementation of reforms; (iii) to further
improve the staffing of the CBY, especially of its Supervision Department, the reformn package
includes early action on salary improvement and limited staff recruitment; and (iv) for
immediate tasks, technical assistance is being financed by the PHIRD grant and the PPF
mentioned above. In addition, the IMF is providing technical assistance to the CBY in the areas
of accounting. supervision, and monetary management. The EU, in coordination with the
Bankers' Institute of Yemen, is preparing a training program to improve the capacity and skills
in commercial banking.
84.   In view of the above, the risks for this operation are minimal. Furthermore, the
Government has already taken the important prior actions. Finally, IDA staff would continue to
monitor the progress of reforms, and the second tranche release would be conditional on the
overall performance of the reform program, as well as the implementation of specific actions.
VI. RECOMMENDATION
85.    1 am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio Koch-Weser
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
October 7, 1997



Financial Sector Adjustment Credit                                               23
ANNEXES



I
I



b4-2. : *Hil s/aL
..... . - y . ....  .......
LETTER OF SECTORAL POLICY
Date: August 28, 1997
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Dear Mr. President,
The Republic of Yemen (ROY) has been implementing a macroeconomic
stabilization and structural reform program since 1995. To complement and support this
program, the Government, in consultation with IDA, has initiated a phased program of
financial sector reforrns (FSR). For supporting these reforms, ROY seeks IDA assistance
in the form of a two-tranche Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC) of US$80
million equivalent. This letter of sectoral policy (LOSP) describes the background,
summarizes recent economic reforms and future strategy, and sets out the financial
reform program. The specific policy actions and their schedule of implementation,
covering 1996-98, to be supported by the FSAC, are presented in the attached Matrix of
Policy Reforms.
A. BACKGROUND
2.    The past several years have been particularly difficult for Yemen. Responding to
the Yemeni people's wishes, the former People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
(PDRY) and Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) were unified in May 1990 into the present
Republic of Yemen (ROY). This entailed political adjustments, merger of two different
structures and styles of administrations, and the establishment of infrastructure and
communications links. Inevitably, there were problems of adjustment at various levels
and additional financial costs. The challenges of political unification were compounded,
less than three months later, by the Gulf War. Most of the country's foreign aid was cut
off, and nearly a million Yemeni expatriates returned from the Gulf countries. which, in
turn, meant a sharp drop in foreign exchange earnings, increased unemployment, and a
higher burden on our infrastructure and social services. In addition, the collapse of the
forrner Soviet Union (FSU) shut off an important source of foreign aid and left Yemen
saddled with a large external debt. Finally, the military conflict of May-July 1994 took a
heavy toll in human. financial, and economic terms, and its adverse effects are still being
felt. Under these circumstances, economic management became difficult, and the
economic situation deteriorated rapidly.



Annex 1
Page 2 of 9
3.    The budget deficit averaged over 16 percent of GDP during 1992-94. In view of
reduced foreign inflows after the Gulf crisis, and continued low domestic savings, the
Government had to resort to borrowing from the banking system to finance the budget
deficit.
4.    The country's balance of payments position also remained precarious during
1992-93. The current account deficit averaged 27 percent of GDP during 1992-93. In
1994 and 1995, the current account registered a surplus of 3.6 percent and 1.1. percent of
GDP respectively, due to the substantial increased in oil exports in those years. The
surpluses, however, were not sufficient to meet the debt obligations falling due and
contractual payments to oil companies.
5.    Yemen carries a large external debt. The estimated debt of approximately US$
8.7 billion was more than twice Yemen's GDP in 1994, with a substantial share owed to
the Russian Federation (RF). Our policy has been to remain current in repayments to
multilateral and bilateral creditors, and on supplier's credit. However, given the scarcity
of foreign exchange resources, Yemen fell into arrears to the RF and to Middle Eastern
and bilateral creditors. In September 1996, we were able to get debt relief on Naples
terms from the Paris Club.
6.   In view of the above developments, the government became highly concerned
about the economic situation and the continued drop in the standard of living of the
Yemeni people. It was clear that the country needed to take steps to achieve at least a
moderate growth rate. Accordingly, the government began implementing, in early 1995,
a comprehensive program of economic reform. The Government has sought, and has been
receiving, the support of the IMF, IDA, AMF, and other donors in implementing this
prograrn.
B.   ECONOMIC REFORMS DURING 1995-96
The Stabilization Program
7.    The Government's immediate objective was to stabilize the economy by
addressing forcefully the main cause of macroeconomic imbalances, namely, large fiscal
deficits and resultant monetary expansion. As a first step toward achieving this objective,
the Government adopted bold measures in early 1995 aimed at reducing the fiscal deficit,
on a cash basis, to around 6 percent of GDP. These measures included adjustment of the
official and customs exchange rates from YR. 12/ $ and YR. 18/ $, respectively, to YR.
50/ $. They also included revenue measures, such as an increase in the price of cement
(before it was fully liberalized), petroleum products, and electricity, as well as
expenditure restraints.
8.    The Government recognized the need to further reduce the budget deficit in 1996
and adopt other measures. Accordingly, it implemented the following measures:



Annex 1
Page 3 of 9
(a)   The main budgetary measures were: reduction in explicit subsidies by five
percentage points of GDP, including substantial increases in petroleum product prices and
electricity tariffs; reducing the wage bill as a share of GDP; freezing current transfers to
public enterprises (PEs) as a share of GDP (capital transfers were increased largely to
continue implementation of projects in the electricity, water, and highway sectors); net
revenue increase from tariff reform; and improvement in public revenue collection.
(b)   Exchange rates were unified, and a floating rate regime was adopted.
(c)   A five percentage point increase was implemented in the minimum benchmark
savings and deposit interest rates, and treasury bill auctions were initiated in December
1996 as a non-inflationary means of financing the budget deficit and to mop up excess
liquiditv.
10.   As a result of the above measures, the cash budget deficit dropped to an estimated
2.3 percent of GDP in 1996, broad money supply increased by about 11 percent, the
inflation rate dropped to about 27 percent (compared to 62 percent in 1995), with a core
inflation rate of about 12.3 percent, and the exchange rate remained stable.
Structural Reforms
11.   Our Government's medium-term objective is to achieve sustained growth of at
least one to two percent per capita income per annum, and a pattern of growth that would
reduce inequities and poverty. Thus, while the stabilization measures discussed above
took effect, the Government started laying down a sound basis for future growth. Our
main strategy to achieve these objectives was to expand the private sector role in the
economy and to encourage exports. The Government, therefore, focused its efforts on
implementing policy reforms, removing restrictive regulations, providing a supportive
business environment, and undertaking privatization. These reforms, supported by the
Economic Recovery Credit (Cr. 2840), have been successfully implemented, as described
below, and both tranches of the Credit have been disbursed.
12.   Trade Policy. Substantial reforms in the trade policy regime have been
implemented during 1996. A simplified and less protective tariff structure has been
introduced. The earlier fifteen bands (with a maximum of 200 percent tariff rate) have
been replaced by four bands with a maximum of 30 percent tariff, except for cigarettes
and tobacco imports which have a 70 percent tariff. With a few exceptions (for reasons
of national security, religion, public health, and environmental protection), import bans,
export restrictions, and import licensing have been abolished. Duty exemptions for
imports by public enterprises and the Government have been removed with the exception
of existing contracts, international agreements, wheat and wheat flour, and crude oil for
re-export. All fees and surcharges on imports have been eliminated, and excise tax rates
for similar imported and domestic goods harmonized.



Annex 1
Page 4 of 9
13.   Privatization and Public Enterprise Reform. The Government initiated a
privatization program in January 1995. A first batch of six industrial enterprises was
offered for sale in mid-June 1995. The successful bidder, however, failed to complete
the sale of the latter enterprises. These enterprises, as well as two others, are now being
liquidated. In addition, another fifteen PEs were privatized during 1995-96, and ten were
returned to their original owners. In preparation for the privatization of utilities, a draft
study of a regulatory framework has been completed. To improve the oversight of the
financial performance of public enterprises, their financial monitoring was consolidated
in the Ministry of Finance. Current budgetary transfers to PEs are being phased out, and
their mutual arrears are being settled.
14.   Public Expenditures and Social Protection. Recommendations of IDA's Public
Expenditure Review were adopted, and their implementation started with the 1997
budget. Despite strong fiscal adjustment measures, we have maintained health and
education expenditures at the 1995 level in terms of percentage of GDP. In addition, a
public works project, supported by IDA, designed to generate employment while
improving infrastructure and other services is being implemented.
C. MEDIUM-TERM ECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
Objectives
15.   The success of the 1995-97 reform measures discussed above has been very
encouraging, and their impact is beginning to show in the increased business confidence
and economic activity. The government has also received a strong public endorsement of
its economic and other policies in the recent parliamentary elections. We, therefore,
believe that the county is poised for economic transformation during the next few years.
Our aim is to achieve, during 1997-2000, a sufficiently high non-oil growth rate (about 7
percent per annum), with a more equitable income distribution, to ensure a significant
improvement of living standards, reduced unemployment and poverty, and expanded
social services. This is to be achieved while maintaining domestic financial stability (a
core inflation rate of 5% or less) and external viability. Given the lack of physical and
financial resources in the country, and the government's limited administrative capacity,
we recognize that these are ambitious objectives. However, the government is fully
committed to achieving these objectives. To assist us in this endeavour, we have sought
support from the IMF in the form of an Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF),
discussions on which are in progress and should be soon completed.
Main Targets And Policy Reforms
16.   To achieve the above objectives, we are placing heavy reliance on the private
sector. As such, we shall continue to liberalize the economy and encourage private
sector investment and growth, mainly in manufacturing, agriculture, construction, and



Annex 1
Page 5 of 9
services. At the same time, the government will continue to reduce its direct participation
in private sector activities and focus on improved policy framework and provision of
essential infrastructure and public services.
17.   Fiscal Policy. The government has initiated restructuring of public expenditures
by reducing non-essential expenditures, including subsidies and current transfers, and
increasing infrastructure and social expenditures. At the same time, it is undertaking
comprehensive reforms of direct and indirect taxes to broaden the tax base, increase tax
elasticitv, and improve tax collection. The net impact of these expenditure and revenue
refonns wvould be to reduce fiscal deficit to a sustainable of about two percent of GDP.
This is expected to be financed by concessional inflows and domestic non-bank sources.
18.   External Sector Policies. To maintain external viability, and encourage exports,
the government will continue the floating exchange rate regime, undertake further trade
policy reforms, reduce the maximum tariff rate, and lower tariffs on inputs.  The
improved policies relating to the exchange rate, pricing, customs procedures, de-
regulation, and privatization discussed in this letter should help promote the growth of
non-oil exports. In addition, the government plans to provide an effective system of duty
drawbacks and temporary admissions of imports.
19.   Financial Sector. In order to meet our savings, investment, and growth targets,
it is essential that the financial sector, specifically the banking sector, should play a larger
and more effective role than at present. The government has agreed with IDA on a
substantial reforrn package for this sector as described in section D below.
20.   Privatization. In line with our objective of reducing the govermnent's direct role
in the economy, we are continuing to implement the privatization program initiated in
1995, as described in para 13 above. In addition, a batch of eight PEs is to be privatized
over the next year. In order to establish clear and transparent rules and procedures,
essential for an accelerated privatization program, a Privatization Law has been submitted
to Parliament and is expected to be approved within 1997. We are also resolving two
main issues which have prevented accelerated privatization, namely, land claims and
labour redundancy. The government plans to acquire all titles to PE lands so that it can
settle them directly, and is making adequate budgetary provisions for this purpose as well
as for compensating redundant labour. In the meantime, the government will provide
effective pricing and management autonomy to all PEs, with close financial monitoring
by MOF, to improve their performance.
21.   Sectoral Policies. As discussed above, public expenditures are being restructured
to expand social services, especially health and education, and to provide funds for
adequate operation and maintenance. In addition, agricultural extension services would
be improved and strengthened. To ensure adequate infrastructure services, the efficiency
of the relevant institutions will be increased and automatic tariff adjustments, according
to agreed formulas, will be allowed to ensure full cost recovery. In some of the service



Annex 1
Page 6 of 9
areas, such as trade in major commodities and trucking, the government plans to abolish
monopolistic structures, deregulate prices, and encourage competition.
D.   FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORMS
22.   As stated above, ROY has initiated a financial sector reform (FSR) program,
starting in 1996. The government has conceived this program as an integral part of its
overall stabilization and structural reforms.
23.   The financial sector performs a number of important functions, namely,
mobilizing savings, allocating resources for financing investment and growth, and
providing payment services in the economy. At this stage of Yemen's economic
development, it is important to increase the efficiency of these functions in the country.
In view of the above, the government has adopted a medium-terrn FSR program. The
main objectives of the program are: enhancing the effectiveness of monetary policy;
increasing the financial soundness of the banking system; expanding and improving the
intermediary role of the banking system; fostering the development of financial
institutions and instruments; and strengthening the capacity of the Central Bank of
Yemen (CBY), especially in the areas of prudential supervision and monetary
management. To achieve these objectives, FSR can be broadly divided into two phases.
The first phase consists of the reform measures immediately needed to strengthen the
soundness of the banking system. The second phase of the program would extend and
deepen the first phase reforms.
First Phase Reforms, 1996-98
24.   The first phase reforms are designed to address irnmediate banking sector issues
and are proposed to be supported by the FSAC. The main policy actions being
implemented, or to be implemented, during 1996-98 are as follows:
a) Improving the legal framework which governs bank licensing, accountability of
individual directors of banks, penalties for violating the Banking Law and
regulations, financial leasing, and taxation of financial transactions and
provisioning.
b)  Strengthening regulations on  banks' capital adequacy, internal control,
licensing, credit risk management, loan classification and provisioning, foreign
exchange exposure, large credit risk exposures, insider lending, and accounting and
external auditing standards.
c)  Monitoring and enforcing banks' compliance with the above legal and
regulatory framework, enhancing the supervision capacity of the CBY by
improving the CBY's salary structure, hiring additional qualified staff on the basis



Annex 1
Page 7 of 9
of the new salary structure, adopting a medium-term development program for on-
site and off-site supervision, completing the classification of the loan portfolios of
all banks, ensuring competent external auditing, agreeing with banks on a time-
bound schedule for meeting the capital adequacy ratio, improving the CBY
database on banks' non-performing loans, and requiring banks not to make loans to
delinquent borrowers beyond certain minimum limits.
d) With a view to increasing intermediation by banks, the government has already
allowed them to lend in foreign exchange, freed banking fees and charges, reduced
reserve requirement from 25% to 15%, and is remunerating reserves at specified
rates.
e) Non-performing PE debts are a heavy burden on NBY and YBRD. As such, the
data on these debts have been reconciled and agreements have been reached to
settle the outstanding debts.
f) Diagnostic reviews (special audits) will be undertaken for all public sector banks
(including the three specialized banks) to give the government reliable information
on which to base its decisions to restructure, privatize, or liquidate these banks. The
government has already decided to privatize NBY, and its diagnostic review and
clean-up of its PE debts will be given priority. Since the two major public
commercial banks, especially YBRD, need to reduce their risk exposure and
improve performance, immediate actions are being taken for this purpose during
1997 and early 1998 in consultation with IDA.
g) Although specific regulations mentioned above will ensure proper accounting
and external auditing of banks, the government recognises the urgent need to
complement these with improved corporate accounting and auditing standards.
Towards this end, the government will undertake, with the- assistance of an
international expert, an assessment of prevailing practices and, based on this
assessment it will implement improved standards through an Accounting Standards
Board.
Second Phase Reforms, 1998-2000
25.   To extend and deepen the first phase reforms, the government plans to continue
with a second phase of reforms during 1998-2000. The main elements of this phase are
described in the following paragraphs.
26.   The government plans to: eliminate the minimum benchmark deposit rate; further
reduce the level and cost of reserve requirement; reduce the spreads between loan and
deposit rates; develop interbank market activities; improve the functioning of the judicial



Annex 1
Page 8 of 9
system to increase loan recovery; and develop institutional arrangements for a capital
market.
27.   The government intends to withdraw completely from direct participation in
banking activities and focus on its primary financial sector functions of monetarv
management, enforcement of prudential regulations, and facilitating the deepening of the
financial sector. In this context, the government plans to privatize NBY during 1998. On
the completion of the diagnostic review of YBRD, the government will take a decision on
restructuring/privatizing/liquidating YBRD, as may be appropriate. The government will
also take a similar decision on the three specialized Banks (HB, CACB, and IBY) on the
completion of their special audits planned for 1997-98.
28.   At present, the government uses direct monetary instruments to manage the
money supply. These instruments are not sophisticated enough to deal with the needs of
a growing economy. As such, the government intends to replace them with indirect
monetary management based on open-market operations by end-1998. To prepare for
this transition, the CBY will adopt weekly treasury bill auctions in late 1997. Once the
indirect monetary control is functioning satisfactorily, all unnecessary direct monetary
instruments will be eliminated, and the efficiency of remaining direct monetary
instruments will be increased. As part of this policy, the CBY will continue to review the
level of legal reserves and their remuneration.
29.  In addition to the improvement and enforcement of the prudential regulations
discussed above, the government plans to resolve the issue of PE debts to commercial
banks, particularly YBRD and NBY. An exercise to compile and reconcile the PE debts
to the banks is being finalized. Since the size of the debt is large and cannot be paid
from budgetary resources in the immediate future, the governmnent plans to make cash
payments of YR718 million to NBY, as already agreed, and will issue ten-year indexed
govermment bonds in exchange for PE debt to YBRD. For NBY, the cash payments will
be made into a blocked account with the CBY and will not be allowed to be used as a
basis for additional loans. PEs would still carry the debt on their books, but it would be
owed to the Government and not the banks.
30.  In the past, banks have not been able to play a strong intermediation role partly
because of the lack of speedy enforcement of loan contracts and, consequently, poor loan
recovery. In order to remedy this situation, the government has established special courts
and will continue to monitor their performance with a view to ensuring quick and
effective enforcement of banks' loan contracts.
31.   The government plans to develop an active interbank market as well as a
secondary market for treasury bills. These markets would enable banks to substantially
improve the management of their liquidity and interest risk, as well as provide a safe
vehicle for holding their assets. To achieve this dual purpose, the government plans to
improve the transparency of the banking sector (through better financial disclosure) and



Mu"CA 1
Page 9 of 9
introduce new instruments such as repurchase agreements. Simultaneously, the CBY
will develop its capacity to monitor and manage a modem money market.
32.   The government plans to develop financial leasing by banks and non-banking
institutions.  The requisite legal framework is likely to be in place during 1997-98. This
instrument will especially help new and emerging companies, as well as those without
adequate collateral, to have access to medium-termn credit.
33.   A pension fund reform will be undertaken to ensure the financial viability of the
public sector pension fund. This will also help generate longer term loanable funds. For
the latter purpose, as well as for providing improved insurance services, the government
plans to study the current insurance system and implement needed reforms over the
medium-term.
34.  In view of the ongoing improvement in the policy framework and economic
activity in the country, we would soon need to develop the non-banking part of the
financial sector, i.e., the capital market. This is essential to assist in our private sector-
led growth strategy and in the privatization of the larger public enterprises. Based on the
recommendations of IDA's Financial Sector Note (November 1996), we intend to adopt
an action plan to establish a capital market, and seek IFC's assistance in this regard. In
the meantime, we will focus on the pre-requisites for establishing a capital market: well-
functioning money and treasury bill markets, an appropriate legal framework, and
adequate financial disclosure.
E.   CONCLUSION
35.   Mr.  President, we have embarked on an ambitious and comprehensive
macroeconomic stabilization and structural reform program. We have already made
significant progress toward achieving these goals, as outlined above. But, much work
remains to be done. The Government of Yemen intends to continue and deepen the
reform program over the medium term. The financial sector reforms are an important
part of this process, and will need the close cooperation and support of our multilateral
and bilateral partners. IDA's contribution is of utmost importance in this context. We,
therefore, request a credit in the amount of US$ 80 million equivalent to provide support
for the first phase of financial sector reforms.
with best regards     -
ALAWI S. ALSALAMI
MJNIBIEef FINANCE    X.     
a,>q\soNe\NsK-Y -        X~~~~~~00



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



YEMEN: Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
Matrix of Reform Measures
Reform Measures                               Expected Benefits                      Action and       Completion    Condition for
Agency              By
Concerned           (Datel
1. Macroeconomic Framework
Maintain satisfactory macroeconomic framework.   Maintain macroeconomic stability and          MOF               Ongoing         Ongoing
achieve sustainable growth.
2. Legal Reform
(a) Amend the Banking Law to: specify criteria   Improve the quality of banks at entry, and  Cabinet Approval    September        Board
for bank licensing (a higher minimum capital  ensure good governance and soundness of    (for presentation to     10, 1997     Presentation
requirement and quality of management and Board  banks.                                     Parliament)           (Done)
of Directors); introduce accountability of                                                      CBY
individual directors and set penalties for non-
performance; and specify a framework for
penalties applicable to all financial institutions for
infractions of the Banking Law and regulations.
(b) Amend the Banking Law to permit all banks    Increase diversity of financial instruments  Cabinet Approval  September         Board
to engage in financial leasing.               available; minimize credit risk; provide a  (for presentation to   10, 1997      Presentation
vehicle for medium-term credit; and avoid     Parliament)          (Done)
including interest payment in credit             CBY
agreement.
(c) In, consultation with IFC/IDA, adopt an action   As above.                                                  August 31,   Second Tranche
plan for the development of the legal framework                                                                    1998          Release
for financial leasing.
(d) Amend the tax law to eliminate all stamp taxes  Reduce the cost of intermediation.    Cabinet Approval      September         Board
on financial transactions.                                                               (for presentation to    10, 1997      Presentation
Parliament)          (Done)
MOF
-o > 
rD , 



Reform Measures                               Expected Benefits                     Action and       Completion    Condition for
Agency             By
Concerned          (Date)
(e) Amend the Income Tax Law to permit tax    Make tax provisions consistent with the    Cabinet Approval     September 7,      Board
deductibility of specific provisions taken in  regulatory framework, encourage banks to  (for presentation to     1997        Presentation
accordance with the CBY regulation. To prevent   readily provision for probable losses, and  parliament)         (Donle)
abuse, provisions against insider loans will not  prevent abuse.                               MOF
qualify for tax deduction.
3. Regulatory Framework
(a) Amend regulation on capital adequacy, and  Raise minimum standards and strengthen         CBY               May 15,         Board
issue regulations on: (i) internal controls and (ii)   the financial position of banks.                          1997        Presentation
licensing requirements.                                                                                         (Done)
(b) Issue credit risk management regulation.  Improve risk management and, thereby,           CBY               July 31,         Board
the financial position of banks.                                   1997          Presentation
(Done)
(c) Amend prudential regulations on loan      Ensure financial soundness of banks.            CBY              Aug. 31,      Second Tranche
classification and provisioning.                                                                                 1998           Release
(d) Amend prudential regulations on foreign   Ensure financial soundness of banks.            CBY              March 31,    Second Tranche
exchange exposure.                                                                                               1998           Release
(e) Issue a regulation on credit risk concentration    Ensure financial soundness of banks.   CBY              Aug. 31,      Second Tranche
and insider lending upon enactment of the                                                                        1998           Release
amended Banking Law.
(f) Issue a regulation on external auditing,  Provide reliable financial information,         CBY              May 15,           Board
including terms of reference, for audits of  including a classification of loan and                              1997         Presentation
commercial and specialized banks in accordance    equity portfolios and an assessment of                        (Donie)
with the international standards.            capital adequacy and provisions.
(g) Assess the accounting standards used by banks  Improve accuracy and consistency of        CBY              March 31,    Second Tranche
and recommend new bank accounting standards.   financial data.                                                   1998           Release
9 >



Reform Measures                              Expected Benefits                     Action and       Completion    Condition for
Agency             By
Concerned          (Date)
(h) Issue a regulation to implement the new  Improve accuracy and consistency of             CBY             August 31,    Second Tranche
accounting standards.                        financial data.                                                    1998           Release
4. Supervision Capacity
(a) Adopt a phased plan (1997-2000) for salary  Enable CBY to hire and keep well-            CBY             September          Board
restructuring for the CBY, with a salary     qualified staff.                                                 7, 1997        Presentation
supplement effective June 1997.                                                                                (Done)
(b) CBY to publicly announce new staff openinigs   Strengthen CBY's capacity and skills for  CBY             September          Board
for the Supervision Department and invite    the supervision of financial institutions.                       7, 1997        Presentation
applications from qualified candidates.                                                                       (Done)
(c) Adopt a medium-termn development program  Strengthen CBY's capacity and skills for       CBY             September          Board
for the Supervision Department.              the supervision of financial institutions.                        7, 1997       Presentation
(Done)
(d) Make satisfactory progress in implementing its  As in (c) above.                         CBY             August 31,    Second Tranche
development program for supervision.                                                                            1998           Release
5. Enforcement of New Standards
(a) CBY to complete the classification of loan  Determine the financial position of banks.   CBY             September          Board
portfolios of all banks, and calculate shortfalls in                                                           7, 1997       Presentation
provisions and the risk-weighted capital ratios of                                                             (Done)
the banks in accordance with the amended
regulation.
(b) Private commercial banks to agree with CBY    Bring banks into compliance with        CBY/Banks          March 31,   Second Tranche
on time-bound (two-three year) action plans for    regulations within an agreed time frame;                     1998          Release
constituting provisions and meeting the 8% capital  ensure banks' capital adequacy.
ratio, based on 1996 audits, and for complying
with limits on insider lending and credit
concentration in the existing law.                                                                                                     e 
oq e >
'-. 0  



Reform Measures                                Expected Benefits                     Action and        Completion    Condition for
Agency              By
Concerne(d         (Date)
(c) Improve CBY data base on private commercial  Increase pressure on debtors to pay their     CBY              September         Board
banks' NPLs; require each bank to report monthly   debts; reduce the likelihood of default by                     7, 1997      Presentation
all names of delinquent (180 days or more     debtors; and reduce banking system's                               (Done)
overdue) borrowers with loans outstanding and  exposure to high risk borrowers.
past due of YR 10 million or more; and forbid any
bank to make new loans to these borrowers.
6. Relaxing Constraints on the Financial System
(a) Permit banks to lend in foreign exchange and   Improve resource use and reduce             CBY               May 15,          Board
de-regulate banking fees and charges.         unnecessary costs of financial transactions.                         1997        Presentation
(Done)
(b) Reduce reserve requirement from 25 percent    Encourage increased intermediation.          CBY              December          Board
to 15 percent.                                                                                                     1996        Presentation
(Done)
(c) Remunerate legal rial reserves at 5% and hard   Reduce average cost of bank funds; enable  CBY              December          Board
currency reserves at LIBOR-less-50 basis points.   banks to reduce their lending rates; and                        1996        Presentation
increase intermediation.                                           (Done)
7. Resolving Public Enterprise Debt
(a) Continue limiting access to credit for public  Contain credit exposure of commercial     MOF/CBY            December           Board
enterprises; current regulation prohibits     banks to PEs with non-performing loans.                              1995         Presentation
commercial bank lending to PEs.                                                                                  (Done)
(b) Government and public commercial banks to    Ensure an orderly process for settling PE   MOF/CBY            September         Board
reach agreements on financial arrangements to  debts to banks.                                                   7, 1997       Presentation
relieve banks of non-performing loans (NPLs) of                                                                  (Done)
PEs.
(c) Approval of plans to clean up NPLs of PEs to   Facilitate privatization of NBY.         MOF/ CBY            December    Second Tranche
NBY as a first priority to expedite its privatization.                                                           31, 1997        Release
(Donle)                   a
4, 5



Reform Measures                              Expected Benefits                     Action and       Completion    Condition for
Agency             By
Concerned          (Date)
(d) All credits to NBY for NPLs will remain in
blocked accounts pending privatization of NBY.    To prevent use of credits as a basis for  MOF/CBY           Linked to
additional loans.                                              Privatization
8. Addressing Issues of Public Sector Banks
(i) NBY
(a) NBY to sign a contract with an independent  Provide adequate and reliable information  NBY/MOF           September         Board
auditor (a member of the big six international  and facilitate privatization.                                  7, 1997      Presentation
accounting firms) to perform a diagnostic review                                                               (DLone)
of NBY for the purpose of privatization.
(b) Government to invite bids for a financial  Prepare NBY for sale, through a               MOF             September         Board
advisor (under TORs agreed with IDA) for the sale  transparent process to a strategic investor.                7,1997       Presentation
of Government share-holding of at least 51%,  Help market the sale.                                           (Done)
and transfer of management, to a strategic
investor.
(c) Offer for sale through public announcement at  Bring in capital, technology, and         MOF             August 31,   Second Tranche
least 51% of Government's shareholding in NBY    professional management; reduce                                1998          Release
to a strategic investor (a reputable international  Government's direct role (and potential
financial institution).                      liability) in banking; build the business of
the bank; and increase competition in the
system.
(d) Adopt and begin implementing an immediate    Pending privatization, reduce costs,     MOF/NBY            September        Board
action plan.                                 improve management, and reduce financial                         7, 1997       Presentation
risk.                                                            (Done)
C    Cs
0  F 



Reform Measures                              Expected Benefits                     Action and       Completion    Condition for
Agency             By
Concerned          (Date)
(ii) YBUD
(a) YBRD to re-invite bids, with a reduced scope    Determine the financial position of YBRD  YBRD/MOF       September        Board
of work as agreed with IDA, for a diagnostic  and provide recommendations/options for                         7, 1997       Presentation
review of YBRD.                              deciding the bank's future status.                               (Done)
(b) Based on the findings of the diagnostic  Strengthen YBRD's governance/               YBRD/MOF            March 31,   Second Tranche
review, prepare and adopt a time-bound action  management, financial position, and risk                         1998          Release
plan, satisfactory to IDA, for institutional and  management; increase financial
financial restructuring, privatization, merger, or    intermediation by the bank; and thereby
liquidation.                                 increase competition in the system.
(c) Adopt and begin implementing an immediate   Improve management and reduce financial  YBRD/MOF            September        Board
action plan.                                 risk pending privatization/ restructuring or                     7, 1997       Presentation
liquidation of the bank, as appropriate.                         (Done)
(d) Make the Ministry of Finance the parent  Consolidate financial monitoring of NBY     YBRD/MOIF           September        Board
ministry of YBRD.                            and YBRD in one ministry. Strengthen the                         7, 1997       Presentation
financial monitoring of YBRD.                                    (Done)
(iii) Specialized Banks
(a) Specialized Banks (IBY, CACB, HB) to sign   Determine financial position of specialized  MOF/CBY         September        Board
contracts with independent auditors, who are  institutions, and provide the necessary                         7, 1997       Presentation
associated with international accounting firms, to   information to the Government for                        (Done)
prepare special audits of their 1996 accounts.  deciding the future status of the banks.
(b) CBY to perform on-site and off-site inspection  Treat the institutions at par with       CBY             IBY on-site   Second Tranche
of these institutions.                       commercial banks for applying prudential                       exam- 1996;      Release
regulations and performing supervision;                        other two, -
ensure they are financially sound.                              Dec. 1997
>o m



Reform Measures                                Expected Blenefits                     Action and        Completion    Condition for
Agency              By
Concern(ed          (Date)
(c) Based on the findings of special audits,   Improving the performance of the banks            MOI              August 31,   Seconid T ranichie
Government to review the rationale and         and/or privatizing/merginig/liquidating                               1998          Release
effectiveness of these banks. Government to   thiem.
prepare and start implementing a time-bound
action plan, satisfactory to IDA, for institutional
and financial restructuring, privatization, merger,
or liquidation of the banks.
9. Improving Corporate Accounting and Auditing
Standards
(a) Establish an Accounting Standards Board to set  Raise standards and provide greater                           August 31,   Second Tranche
and enforce standards for the non-bank corporate   transparency and reliability of financial                        1998           Release
sector in Yemen.                               statements of companies, necessary for
their own probity, for dealing with banks,
and for preparing them to participate in
capital markets planned to be established
in the country.



I



Annex 2
Page 1 of 5
Yemen - Key Indicators
1995      1996      1997      1998      1999       2000      2001      2002
National Accounts
GDP at Market Prices (US$ mi])                 4,850     5,625     5,761     5,899      6,244     6,678     7,149      7,665
Real GDP Growth(%)                               8.6        3.0       5.4       5.2        5.5       6.0       6.0       6.1
Core Inflation (%)                              48.0       12.3       5.0       5.0       5.0        5.0       5.0       5.0
Real Per Capita Private Consumption (%)         21.5       15.1      -2.0       1.7       0.1        1.2       2.9       2.5
In Percent of GDP
Gross Domestic Product                         100.0      100.0     100.0     100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0     100.0
Total Consumption                              102.2       89.3      90.0      92.0      91.9       91.8      92.6      92.9
Gross Domestic Investment                       20.8       22.5      21.8      22.4      22.9       23.5      23.9      24.0
Government Investment                          3.3       6.7        7.3       7.8       8.2        8.7       9.0       9.0
Private Investment                            17.0       15.4      14.5      14.6       14.7      14.8      14.9      15.0
Change in Stock                                0.4       0.4        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Gross Domestic Savings                           -2.2      10.7      10.0       8.0       8.1        8.2       7.4       7.1
Balance of Payments
In Percent of GDP
Trade Balance                                   3.1       -0.6      -1.2      -3.9      -5.1       -6.0      -6.0      -6.8
CurrentAccountBalance(paymentbasis)             5.8        2.7       0.1      -1.2      -1.1       -1.4      -1.4       -1.1
Official Grants                                 0.8        1.1       1.5       1.2       1.2        1.1       1.0        1.0
Current Account Bal Before Grants               5.0        1.6      -1.4      -2.4      -2.3       -2.5      -2.4      -2.1
Current Account Balance (obligation basis)      3.4        0.8      -1.7      -2.3      -2.0       -2.1      -1.9      -1.6
Growth.current US$ (%)
Exports of Merchandise                           10.2      14.3       1.2      -0.9       0.2        2.3       6.1       3.4
Oil Exports                                      7.4       13.9       1.6      -1.7      -0.9        1.1       1.6        1.6
Imports of Merchandise                          20.3      25.3        2.9       5.9      -3.8        5.1       6.3       5.9
Public Finance (% of GDP)
Total Revenues & grants                         21.1       36.8      39.2      36.9      35.3       34.2        ...       ...
Total Expenditures                              28.7       40.7      43.5      40.2      38.4       37.0        ...       ...
Overall Budget Deficit (commitment basis)       -7.6       -4.0      -4.3      -3.3      -3.1       -2.8        ...       ...
Overall Budget Deficit (cash basis)             -6.5      -2.3       -2.5      -2.2      -2.2       -2.1      -1.9      -1.8
Sources: Ministry of Finance and IMF
ANNEX2.XLS
10/1/97 2:22 PM



Annex 2
Page 2 of 5
Macroeconomic Indicators and Projections
1995      1996      1997      1998      1999      2000      2001      2002
GDP Gro,.th (%)                                 8.6        3.0       5.4       5.2       5.5       6.0       6.0        6.1
Core Inflation () 1/                          48.0       12.3       5.0       5.0       5.0       5.0       5.0        5.0
Exports of Goods (USS million)                1,980     2,263     2,291     2,271     2,275     2,328     2,470      2,555
Imports of Goods (US5 million)                1,831     2,294     2,361     2,500     2,596     2,729     2,902      3,073
Current Account Balance/GDP (%) 21
Payment Basis                                 5.8       2.7       0.1      -1.2       -1.1      -1.4      -1.4       -1.1
Obligation Basis                              3.4       0.8       -1.7      -2.3      -2.0      -2.1      -1.9       -1.6
Budget Deficit/GDP, cash basis (%)              -6.5      -2.3      -2.5      -2.2      -2.2      -2.1      -1.9       -1.8
Budget Deficit/GDP, com. basis (%)              -7.6      -4.0      -4.3      -3.3      -3.1      -2.8        ...       ...
Revenues & Grants                            21.1      36.8      39.2      36.9       35.3      34.2        ...       ...
Expenditures                                 28.7      40.7      43.5      40.2       38.4      37.0        ...       ...
Official DOD/GDP (%)
Obligation basis before rescheduling        184.0     161.5    174.4       173.8     169.1     159.2     151.4     145.0
Cash Basis after rescheduling 5/               ...       ...    122.8      118.9     113.3     105.6     101.3      98.3
Debt Services/Exports of GS (%) 3/4/
Obligation basis before rescheduling         38.6      30.1      24.6      20.5       19.7      18.6       8.7       6.3
Obligation Basis after rescheduling 5/         ...       ...      6.5        5.8       7.3      15.1      11.1       8.5
l/ Inflation excludes the effect of adjustments in administered prices.
21 After grants.
3/ Public and publicly guaranteed debt including CBY's foreign liabilities.
4/ Ratio to current account receipts excluding foreign oil companies' shares of petroleum exports.
5/ Assumes flow reshedulings (debt reduction option) on Paris Club Naples terms in 1996-99.
Sources: Ministry of Finance and IMF



Annex 2
Page 3 of 5
Financing Requirements
(in millions of US$)
1995     1996     1997      1998      1999     2000      2001      2002
Gross External Financing Requirement                 -204     -257    -7399    -1045    -1019        -862      -590      -503
Current Account Balance net of Int & Off Grants        S0      -89       -61     -270      -314      -344      -256      -260
Debt Service Obligation                              -891     -781    -1403      -639      -594      -551      -329      -300
Change in Reserves (increase-)                       -199     -269       -91      -92      -104      -161      -149      -103
Change in Overdue Obligation (increase -)             751      568    -5803         0         0         0         0         0
Other capital (net) 1/                                 54      313       -41      -44        -7       194       144       160
Regular Financing Sources                             204      257      259       266       239       313       434       430
Official Current Grants (R)                          40       68       91        75        77        74        76       79
LT Loans o/w                                         53      137      168       191       162       239      358       351
IDA                                                24       94       91        50        40        40       22        17
Errors & Omissions                                  III      -41        0         0         0         0         0        0
Exceptional Financing                                   0        0     7140       779       780       549       156        73
Anticipated Debt Relief 2/                                           7020       431       386       324        37       37
Net Gap                                                               120       348      394       225       119        36
I/ Includes foreign oil companies' transactions, oil sector trade credits, wheat import financing, and private capital.
2/ Including FOCs' oil exports, imports of capital goods, profit remittances, foreign expenditures, foreign direct investment.
3/ Assuming consolidation of arrears in 1997 and Naples terms for all bilateral debt.
Source: Staff estimates.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 5
Yemen - Monetary Survey, 1994-97
(in billions of Yemeni Rials)
1994      1995       1996      Jul-97
Broad money 1/                             220.7      265.7     293.9      319.5
Money                                     139.7     164.1      156.7     166.1
Currency outside banks                   111.0     129.1      120.5     123.8
Demand deposits                         28.7       35.0       36.2      42.3
Quasi-money                               35.4      46.0       73.3      84.6
Foreign currency deposits                45.6       55.6       63.9      68.8
Foreign assets (net)                       23.0       38.9      103.3      135.3
Central Bank (net)                        1.6       19.8       87.5      96.0
Commercial Banks (net)                   21.4       19.1       15.8      39.3
Domestic assets (net)                      197.7      226.8     190.6      184.2
Claims on non-Government sector           27.0      34.7       24.5       31.6
Private sector                           17.6      23.9       22.4      29.3
Public enterprises                      9.4        10.8       2.1       2.3
Other items (net)                         2.9       -13.3     -33.9      -3.5
1/ Includes deposits of public and private sector social security funds and deposits of public
enterprises at the Central Bank.
Sources: Central Bank of Yemen and IMF.



Annex 2
Page 5 of 5
Yemen - Balance of Payments
(in millions of US$)
1995      1996      1997      1998       1999      2000      2001       2002
Merchandise Exports (FOB)                     1980    2,263      2,291     2,271      2,275     2,328     2,470      2,555
Services Exports (XS)                         217       238        260       277       294        313       334       354
Exports of GS                                 2197      2501      2551       2548      2569      2641       2804      2909
Merchandise Imports (FOB)                     1831     2,294     2,361     2,500      2,596     2,729     2,902      3,073
Service Imports (MS) o/w                      1306     1,343     1,536      1,491     1,486     1,534      1,621     1,633
Freight& Insurance                           256      233        310       331       346        365       389       414
Interest Payments                             21        18        26        33        35         33        27        23
Official Interest Obligations                144       122       188       158        158       168       199       208
Oil Companies' Profits                       454      601        630       598       593        602       612       595
Oil Companies' Expenditures                  203       131       119        95        76         65        61         54
Imports of GS                                 3137      3637      3897       3991      4082      4263      4523       4706
Net Exports of GS                             -940     -1136      -1346     -1443     -1513      -1622     -1719     -1797
Private Remittances (net)                    1,067     1,123     1,157      1,233     1,314     1,400      1,492     1,582
Official Transfers (net)                       37        60         88        72        74         71        73         76
Current Account Balance                        164        47       -101      -138      -125       -151      -154      -139
Long Term Loans (net)                         -694      -522       -448      -290      -274       -144       229       259
Pipeline (net)                              -694      -522       -462      -339      -328       -290       -35         1
Disbursement                                53       137       154        142       108        76        60         39
Amortization Obligations                   747       659       616       481        436       366         95        38
New Loans (net)                                0         0         14        49        54        146       264       258
Short-Term Oil Trade Credits (net)             -33       -64        -13        10         3         -1        -8         -3
Oil Sector Direct Investment (net)            -218        -60       -44      -244      -282       -308      -323       -336
Wheat Import Financing (net)                    68       167       -122      -124      -124         0          0         0
Other Private Capital (net)                     50        80         80       100       125       215        245       250
Errors & Omissions                             111        -41         0         0         0          0         0         0
Overall Balance                               -552       -393      -648      -686      -677       -389       -11        31
Financing                                      552       393      -6478       -92      -104       -161      -149       -103
Change in Reserves (increase -)             -199      -269        -91       -92      -104       -161      -149      -103
Secured Debt Relief                            0        93         15         0         0         0          0         0
Change in Overdue Obligations (increase +)   751       568      -5803         0         0         0          0         0
Change in Late Interest Obligations            0         0       -599         0         0         0          0         0
Financing gap                                    0         0      -7126      -778      -781       -550      -160        -72
IDA (FSAC)                                     0         0        50         30         0         0          0         0
UseofFundCredit(net)                           0         0        74        172       173        97          0         -4
Residual Financing Gap                         0         0      -7250      -980      -954       -647      -160       -68
Sources: Ministry of Finance and IMF.



I
I



Annex 3
Yemen: Financial Sector Indicators
IMF
Last period   Staff
available   Proj.
1992     1993     1994      1995     1996      1997     1997
Aggregates
Broad Money (millions of rials) 1/               120,709  164,213  220,684  265,740  293,934  319,511  320,255
GDP at current market prices (millions of rials)  182,881  220,882  270,900  451,530  693,471   763,197  763,197
Broad Money / GDP                                 66.0%    74.3%    81.5%    58.9%    42.4%    41.9%    42.0%
Interest Rates
6-month T-Bill Rate 2/                                ...     ...       ...      ...   25.5%     12.7%
6-month Deposit Rates (Minimum before 1995) 3/    13.0%    13.0%    13.0%    21.0%    21.0%      12.0%
6-month Lending Rates (Maximum before 1995) 3/    17.0%    17.0%    17.0%  25-32 %   26-37 %   17-22 %
Banking Sector Assets
Commercial Banks' Assets (million rials) 4/      82,927  111,945  158,873  178,145  179,252  189,441
Commercial Banks' Loans (million rials) 5/        13,833   16,049   27,189   34,875   24,595   29,747
Loans/ Total Assets                               16.7%    14.3%    17.1%    19.6%    13.7%    15.7%
Deposits at CBY 6/                               23,721   24,989   30,959   42,171    57,995   42,527
Deposits at CBY/ Total Assets                     28.6%    22.3%    19.5%    23.7%    32.4%    22.4%
Distribution of Loans 5/
Private Enterprises                             10,040   12,653   17,619   23,865   22,358   27,224
Public Enterprises                               3,647    3,250    9,376   10,826    2,056    2,343
Mixed Enterprises                                  147      146      194       185      181       181
Ratio to total loans to non-government sector:
Private Enterprises                          72.6%    78.8%    64.8%    68.40/%   90.9%    91.5%
Public Enterprises                           26.4%    20.2%    34.5%    3 1.0%     8.4%      7.9%
Mixed Enterprises                             1.1%     0.9%     0.7%      0.5%     0.7%      0.6%
Source: Central Bank of Yemen and IMF staff estimates.
1/ End-July, 1997.
2/ End-June, 1997.
3/ End-August, 1997.
4/ Total assets (= Total liabilities); end-June, 1997.
5/ Claims on non-government sector, including public and mixed enterprises; end-June, 1997.
6/ Rial and foreign currency deposits; end-June 1997.



I
I



YEMEN
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
Proposed Monitoring Indicators/Measures
1. Macro Indicators                    Indicators                                               implicatiolis                                         Progress
l   1995 [   1996 ]  1997
(I) Inflation Rate.                        A reasonable degree of price stability is essential for a strong and stablc
(% per annum)                         financial systcm. Thie fragility threshiold varies from country to counitry.
(2) Fiscal Balance                         Large and persistent fiscal deficits lead to inflationary pressures, repression of
(cash deficit/GDP)                    the financial system, and high-level of nonperforming loans, thus adding to
financial fragility. Fiscal deficits in the case of Yemen become even more
damaging because private savings rates are low.
(3) Current Account Balance                Large current account deficits often lead to reserve losses, capital outflows,
(% of GDP)                            and excessive foreign borrowings; they tend to damage financial systems.
(4) Real GDP Growth                        A stable growing economy tends to promote sound and strong financial
systems, while the opposite is often associated with increased fragility of a
banking system. (Sheng, 1996) Fragility threshold for most developing
countries: a sustained 4-5% growth.
(5) Monetization/Financial Depth           A relatively deep financial system (higher M2 ratio) tends to be more resilient
(M2 as % of GDP)                      and better able to absorb shocks. Financial fragility threshold: 30%
(6) Domestic Credit Growth (in real tenns)  Excessive growth in real credit (more than twice the rate of GDP growth) is
(i) Private sector                     widely found to increase financial fragility (Kaminsky and Reinhart, 1996).
(ii) Public sector                     Reasons: rapid credit growth often leads to a deterioration in loan quality by
hampering effective credit assessment; loan quality may also suffer as
distressed banks resort to rollover of bad loans to cover the extent of NPLs.
(7) Money Supply Growth                    Excessive money supply growth creates inflationary pressures and, among
(M2, %)                               other things, may lead to disintermediation.
0 
o  N



YEMEN
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
Proposed Monitoring Indicators/Measures
11. Banking System                      Indicators                                               Implications                                          Progress
1995  ]  1996  J  1997
(1) Capital Adequacy                       Inadequate capital to cushion losses is a key reason of fragility in a bankiig
Capital/risk-weighted assets (%)      system. The minimum risk-weighted capital-asset ratio of 8% is required to
be met by end-December 1997 under the CBY circular of July 1996.
(2) Asset Quality                          Non-standard loans in excess of 10% are considered risky for the financial
Non-standard loans*/ Total loans (%)    system and could lead to banking crises. (Sheng, 1996; Caprio, 1996)
(3) Liquidity/intermediation Level         Very low values (less than 30%) of the loans/deposits ratio indicate weak
(a) Loans/Deposits (%)                 intermediation and conservative lending, leading to increased fragility. Low
(b) Deposits/M2 (%)                    values of the deposits/M2 ratio indicate lack of confidence in the banking
sector and low levels of internediation.
111. Micro/
Institutional fragility                                                                                                                         1995      1996      1997
Indicators
(I) Real Interest Rates                    Excessively high and prolonged real interest rates greatly increase the fragility
(i) Deposits                           of the financial system. High real deposit rates (in excess of 10%) may reflect
(ii) Loans                             imprudent risk-taking by bankers, while high real lending rates (in excess of
30%) are often caused by "distress borrowing". Negative or very low real
interest rates lead to disintermediation and credit misallocation. Very large
(e.g., 10-20%) spreads may indicate serious incentive problems on the part of
bankers. (Sheng, 1996; Galbis, 1993)                                    __  _            _
(2) Domestic Accounting and                Poor quality accounting and auditing systems exacerbate the problem of
Auditing Standards.                     asymmetric information, thus undermining public confidence in the integrity
(a) Standard Board established         of the financial system and greatly contributing to its fragility.
(b) Accounting Standards established   _
(3) Prudential bank regulations issued and  Effective prudential regulations and supervision play a key role in ensurinlg
supervision systems and capacity        financial stability.
improved.
* Non-standard loans include (i) substandard loans (over 90 days delinquent); (ii) doubtftl loans (over 180 days delinquent); and (iii) bad loans (over one year delinquent).  c U
" 04
p



Annex 5
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section 1:   Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Identification/Preparation Mission     January 17, 1997
(b)   Pre-appraisal Mission                  None
(c)   Project prepared by                    The Government/IDA
(d)   Departure of Appraisal Mission         May 13, 1997
(e)   Negotiations                           August 25-29, 1997
(f)    Board Presentation                    November 4, 1997
(g)   Credit Effectiveness                   Within 90 days after credit
signing
Section II:   Special Implementation Actions
None



Annex 6
Republic of Yemen
Statement of IDA Credits
(As of September 30, 1997)
Difference
Original Amount in US$   Between expected
Millions             and actual
disburs. a/
Project  Credit No.  Fiscal                                                                                            Form.
ID                  Year           Borrower                  Purpose            IDA    Cancel  Undisb        Orig Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 87
Active Loans
39171   IDAN0340   1998   Government of Yemen         Seeds & Ag. Services        12.50     0.00    12.52      0.00    0.00
41199   IDA29530    1997   Government of Yemen        Social Fund Devpt           30.00     0.00    29.53     29.98    0.00
43367   IDA29130    1997   Government of Yemen        Taiz W.S. Pilot Proj        10.20     0.00     8.36      8.88    0.00
48522   IDA29320    1997   Government of Yemen        Flood Emergency             30.00     0.00    27.06     28.82    0.00
41267   IDA28190    1996   Government of Yemen        Transport Rehab.            37.00     0.00    32.86     36.21     0.00
43109   IDA28780    1996   Government of Yemen        Public Works                25.00     0.00    18.94     20.68    0.00
5912   IDA27930    1996   Government of Yemen        Voc. Training               24.30     0.00    20.87      23.73    0.00
5911   IDA25700    1994   Government of Yemen        Education Sector            33.00     0.00    30.79      31.18    0.00
5904   IDA24120    1993   Government of Yemen        Basic Education             19.70     0.00    12.28      11.91    0.00
5910   IDA25250    1993   Government of Yemen        Family Health               26.60     0.00    22.91      23.76   23.57
5810   IDA22990    1992   Government of Yemen        Nat.Agric.Sect.Mgmt         14.40     5.33      5.14     10.18    4.60
5836   IDA23730    1992   GovemmentofYemen           Land&WaterConserv.          32.80     5.04    12.72      16.79   11.86
5806   IDA21770    1991   Government of Yemen        Multi-Mode Transport        30.00     0.00       .23     -2.30    0.00
5835   IDA22220    1991   Government of Yemen        Secondary Teacher Tr        19.40     0.00      7.31      7.53    0.00
5892   IDA22650    1991   Min. of Fisheries          Fisheries IV                13.20     0.00      7.05      7.15    0.00
5808   IDA21600    1990   Government of Yemen        Taiz Flood Disaster         15.00     0.00      1.73      .27    0.00
5822   IDA21510    1990   Govemment of Yemen         Health Sector Dvlpmt        15.00     0.00    10.10       8.93    0.00
5878   IDA21640    1990   Government of Yemen        Power III                   15.50     0.00    11.56      10.63    0.00
5884   IDA21700    1990   Government of Yemen        Tarim Water Supply          12.00     0.00      6.76      6.08    0.00
5811   IDA20150    1989   Govemment of Yemen         Inst. Dev. For Pub.         10.80     2.63       .95      2.84     .23
5820   IDA19830    1989   Govemment of Yemen         Eastern Reg.                15.00     2.32      1.99      3.77    1.45
5893   IDA19440    1989   Government of Yemen        Al Mukalla Water            12.00     0.00      5.51      5.40    0.00
Total                                                                             453.40    15.32   287.17    292.42   41.71
Active Loans     Closed Loans       Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA)                   148.26           796.04         944.30
of which has been repaid                       0.00            54.80           54.80
Total now held by IBRD and IDA                   438.08          709.91         1,147.99
Amount sold                                        0.00             0.00           0.00
Of which repaid                                  0.00             0.00            0.00
Total Undisbursed                                287.17             3.18         290.35
a Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note: Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Annex 7
Yemen, Republic of
B. Statement of IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of May 31, 1997
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company          Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
Total Portfolio:             0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity   Ouasi  Partic
1996        TAJ SHEBA HOTEL        5.60    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:    5.60    0.00    0.00    0.00



