Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22228
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-29970; PPFI-Q0410; TF-27154)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 58.9 MILLION
(US$ 80 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
May 16, 2001
Private, Financial Sector and Infrastructure
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of their
official duties. Its contents ma not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 16, 2001)
Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial (YR)
YR 100 = US$ 0.60
US$ 1 = YR 166.5
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CACB                 Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank
CAMEL                Capital, Assets, Management, Earnings, and Liquidity
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CBY                  Central Bank of Yemen
ERC                  Economic Recovery Credit
FSAC                 Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
GOY                  Government of Yemen
IBY                  Industrial Bank of Yemen
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
IDA                  International Development Association
IMF                  International Monetary Fund
MOF                  Ministry of Finance
NBY                  National Bank of Yemen
NPL                  Non-Performing Loan
PDO                  Project Development Objective
PHRD                 Policy and Human Resources Development Grant
PPF                  Project Preparation Facility
TA                   Technical Assistance
YBRD                 Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:    Mahmood Ayub
Sector Director:    Emmanuel Forestier
Task Manager:    Elisabeth Sherwood



FOR OFFICL USE ONLY
YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF
RY-FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJ. CREDIT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                     8
6. Sustainability                                                                         9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                          9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       11
9. Partner Comments                                                                      12
10. Additional Information                                                               12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     13
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     14
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     16
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     17
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     19
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        20
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    21
Annex 8. Borrower's Completion Report                                                    22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P043 101                                     Project Name: RY-FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJ.
CREDIT
Team Leader: Elisabeth Sherwood                          TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: May 16, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: RY-FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJ. CREDIT               L/C/TF Number: IDA-29970;
PPFI-Q0410;
TF-27154
Country/Department: YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF                                  Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: BP - Privatization; FK - Capital Markets
Development; FS - Financial Sector Development
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 05/13/1997                               Effective:                    04/24/1998
Appraisal:  05/16/1997                               MTR:
Approval.  11/04/1997                              Closing: 06/30/1999          09/30/1999
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN/CENTRAL BANK
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:     Jean-Louis Sarbib                          Kemal Dervis
Country Manager:     Mahmood Ayub                              Inder Sud
Sector Manager:      Wafik Grais                               Nemat Shafik
Team Leader at ICR:   Elisabeth Sherwood                       Sarshar Khan
ICR Primary Author:  Ivan Christin
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS-Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Yemen Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC) was prepared by the International Development



Association (IDA) and the Government of Yemen (GOY) following the GOY's implementation of broad
economic stabilization and structural reforms under an IDA-supported Economic Recovery Credit (ERC).
The FSAC was to provide needed budgetary support -- US$80 million equivalent -- to the Government in a
period of continued structural adjustment following the unification of North and South Yemen, a civil war,
and significant currency devaluation and inflation.
The objective of the FSAC was broadly defined in the 1997 President's Report as to strengthen and
improve the efficiency of the financial sector in Yemen, which consisted at the time primarily of public and
private commercial banks. The objectives of the credit were further defined during initial supervision to
more fully reflect the conditionality of the tranche releases, and were restated as follows: (i) to increase the
soundness of the banking system; (ii) to reduce the Government's operational role in the financial sector;
and (iii) to strengthen accounting and auditing. These objectives were recognized as being long-term
strategic objectives for the sector for which FSAC conditionality and outputs would provide a foundation.
Quantitative sectoral indicators were followed for the first objective (see Annex 1), while outputs related to
tranche conditionality were used to track the progress toward the second and third objectives.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable
3.3 Original Components:
As an adjustment credit, the project did not include components as such. Disbursement of the Credit was
to be made in two tranches, US$ 50 million equivalent upon effectiveness, and US$ 30 million equivalent
upon completion of ten reform measures.
The actions to be completed under the FSAC, the principle ones of which are described below, were
presented in a matrix of reforms annexed to the President's Report. Reforms to be completed prior to
effectiveness were agreed during preparation and negotiation of the Credit; reforms for the second tranche
release were detailed in Schedule 2 of the FSAC's Development Credit Agreement. It should be noted that
not all aspects of the GOY's financial sector reform program described in the President's Report were
reflected in FSAC conditionality. This includes judicial reforms to improve loan recovery and the
introduction of banking training to improve credit analysis.
The main conditions of the FSAC are summarized in the following table. Further description of some
conditions follows.
Table: Major Tranche Conditionality
Objective            First Tranche Conditionality   Second Tranche Conditionality
Increase the soundness of the  Amendment of the Banking Law  Issuance of improved banking
banking system               Signing of memorandum of      regulations
understanding with banks ot in   Implementation of an institutional
compliance with prudential    development program
regulations                  Adoption of an action plan to
Amendment of tax law to allow   introduce financial leasing
deductability of loan loss
provisions from taxable income
- 2 -



Reduce Government's operational Deregulaition of banking fees and  Diagnostic reviews of the five
role and increase competition in  interest rates             public sector commercial and
the sector                    Reduction of reserve requirements specialized banks
and remumeration of reserves  Preparation and adoption of action
Elimination of public enterprise   plans for the resolution of the
access to, bank credit        three public specialized banks and
YBRD.
Offer for sale to a strategic
investor a majority stake in NBY
Improve accounting and auditing                              Issuance of accounting and
auditing standards for banks
Establishment of an Accounting
l _________________________    __________________________    Standards   B oard
Under the objective of increasing the sounidness of the banking system, reform conditionality focused
on legal and regulatory strengthening, capacity improvements within the supervision department of the
Central Bank of Yemen (CBY), and measures intended to increase provisions for bad debts and to reduce
future bad debt accumulation on banks' balance sheets. Specific measures included:
(i) Amend the Banking Law in order to (a) empower the Central Bank of Yemen (CBY) to force deficient
banks to adopt corrective measures and to lirnit banks' activities with related parties; (b) introduce
mandatory measures to be taken by the CBY when banks break laws and regulations; (c) adjust the size of
fines and authorize the CBY to impose fines; and (d) require CBY's approval for bank board members and
higher management as well as CBY's possible censure of these persons.
(ii) Issue improved prudential banking regulations, including loan classification and loan provisioning
standards (reflecting international practices), minimum capital requirements, capital adequacy (in line with
the Basle Agreement), external auditing, internal controls, credit risk management, bank liquidity, and
credit risk concentration and insider lending.
Under the objective of reducing Government's operational role and increasing competition in the
sector, several important reforms were completed prior to project effectiveness, including deregulating
banking fees and interest rates, reducing reserve requirements, remunerating reserves, and eliminating
public enterprise access to bank credit. As second tranche requirements, diagnostic financial and
operational reviews were to be undertaken for each of the public banks, decisions made regarding future
reforms, and action plans prepared to carry out those decisions. The public sector banks to which this
requirement applied were the Yemen Bank fcr Reconstruction and Development (YBRD), which was the
largest commercial bank, the Industrial Bank of Yemen, the Housing Credit Bank, and the Cooperative and
Agricultural Credit Bank (CACB). For the r emaining public sector bank -- the National Bank of Yemen
(the only bank in the forner South Yemen and therefore the largest bank in the southern part of the
country) -- preparation and offer for sale of a 51% stake in the bank was a condition of second tranche
release.
Under the objective of improving accounting and auditing, two measures were specified for second
tranche release: (i) CBY issuance of accounting and auditing standards for banks; and (ii) for the
commercial sector as a whole, establishment of an Accounting Standards Board that would establish and
- 3 -



enforce new financial reporting and auditing standards consistent with international standards. Both
measures were conditions for second tranche release.
3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
This project was not selected for a formal review of quality at entry, however, the ICR rates the FSAC's
quality at entry as marginally Unsatisfactory. This rating is due to the lack of financial or managerial
arrangements for technical assistance, the relatively weak relationship between the Credit's second-tranche
conditionality and its objectives (five conditions consisted of the preparation of and agreement on action
plans), and an unrealistic time frame for the implementation of reforms. Preparation of the project does not
appear to have taken into account the close relationships between banks and other businesses under the
same ownership and the effect that would have on the short-term implementation of reforms.
Despite these criticisms, the FSAC did include several tough effectiveness conditions that significantly set
the stage for the introduction of market-based financial intermediation. These include increasing deposit
rates to positive real levels, eliminating commercial bank lending to public enterprises, govemment
takeover of significant non-performing public enterprise debt on the balance sheets of YBRD and NBY,
and CBY issuance of several prudential regulations. In addition, Govemnment commitment to amendment
of the Banking Law was probably the result of World Bank and IMF efforts made during preparation of
the project.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The ICR rates the achievement of the project's objectives as Satisfactory. While the ambitious objectives
have not been fully achieved, significant progress has been made toward their achievement, and a
framework has been established that will assist in their further progress. The achievements under each of
the project's objectives are described below.
Increase the Soundness of the Banking System: While under international standards of soundness
Yemen banks are still weak, particularly in terms of asset quality, reforms promoted by the Credit have
resulted in eight of the system's 13 banks being adequately capitalized, a significant improvement over the
pre-project situation in which no banks met a minimum 8 percent risk-weighted capital adequacy ratio.
The system-wide non-performing loan (NPL) ratio was estimated to be 34 percent (for 1999 and 2000),
most of which are provisioned for. Pre-project NPL estimates were estimated at about the same level,
however, subsequent improvements in identifying NPLs pushed estimates as high as 40 percent.
Improvements have resulted from greater bank attention to NPLs, better enforcement of provisioning
requirements, and significant repayments and govemment assumptions of NPLs at the public sector banks,
which held the largest of the non-performing loans in the system.
While lending to the private sector remains the lowest in the Middle East, there has been an increase in
lending since the implementation of reforms. Total lending to the private sector in 1996 was YR 23 billion,
or 4.91 percent of non-oil GDP. End-1999 lending to the private sector, adjusted for inflation to 1996
levels, more than doubled in absolute terms, and was approximately 8.7 percent of non-oil GDP. However,
loans as a percent of total assets and deposits have remained relatively constant -- at end-1999,
loan-to-asset ratio was only 24 percent, while loans-to-deposits was 28 percent. These low numbers reflect
the continuing constraints to financial intermediation that exist in the economy as a whole -- extremely
weak creditor protection, weakness of the judiciary, inability to seize collateral security, ineffectiveness of
- 4 -



the land registration system, and the absence of reliable financial and operational information of potential
borrowers. With the exception of conditions related to accounting and auditing, these issues were beyond
the scope of the Credit.
Additional portfolio improvement and increased lending will require continuing reforms within the judicial
system, to enable lenders to induce repayment from capable borrowers, and better enforcement capacity
within the CBY, to compel insiders or related borrowers to repay loans. Increases in new lending will
ultimately depend on new investment opportunities within Yemen.
Reducing the Government's Operational Role and Increasing Competition: Mixed success
characterized the objective of reducing the Government's operational role and increasing competition in the
sector. Public enterprise borrowing from the banking system was stopped, and interest-rate controls were
lifted, but private-sector lending to the economy remains low due the problems listed above, as well as to
the relatively high returns of Government treasury bills and the high level of non-YR deposits, which are
then deposited in banks abroad. Despite the fact that four banks have been opened since the FSAC, the
main business of banks remains deposit-taking and the purchase of treasury bills (for YR deposits) and
deposits in foreign banks (for foreign exchange deposits).
Government's direct operational role in banking was to have been reduced through the privatization of
NBY, the restructuring of YBRD, and refor.ms of the specialized public banks. Due to delays in the
preparatory steps necessary for privatization, the conditionality for the offer for sale of a majority stake in
NBY was waived. Work has continued on the preparation for sale, but an offering memorandum has not
yet been finalized. With respect to YBRD, the technical tranche requirement -- preparation and adoption of
an action plan for the future of the bank -- was met, and the bank has been recapitalized and its portfolio
significantly improved (NPLs are currently 50 percent as opposed to 80 percent at the end of 1998),
however, overstaffing and high expenses are serious issues that have not been addressed. With respect to
the specialized banks, the Government took the significant step of liquidating the insolvent Industrial Bank.
However, implementation of the action plans for the other two public banks has been slow.
Private sector banks now hold over two-thirds of the assets of the banking sector, compared to
approximately 55 percent several years ago. The public sector commercial banks still have much wider
branch networks, and it is unlikely that other banks will open branches outside of the main cities.
Strengthening Accounting and Auditing: The objective of strengthening accounting and auditing was
partially met. Within areas under the control of the CBY -- i.e., accounting and auditing standards for
banks -- new standards were issued and cotmnunicated to both banks and auditing firms, and the first
financial statements using the new standards have been completed. However, there has been no concurrent
improvement in accounting and auditing standards for the corporate sector, and therefore the intended goal
of increasing the ability of banks to rely on borrower's financial statements has not been met.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The results of the conditionality of the Credit are as follows:
Legal and regulatory reforms: The Banking Law has been revised. Parliament approval for the revised
law was reached in December 1998. Criteria for issuing banks' licenses were improved; members of the
Board of Directors have been made accountable for misbehavior proven in the courts, and related penalties
have been spelled out; more generally, penalties have been specified for infractions of the Law and of
subsequent regulations. Leasing has been included in the list of banking activities. The Law also stipulates
that loan loss provisions established in accordance with CBY directives are not taxable.
- 5 -



The inclusion of leasing as an activity under the banking law allows CBY to develop a more comprehensive
legal framework for leasing, including a Leasing Law and related regulations concerning licensing policies
and procedures and the inclusion of leasing activities in reporting requirements and in supervision. The
Government prepared an action plan for the creation of a more widespread framework for leasing, which
was a second-tranche release condition, but the CBY and the banking community do not appear to consider
leasing to be any safer than other forms of lending (due to the inability to seize property), and therefore
have not pursued the issue.
Amendments to the Tax Law to exclude bank provisions from taxation were submitted to Parliament,
meeting a first-tranche release condition, and were passed. Tax authorities seem to have eventually
accepted the argument that provisions are not taxable.
CBY has issued satisfactory regulations for banks concerning loan classification, foreign exchange
exposure and, after enactment of the new Banking Law, credit risk concentration and insider lending.
Although there are problems with full enforcement of the regulations, several banks have fully accepted the
limits, and others have reduced insider and large credit exposures.
Supervision Capacity: On the whole, CBY supervision capacity has improved tremendously. An
IMF-funded resident banking supervision advisor and short-term consultants assisted the CBY in the
implementation of a multi-year development plan for the supervision department. Accounting standards for
banks consistent with International (and/or Islamic) Accounting standards have been defined and issued to
the banks and have now been in effect a year. Information conveyed through these standards has
noticeably improved in terms of consistency, scope and quality. The off-site supervision function has been
enhanced thanks to the adoption of reporting packages that facilitate the periodic prudential monitoring and
analysis of banks. CBY is currently able to issue a Bank Performance Report for each bank, and financial
ratios have been introduced that provide information for monitoring of individual banks. A CAMEL-based
risk rating system has also been prepared and implemented. Currently, CBY supervisory functions are
compliant or largely compliant with key core principles established by the Basle Committee; the notable
shortcoming is the weakness of the CBY's enforcement authority.
The CBY reached agreement in 1999 with private banks identified in 1997 as being out of compliance with
the banking law and regulations, thereby meeting a second-tranche condition. Unfortunately, at least one of
the banks does not appear to have implemented the agreement, and the CBY has not been able to enforce
the conditions. The banks chosen for this requirement were identified as being in violation before the CBY
was fully capable of identifying banks out of compliance, and FSAC conditionality did not require
improvement plans for banks later identified as non-compliance. In addition, two of the specialized banks
remain non-complliant, and are not actively supervised by the CBY.
Reduction of Government involvement in the financial sector: Government successfully reduced its
controls on financial sector intermediation as first-tranche release conditions, including deregulating fees
and charges, allowing lending in foreign exchange, reducing reserve requirements to 15 percent of deposits,
and remunerating required reserves. Equally important, banking sector credit to public enterprises was
significantly limited (private banks were largely not exposed to public sector non-performing debt), and the
MOF and CBY took over much of the non-perforning public enterprise debt on the books of the public
banks.
With the exception of the privatization requirement for one of the public banks, the requirements related to
reducing Government's ownership in the financial sector were relatively narrow. The FSAC required that
- 6 -



similar steps be taken for each of the majority public sector-owned banks -- a detailed diagnostic and
financial audit, an analysis of the alternatives for the futures of each of the banks (liquidation,
restructuring, merger, or privatization), a decision taken on the part of the Government, and an action plan
prepared for each bank and adopted by the Governnent. Notably, the action plan for IBY was carried out,
and the bank liquidated. The action plan for the Housing Bank has not been pursued, however, the
management of CACB has begun to pursue activities to strengthen that bank.
With respect to YBRD, the Government took the decision to restructure the bank based on a detailed
diagnostic review, thereby meeting a key second-tranche condition. In doing so, the Government committed
itself to admittedly difficult decisions such as firing Board members who had acted inappropriately, taking
over remaining non-performing loans to public enterprises, recapitalizing the bank using funds from the
sale of real estate, and drastically reducing the work force. Several of these actions have taken place, but
the most difficult restructuring item -- the politically sensitive issue of excess staff-- has not yet been
resolved.
Although the decision to privatize NBY was taken prior to 1998, no offer for sale has yet been made. The
diagnostic review for the bank was successfully completed, albeit with some delays, while non-performiing
loans to public enterprises were removed firom the bank's portfolio and bank management slowly undertook
changes in the bank's operations. The work of the financial advisor hired to privatize the bank has been
slow, and the general difficulties faced in Yemen have been compounded by contradictory messages from
the Government. The condition of offer for sale of the bank was waived, but the process has continued and
the offer may take place by mid-2001.
Improving Accounting and Auditing: The specific condition related to the objective of improving
accounting and auditing -- establishment of an accounting standards board -- was waived after stakeholders
were unable to come to agreement on chairmanship of the Board. This was unfortunately a key
opportunity to bring accounting, auditing, and corporate disclosure issues to the open that was lost. The
objective of the conditionality was partially met, however, through the CBY's issuance of accounting and
auditing standards for banks, which are being adhered to.
4.3 Net Present Value/lEconomic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project on the CBY has been substantial. The Banking law has
been revised. Although not fully compliant with the standards set by the Basle Committee, the Central
Bank is making every effort to follow up on this issue and to prepare related amendments. Satisfactory
regulations have been issued by the CBY, thus establishing basic standards of behavior for the banks;
banks are now clearly informed about what they can and cannot do, especially in terms of lending (lending
in foreign currencies, lending to a few maoor clients, lending to insiders, classification of loans, etc.). CBY
supervision capacity has significantly improved, the financial standing of Yemeni banks is more visible and
meaningful to CBY, and adequate reporting packages, financial ratios, and risk rating systems allow the
Central Bank to analyze, monitor and assess the banks on a consistent and periodic basis.
With the exception of YBRD and NBY (where positive managerial changes and the frequent interaction
with financial advisors appear to have resulted in real institutional changes), institutional improvements
- 7 -



have not been made in other agencies involved in the project. In particular, no institutional capacity for
upgrading corporate accounting and auditing standards was established.
It should be noted that despite the improved foundation for banking supervision, enforcement remains
weak. For several reasons (lack of experience, a preference on using moral suasion instead of sanctions,
lack of political independence, and the general business culture) the CBY has not fully enforced its
regulations. The CBY is in the process of building credibility, which could be seriously weakened if it
publicly lost a major confrontation. Finally, the very serious weaknesses in the Yemen judicial system,
which were not -- and realistically could not have been -- addressed in the context of this project, work
against the institutionalization of the financial sector reforms promoted by the project. The successes of the
reforms should be seen against this light.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The implementation of the project has been affected by some factors generally outside the control of the
Government. First, the project was to some extent delayed and activities reduced because of the difficulty
in finding, in a timely manner, high-caliber professionals willing to work in Yemen, which was
compounded by serious uncertainties in funding of technical assistance. Second, the time needed to achieve
concensus among stakeholders in the context of introducing legal, regulatory, and institutional reforms was
not fully appreciated when the project was designed and resulted in slower-than-expected implementation.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Generally low capacity to manage the recruitment and supervision of consultants hindered implementation
of several key components. IDA could have compensated for this by building into the project funds for
technical assistance and management. Failing this, Government could have used funds from the first
tranche. Both parties ultimately struggled to identify funding for and to manage technical assistance.
Creation of a permanent implementation capacity with representatives from or access to all the agencies
involved may have helped to smooth the implementation of several components. While in theory a program
implementation unit existed, in fact capacity rested in a few individuals burdened with many other tasks.
The strong relationship that developed between IDA staff and the CBY probably resulted in the more
complete and effective implementation of reforms related to the CBY, but the lack of direct and strong
communications channels with other Government agencies undoubtedly slowed other aspects of the project.
Reforms that required joint implementation -- such as the supervision of the public-sector specialized banks
-- were hindered by lack of direct involvement by all concemed parties.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Implementation of reforms that were the direct responsibility of the CBY was generally successful. The
greatest weakness of the implementing agency was its inability to influence other agencies responsible for
reforms, but this is a reflection of political conflicts between the responsible agencies rather than of
implementing agency competence.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
From the beginning, it was acknowledged that substantial technical assistance would be necessary to
achieve financial sector reform. However, no concrete arrangements were made to fund technical
assistance. A Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) grant and a Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) were used initially, but on disbursement of the first tranche of the credit, TA financing became an
issue. Government set aside some funds from the US$50 million-equivalent first tranche release for TA,
but generally preferred to try to identify grant funding. Excessive IDA staff time was spent on this issue,
- 8 -



and, in the end, less technical assistance was carried out than originally envisaged.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the completed reforms is likely. Sustainability is Highly Likely for those components
where there are sound institutional conditions for the development of banking, i.e., components related to
the legal and regulatory foundations of banking and to CBY capacity. The general growth of private sector
banks will continue; the one area where the ultimate outcome is unsure is the privatization of NBY. For
those components where little was accomplished during the project -- i.e., on leasing and on corporate
accounting standards -- unless a more comprehensive and results-oriented follow-up operation is
undertaken, sustainability is unlikely. Sustainability of all reforms would have been significantly enhanced
if a follow-on operation had been pursued.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operafions:
IDA staff have developed close and positive relationships with counterparts in Yemen, in particular with
the CBY and MOF staff. CBY and the MOF continue to update IDA on progress on particular
components, and communications continue between IDA and financial advisors working at NBY and
YBRD, despite disbursement of the second tranche and closure of the credit. In addition, there was recent
close cooperation between the Govenmuent, the World Bank, and the IMF in the context of the Financial
Sector Assessment Program (FSAP). This relationship is an effective instrument for continued reform, and
every effort should be made to support its continuance, both to ensure implementation of remaining reforms
from the FSAC and to pursue additional measures.
A follow-up PHRD grant was established to finance initial work on higher-level financial sector issues,
which unfortunately are probably too ambitious at this time. Government has shown a commitment to one
of the measures -- development of a stock exchange (as part of capital market development) -- whose
success seems unlikely given legal and informational barriers. However, if well designed, a simple
exchange could have positive effects on accounting, auditing, and disclosure standards.
A follow-up operation would ideally focus on more basic issues related to financial intermediation in
Yemen -- financial services used by households and small businesses, judicial and legal reforms, and
reform of land and property registration systems. IDA is currently implementing a Learning and
Innovation Credit that supports judicial reforms, and implementation is proceeding well. Further assistance
to judicial reforms could hold the largest promise for improved financial intermediation. Government has
expressed its commitment to the development of a stock exchange, and although the Bank would prefer
caution in this respect given the enormous constraints to bank-based corporate finance, as stated above a
well designed capital market could have positive effects on corporate accounting, auditing, and disclosure
that may ultimately filter to other sections of the economy.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Ba,zk
7.1 Lending:
The FSAC was based upon the findings and recommendations of a Financial Sector Note prepared in 1996.
The Government agreed with the recommendations of the Note and discussed the Note in detail during
preparation of the FSAC. This ensured consistency with the Government's objectives and the Bank's CAS.
The Note was necessarily narrow in scope, addressing primarily banking issues. Lack of information about
many aspects of the banking sector resulted in a project focused on public sector institutions -- the Central
Bank and state-owned banks. This focus was appropriate given the state of the system and the limits of an
-9-



adjustment operation.
Project appraisal was weak in several respects -- ensuring Govermment commitment to reformns;
establishing meaningful second-tranche conditions that could be implemented within the time frame of an
adjustment operation; inadequate preparation and funding arrangement for technical assistance; and
establishing adequate implementation capacity. Some of these weaknesses would have been lessened had
more time been allotted to project preparation.
Because of the weaknesses of project design, Bank preparation and appraisal performance is rated as
marginally Unsatisfactory. It should be stated that the above design weaknesses may not be possible to be
overcome in the context of an adjustment credit. The weakness of second tranche conditions (i.e., the
preponderance of "action plans") and their weak links to project objectives may have been unavoidable in a
two-tranche operation. This is further discussed under the Lessons Learned section.
7.2 Supervision:
Project supervision was Satisfactory. Supervision missions were organized at appropriate intervals and
related back-to-office reports and form 590s/PSRs were accurately drafted in a timely manner. Within the
project design, the supervision team was realistic in its assessment of the progress made by the project.
Delays in implementation were identified in due time and solutions were sought as quickly as possible to
solve the underlying difficulties. Contacts with Yemeni counterparts were frequent and appropriate. PDO
ratings -- which remained as Satisfactory throught the project -- reflected the long-run direction of reforms
and the achievement of requirements rather than the achievement of stated objectives. When in mid 1998 it
became clear that several key conditions would not be met, and that in some cases the spirit of the
conditions, if not the letter, would not be met, the task team downgraded IP ratings to Unsatisfactory and a
meeting was held to address the key substantive issues and devise an action plan. Appropriate
recommendations were made and transmitted to the Yemeni counterparts for agreement. Although the
second-tranche release date was postponed over a year, all but two second-tranche release conditions were
met. For the more visible of the two conditions that were not met (offer for sale of 51 percent of NBY), the
task team made every effort, in coordination with Yemeni counterparts, to ensure that there was continued
progress toward the related objective.
The supervision team was aware of the shortcomings of the project design in terms of technical assistance
and implementation capacity and tried to compensate. It should be noted that there were several changes in
task managers over the course of implementation; for a limited period of time shortly following release of
the first tranche, the Bank team followed the progress of reforms, but did not have in-depth knowledge of
the issues. There was a concurrent change in the IMF team as well. The gap was corrected over time, and
probably did not affect the long-term success of the reforms. Although no follow-up operation is currently
envisaged, the team has stayed engaged with country and IMF counterparts.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The ICR rates overall Bank performance as Satisfactory based on the quality of supervision and the
supervision team's attention to the spirit of the reform program, in addition to the letter of program
conditionality. IDA succeeded in steadily building trust and momentum with the GoY, and it pursued and
maintained an excellent cooperative relationship with the IMF. In several instances IDA encouraged the
incorporation of FSAC conditionality (the privatization of NBY) and follow-on tasks (e.g., implementation
of the restructuring of YBRD) into IMF conditionality matrices, ensuring completion and consistency of
reforms. Regarding its treatment of the constraints to project implementation, IDA's flexibility was
appropriate. The excellent cooperative mood that prevailed over the project's life was never jeopardized.
Well after full disbursement of the loan, both parties (IDA and the Borrower), as well as the IMF, are
- 10-



engaged in a continued dialogue to bring the project to a positive end.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower perfornance during preparation of the project is rated as Satisfactory. The Government relied
heavily on the Bank for the design of the project, but brought a general commitment to reform of the
economy and to key structural reforms of the financial sector.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's performance during implementation was marginally Unsatisfactory. While the
Government consistently affirmed its commitment to reform, and agreed to implementation plans and
time-frames, it was slow or reluctant to take firm actions. There were several areas where stronger
Government commitment and intervention would have helped to speed or effect implementation -- notably,
restructuring and privatization of NBY and establishment of the Accounting Standards Board.
Government was consistently cooperative anad helpful to IDA, however, providing information and
assistance in a timely manner.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency -- the Central Bank -- is rated as Satisfactory. It successfully
implemented most of the tasks related to improving supervisory capacity and legal and regulatory changes.
The implementing agency was less successful in those tasks that required the agreement of and coordination
with other government agencies. Broader input into project and implementing agency design may have
prevented this.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the performance of the Borrower is rated as satisfactory. Capacity within the Central Bank to
implement reforms under its responsibility was good, but capacity to implement reforms in other areas was
weak. The Minister of Finance and Governor of the Central Bank remained committed to the stated
requirements of the project, most of which were achieved. However, the achievement of the waived
conditions remains in question; while an offer for sale of NBY may eventually be made, there does not
appear at this time to be Government interest in pursuing accounting standards. Also, the degree of
internal capacity to plan and implement financial sector reforms, as well as the capacity to undertake
difficult reforms with political ramifications (e.g., signficant staff cuts at YBRD, enforcement of new laws
and regulations), remains weak.
8. Lessons Learned
Two key lessons emerge from the analysis of the FSAC. The first is that for a sector suffering from
significant distortions and in a country with relatively low technical capacity, a policy-based adjustment
credit needs to be complemented by technical assistance that supports both affected agencies (such as the
Central Bank and the public sector banks) and implementation capacity. Lack of a reliable source of
technical assistance funds caused IDA staff to spend an unusual amount of time trying to recruit outside
donors, writing terms of reference and recruiting consultants, and re-prioritizing assistance based on
immediate needs and loan conditionality.
A related lesson that needs to be stressed is that full-time advisors are probably the greatest prerequisites to
successful institutional development, as seen in the examples of the IMF-funded banking supervision
advisor and of a Government-funded advisor to YBRD. Had a small team been engaged in Yemen
throughout the program implementation period, local capacity and attention to reform measures would have
been greatly enhanced. Not only would the technical conditionality of the Credit been more easily achieved,
- 11 -



but local buy-in to follow-up of reform commitments would likely have been enhanced.
The other lesson learned is to set realistic objectives that are clearly associated with Credit conditionality.
While it is understood that objectives are long term in nature, and unlikely to be met in full, in this instance
the level of "prepare and adopt action plan" conditionality could have little effect on the achievement of
objectives. Had such conditionality been tied to a first or second tranche release, with the achievement of
particular actions or indicators the conditionality for a final tranche release, fuller achievement of
objectives would have been more likely. Designing the Credit in such a way would have enforced a more
realistic time frame as well. Altematively, the Bank could have pursued a follow-on operation to
encourage the fulfillment of the action plans.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower had no comments on the copy of the ICR sent by the World Bank. The Borrower provided
its own completion report, which is attached to this ICR as Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
- 12 -



Annex I. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
indicator/Matrix                    Projected In fast PSR                  AclLatet Esftmate
Macro-Economic Indicators:
M2/GDP                                 na                                     1997:  52%
1998:  53%
1999:  47%
M2 Growth                              na                                     1997:  10.7%
1998:  11.7%
1999:  12.2%
Real Domestic Credit Growth (Private)  na                                     1997:  29.6%
1998:  45.3%
1999:  13.4%
Real Domestic Credit Growth (Public)   na                                     1997:  46.6%
1998:  31.4%
1999:  3%
Real Interest Rates:
Deposits                                                                    1995:  -43%
1996:  -7%
1997:  4.7%
1998:  3.0%
1999:  8.4%
Loans                                                                       1995:  -34%
1996:  1%
1997:  12%
1998:  9%
1999:  15.9%
Banking Sector Indicators:
Risk-Weighted Capital Adequacy Ratio                                          1997:  0.6%
1998:  2.5%
1999:  5.2%
Asset Quality (Non-Standard Loans/Total                                       1997:  38.9%
Loans)                                                                        1998:  35%
1999:  33.8%
Uquidity/Intermediation Indicators
Loans,Deptsits (%)                                                          1997:  25%
1998:  27%
1999:  27.3%
Deposits/M2 (%)                                                             1997:  49%
1998:  52%
1999:  50%
Output Indicators:                       _
Indlator/Matfix                     Projected In last PSR                  Actsl/ates Estmate
Prudential bank regulations issued                                            Achieved
Banking supervision capacity improved                                         Achieved
Accounting Standards Board established                                        Not achieved
Accountng standards (commercial)                                              Not achieved
established
End of project
- 13 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              US$ million    US$ million
Total Baseline Cost                                   0.00            0.00
Total Project Costs              0.00
Total Financing Required               0.00            0.00
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category    :CB          Procurement Method  z         N.B.F.     TotalCCost
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _N _ _ _  O th er~   . . .T t l C s
1. Works                      0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                      0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00°       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
.______________ _  (0.00)  (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB           NCB        Ote2           N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                      0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                      0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
- 14 -



5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
_____________  (0.00)  (0(0.)      (0.00          (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
_    (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
roJ        .               S                                   g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percentage of Appraisal
t  Cornponent          Appraisal 1E3mate             Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.      CoF.      Bank       Govt.     CoF,    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
- 15 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable.
- 16-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS. etc.)      Implementation   Development
Month/Year   Count             Specialty                        Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
07/96                        1   Task Manager
2   Financial Specialists
I   Capital Market Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
05/97                        1   Task Manager
4   Financial Specialist
I   Financial and Regulatory
Specialist
I   Banking Supervision
Specialist
I   Economist
Supervision
12/97                        1   Task Manager                          S               S
I   Financial and Regulatory
Specialist
I   Banking Specialist
I   Operations Officer
06/98                        1   Task Manager (outgoing)               S               S
1   Financial Sector Specialist/ Task
Manager (incoming)
I   Banking Specialist
I   Financial and Regulatory
Specialist
1   Operations Officer
08/98                        1   Senior Financial Sector               U               S
Specialist/Task Manager
11/98                        1   Senior Financial Sector              U                S
Specialist/ Task Manager
02/99                        1   Senior Financial Sector               U               S
Specialist/Task Manager
05/99                        1   Senior Financial Sector               U               S
SpecialisVTask Manager
I   Financial Sector Specialist
I   Operations Officer
2   Banking Specialists
08/99                        1   Senior Financial Sector               S               S
Specialist/ Task Manager
ICR
N/A
- 17 -



(b) Staff
|     Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                  55.4                          190.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                       63.6                          230.9
Supervision                                 80. 1                         286.5
ICR                                          6.0                           11.8
Total                                      105.1                          719.4
- 18 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Sector Policies                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
I Physical                                OH   OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Financial                               O H  O" SU C M  O N  * NA
M Institutional Development                0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
F Environmental                           0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
Social
I Poverty Reduction                 0 H  O SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
Z Gender                           OC u  O SU O M  O N  * NA
O Other (Please specify)            0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
LI Private sector development             0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management                0 Hi 0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 19 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
Lending                                           OHS OS   *U  OHU
F Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
Z Preparation                                        OHS OS  O  U  O HU
F Government implementation performance              O HS O S  *  U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                  OHS * S  O  U  O HU
F Overall                                            OHS OS  O  U  O HU
- 20 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Yemen Financial Sector Note, World Bank, November, 1996
Yemen Financial Sector Adjustment Credit, President's Report, November, 1997
Project Supervision Reports (PSRs), Form 590s, Aide-Memoires, and Back-to-Office reports, 1997-1999
Quarterly Statistical Bulletins, Central Bank of Yemen, 1998-1999
Industrial Bank of Yemen, Housing Credit Bank, Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank, Diagnostic
Audits, KPMG-Hazem Hassan Mejani, December, 1999
National Bank of Yemen, Diagnostic Audit, Ernst and Young, LLP, January, 1999
Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Draft Diagnostic Audit, Ernst and Young, LLP, July
1999
Yemen: Review of Compliance with. Basel Core Principles for Banking Supervision, World Bank, July,
1999
Yemen Financial Sector Adjustment Credit, President's Memorandum for Second Tranche Release,
September, 1999
Status and Requirements for Establishing a Yemen Securities Market, Arab Monetary Fund, November,
1999
Yemen Comprehensive Development Review: Financial Sector Building Block, World Bank, January, 2000
- 21 -



Annex 8. Borrower's Completion Report
1. Project objectives, design, implementation and operation experience.
The project's main purpose was to support reforms designed to increase the soundness of the banking sector
and strengthen its role in the mobilization of financial resources. To accomplish this, the reform measures
focused on 10 sub-objectives:
a. to improve the enabling legal and regulatory framework for the banking sector;
b. to increase compliance with international standards of capital adequacy and loan loss provisioning;
c. to strengthen the monitoring, supervision, and enforcement functions of the Central Bank of Yemen;
d. to improve accounting and auditing standards of banks;
e. to improve the governance of banks and accountability of their boards of directors;
f. to introduce measures to improve bank loan recovery;
g. to undertake diagnostic reviews of public sector banks to enable the Government to decide on their
future;
h. to take urgent steps to reduce the risk exposure of two main public sector banks and privatize one of
them;
i. to establish an Accounting Standards Board to improve the timeliness and quality of the financial
statements of borrowers;
j. to develop a legal and regulatory framework for financial leasing.
The expected benefits to be derived from achieving these directives are:
a. increased soundness of the banking system;
b. ensured financial discipline within the banking sector;
c. improved bank loan portfolios;
d. reduced role of Government and increased competition in the banking sector;
e. strengthened accounting and auditing.
Assessment
The objectives were well conceived and interrelated in that achievement of one objective would have a
salutary effect on others. The combined effect would significantly improve the overall condition of the
banking system in Yemen as well as the other desired benefits.
The design of the project was direct and clear. Many tasks related to the attainment of each objective were
set forth in a matrix format. Implementing agency responsibilities and target completion dates relative to
each task were listed in the matrix. The document was supplemented with an "institutional development
plan" in a similar detailed matrix format to achieve the objective of strengthening banking supervision. The
primary implementing agencies, appropriately, were the Central Bank of Yemen (CBY) and the Ministry of
Finance (MOF). Each agency also acted as a sponsor or motivator for certain tasks that required decisions
and actions by other ministries, the Parliament, or the Prime Minister's Office. Progress was monitored
periodically by World Bank staff during missions to Yemen and between those missions using various
reporting channels.
These matrices were used as work plans by the implementing agencies. The overall project design and
process for implementation were sound. In the process of executing these plans, additional needed elements
became evident and were added as work plan elements by the implementing agencies.
- 22 -



Because responsibilities were clearly defined at the outset, implementation was not hindered by "territorial"
disputes. Delays in implementation often derived from the pace of governmental processes and need for
broad discussion, coordination and obtaining consensus.
Implementation in certain technical areas was facilitated through employment of donor-funded advisors.
This approach and methodology worked well.
2. Evaluation of Yemen's performrance during evolution and implementation of the project
The project accomplished, to various extents, the objectives established for the project, although some of
the desired benefits remain to be seen. Activities are still underway in several areas, and these must be
completed before objectives would be fully met. The following is a summary of Yemen's performance
against each objective and the attendant results.
a. Legal-regulatory framework for banking.
A new Banking Law was passed in December 1998 after considerable discussion at all stages of the
process. The law enhanced the supervisory authority and enforcement powers of the Central Bank.
Several areas of supervisory concern that existed within the banking system are specifically addressed in
the new law. The law is adequate for effective supervision, except for a few areas that have been noted in
the Core Principles Assessment performed by the World Bank. A draft revision incorporates new or
amended articles to remedy the deficiencies noted as well as other proposed changes that are based upon the
past year's experience with the new law.
The Central Bank of Yemen has issued a comprehensive framework of regulations (circulars). Although
these can be refined and are in process of revision, they are satisfactory in their present form and scope for
prudential supervision and to implement the Banking Law. One notable exception is the area of banks'
corporate govemance, particularly relating to the banks' boards of directors. A circular conceming the
duties and responsibilities of directors is being drafted.
The legal and regulatory framewcirk is adequate, but the implementation of the requirements in these
documents has not been fully effective, leaving a significant level of non-compliance that must be dealt with
through enforcement actions.
b. Compliance with intemational standards for capital adequacy and loan loss provisioning.
CBY has prescribed a risk-weighted capital adequacy methodology that is consistent with the Basel
Accord. Banks are required to calculate and report their capital adequacy ratio quarterly. Additionally, by
law and by decree, the minimum paid-in capital requirement has been increased each year over the past
several years. The result has been an improvement in systemic capital adequacy, but the ratio still is short
of the international standard of 8o. Each bank that is deficient is being dealt with through CBY
enforcement powers.
CBY has prescribed minimum specific provisions against various categories of non-performing loans
consistent with intemational supervisory practice. Compliance, in several instances, has been poor. The
lack of adequate provisions has been the primary deterrent to attaining capital adequacy. Noncompliance
has been dealt with in several ways. First, the provisioning requirements have been incorporated into the
Yemeni Accounting Standards for banks. Effective 31 December 1999, annual audited financial statements
cannot receive a clean opinion from the external auditor unless the provisioning is in accordance with CBY
standards. Secondly, CBY has begun to incorporate this item in its supervisory agreements with banks,
- 23 -



and is enforcing penalties for noncompliance. The agreements contain requirements that the deficient bank
not only must make adequate provisions, must also install proper methodology to maintain provisions at
adequate levels. Third, CBY has prohibited banks not in compliance with provisioning requirements (and
capital adequacy requirements) from distributing dividends to shareholders.
c. Strengthening the monitoring, supervision and enforcement functions of CBY.
A great deal of progress has been made in this area. Significant items/actions included:
(i) the issuance of the enabling law and the development of a comprehensive framework of regulations as
described above;
(ii) the development of a periodic reporting package and computerized analysis systems to provide a much
broader range of information for offsite prudential analysis;
(iii) the development of an onsite examination procedures manual, work paper and report formats to assist
examiners;
(iv) the development of a bank rating system to categorize banks according to their risk profiles and the
implementation of risk-based supervisory strategies for each bank;
(v) the development of a risk-based supervision policy, a policy for the imposition of fines and penalties,
and the development of models for enforcement actions against problem institutions;
(vi) the issuance of accounting standards for banks;
(vii) the introduction of meetings with the boards of directors by the CBY Govemor and Sub-Governor for
Supervision after each bank examination to discuss the findings and the remedial action required;
(viii) recruitment of better qualified staff and periodic salary adjustments to make the salary scale
competitive with the banking sector; and
(ix) the provision of several classroom training courses for Banking Supervision Sector staff in bank
accounting, examination methodology, and bank analysis.
The preceding elements provide a nucleus for satisfactory banking supervision. The tools and methods
introduced during the project period are only now being used. The overall quality of supervision activity
has improved. Continued training of staff and implementation experience are needed before the supervision
function will be fully effective.
d. Improvement in accounting and auditing standards for banks.
CBY issued a regulation providing guidelines for external auditors that prescribed international auditing
standards to be used when performing the annual audit of banks' financial statements. The regulation
specified the role and responsibilities of external auditors to their clients and to the Central Bank. Also,
CBY issued accounting standards for banks. The Accounting Standards are applicable to the preparation
of the year-end financials, beginning with the December 1999 statements, and the periodic reports to be
submitted to CBY.
Successful implementation required adequate accounting systems within the banks, technically competent
bank management and staff, and a degree of integrity in the management of banks and in the extemal
auditors of banks. These characteristics have proven to be in limited supply. CBY has yet to witness
marked improvement in the quality of financial data submitted. An evaluation of the extemal auditors'
adherence to the standards is in process.
e. Improvement in govemance and accountability of banks' boards of directors.
This area has not improved as a result of the project. Generally, bank boards tend to be dominated by
majority, self-serving owners to the detriment of the banks, their depositors, and their minority
shareholders. There is a notable lack of policies and internal control systems and technically competent
staff. MIS are weak. The Banking Law does not provide sufficient removal powers to CBY to get rid of
- 24 -



offending directors. CBY can only act if they have been convicted of offenses in a court of law. The
present legal system in Yemen is deficient, and proper/correct judgements are not assured. CBY has not
tried to reconstitute problem boarcds or to assess fines against offending members. Therefore, the
individuals responsible for most problems in the banking system remain in place.
f. Measures to improve bank loan recovery.
This area has been a longstanding problem within Yemen's banking system. There has been improvement,
deriving in part from the institution of the "notification list" of non-performing borrowers, which has
discouraged new credit to these borrowers and put pressure on them to service their obligations properly.
To an increasing degree, as CBY rmore stringently enforces them, the classification and provisioning
directives have caused banks to focus more closely on potential credit weaknesses at the point of
origination. Banks have become increasingly aware of the cost of problem loans in terms of the impact on
earnings of required provisioning and cessation of interest accruals, and their composite effect on capital.
Collection of credits extended to large borrowers and insiders, which constitute significant portions of the
portfolios of several banks, although still not satisfactory, is improving.
It is widely acknowledged that the commercial court system does not function rationally. Previous efforts
to establish special courts for creditors' claims have not been successful. Where judgements against
defaulting parties are obtained, they are difficult to enforce. The Government recognizes these deterrents to
development of the banking sector and is taking steps to improve the court system. A Steering Committee
of appropriate high-level Government and industry representatives has been formed to oversee
implementation of an approved action plan.
g. Diagnostic reviews of public banks.
These have been performed. Diagnostic reviews were completed for the two Government-owned
commercial banks and the three Crovernment-owned specialized banks. Based upon these reviews,
Government decided upon the course of action for each. Action plans have been developed to implement
the decisions made. Progress against these plans, for the most part, has been slow.
h. Reduce risk exposure in the public sector banks and privatize one.
The Central Bank and the Government took decisive and concrete action to reduce the risk exposure of
public sector banks to public sector enterprises. The Government, in exchange for cash and/or Government
bonds, purchased all obligations of public sector enterprises to the Government-owned commercial banks.
Subsequently, the progress in risk exposure reduction in the public sector bank to be privatized has been
very good. The CAMEL-based risk profile of this bank is one of the more favorable within the system and
is indicative of efforts by the marnagement and financial advisors to place the bank in a satisfactory
condition. The actual offering of the bank has been delayed several times for several reasons, but is now
expected to take place during this calendar quarter.
The progress in restructuring the other public sector bank has been less favorable. Decisions and actions
have not taken place according to the restructuring plan. Onsite examination and offsite analysis show that
the bank continues to have a very high risk profile, is overstaffed, lacks proper management and risk
control systems, and in its present condition, is not a viable candidate for privatization.
One specialized bank (Industrial Bank) was designated for liquidation, which is in progress. Of the other
two, one (Housing Bank) has been scheduled to be restructured and privatized, while the other
(Agricultural Bank) would be restructured with the Government retaining ownership. Little has been done
in the case of the Housing Bank by the agency that is charged with the task. Progress in restructuring the
- 25 -



Agricultural Bank has been slow. One tender was approved to establish the terms of reference for the
restructuring. Then a second tender was made to solicit bids for the performance of the first phase of the
restructuring process.
i. Establishment of an Accounting Standards Board.
Although the decision to establish an Accounting Standards Board was made, no action has been taken to
bring this decision to fruition. Disagreements over its chairmanship have been a delaying factor.
j. Development of a legal-regulatory framework for financial leasing.
A draft law has been constructed and reviewed within the Central Bank. This was submitted to the World
Bank for review and comment. Subsequent revisions made by the World Bank are being discussed within
the Central Bank. Ideally, the CBY would like technical assistance by an Arabic-speaking legalist to
establish the proper framework for implementation. Yemen does not consider this item to be a priority for
financial sector development.
3. Evaluation of performnance of IDA and other partners, including effectiveness of relationships among the
borrowers, IDA, co-financiers, and other partners.
From the perspective of the Government of Yemen and particularly the Central Bank of Yemen, the
partnership worked very well. The World Bank officers and staff provided consultative advice and
direction throughout. All partners assisted in finding and contracting qualified specialized technical
assistance when and as needed. Relationships were cordial and professional. Communication among all
parties was quite good. Without such relationships, the project would not have progressed as smoothly and
effectively as it did.
4. Government's continued support of the project's objectives.
As mentioned previously, the expected benefits of the project have not yet been fully achieved. If they are
to be fully achieved, Government, the CBY and the Ministry of Finance in particular must continue the
implementation work that has been started in several areas:
a. further development of the legal and regulatory framework, such as revisions to the 1998 Banking law,
expansion of the circulars and decrees issued by CBY, issuance of a leasing law, and, most importantly,
continuing efforts to reform the commercial court system;
b. enforcement of the laws, circulars and decrees, particularly in the banking sector, to penalize and
remove self-serving ownership and boards of directors, to reduce the level of concentrations and to improve
overall portfolio quality, provisioning levels and capital adequacy.
c. ensuring adequate implementation of the Accounting Standards for Banks to produce more informative
and transparent financial data, and more reliable information for investors, depositors and for supervision;
d. ensuring support and participation in the Banker Training Institute to upgrade the technical quality of
banks' staff and management;
e. ensuring that the restructuring and privatization plans approved by the Government for the
Government-owned commercial and specialized banks are implemented properly.
f. attracting and retaining qualified staff within CBY and throughout Government by periodic review and
adjustment of salaries to make them comparable and competitive with the private sector, by raising
standards for hiring, by introduction of performnance-based pay systems, and by introducing formal training
and development programs.
The preceding actions are all at an interim phase of completion. Continued emphasis must be given to each
- 26 -



of these by the responsible Govermment bodies. The establishment of a capital market might broaden the
financial sector. That possibility is being studied and additional technical assistance being sought.
Similarly, development of a domestic interbank market is desirable. This could come about as portfolios
improve and expand after reforms that are now in-progress yield their benefits. The development of leasing
companies and other credit providers might be possible. It is not likely that activity in derivatives or other
less traditional financial instruments will be introduced in the near term.
5. Performance indicators to be used to track the effects of reforms.
The Central Bank has developed a supervisory monnitoring system that measures many areas of a banks
condition. The effects of reforms could be measured quarterly. Indicators used include:
a. For capital adequacy:
- the risk-weighted capital adequacy ratio
- the capital to deposits ratio
b. For asset quality:
- the classified assets to total capital ratio
- the classified assets to total assets ratio
- the classified assets growth rate
- classified asset composition percentages
- a comparison of bank-reported classified to examination classified
c. For provisioning:
- the required provisions to actual provisions ratio
- calculation of the amount of provisioning shortfall
The monitoring system includes review of reports that disclose large exposures/concentrations. These are
reviewed to determine compliance with legal lending limits. A similar report discloses insider and related
party exposures that also are reviewed for compliance with the Banking Law and CBY Circular.
Calculations are made to determine whether the excess portions are reducing in accordance with
supervisory agreements entered into between CBY and each offending bank.
Onsite examination procedures include tests for compliance with various sections of the Banking Law and
CBY circulars, as well as procedures to evaluate the overall quality of accounting, internal controls, MIS
and other risk management systems.
Offsite Supervision reviews the annual audited financial statements to determine compliance by the external
auditor with the Accounting Standards for Banks.
CBY periodically reviews progress against the elements in the plan for restructuring each of the specialized
banks and the Government-owned commercial banks.
- 27 -



- 28 -



