Report No. PID5208
Project Name                   Yemen-Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (@)
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           Financial Sector Development
Project ID                       YEPE43101
Borrower                         Republic of Yemen
Implementing Agencies            Central Bank of Yemen
P. 0. Box 59, Sana'a
Republic of Yemen
Mr. Abdullah Al-Olofi, Sub-Governor
Tel. No.967-1-274-327
Fax No.967-1-274-360
Ministry of Finance
Sana'a, Republic of Yemen
Tel. No. 967-1-263-370
Fax. No. 967-1-263-040
Environmental Category           "C"
Date PID Prepared                September 18, 1997
Initial PID                      May 20, 1997
Appraisal Date                   May 14, 1997
Projected Board Date             October 28, 1997
Country and Sector Background
1.      Following the unification of north and south Yemen in 1990,
the Republic of Yemen continued to face political uncertainty. This
culminated in a military conflict in 1994. Since the resolution of
the conflict, the Government has focused on improving the country's
economic performance and initiated several reform measures. The
initial phase of the reform program, which was supported by an
Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) in the amount of SDR 53.4 million,
has been successfully completed, and both tranches of the ERC have
been disbursed.
2.      The financial system in Yemen is rudimentary. It comprises
the Central Bank of Yemen (CBY) twelve commercial banks, three
specialized banks, money changers, insurance companies, and pension
funds. The two largest commercial banks are state-owned: the Yemen
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (YBRD), 51 percent owned by
the Government, and the National Bank of Yemen (NBY), 100 percent
owned by the Government. Each of these banks has more than 30
branches. The Government also fully owns the three specialized banks.
3.      The successful implementation of macroeconomic reforms during
the last two years has stabilized the economy and largely restored
business confidence. The measures implemented under the ERC have
liberalized the trade and investment regimes and initiated



privatization. Thus, a good basis for a higher level of investment
and growth has been laid down. There is also a good prospect for
increased expatriate remittances, the main source of foreign
savings in the short to medium term, as well as some improvement in
domestic savings. In order to realize this potential for mobilizing
financial resources for investment, and to facilitate further
economic adjustment and privatization, it is essential at this
stage to substantially upgrade the performance of the banking
sector. At present, the banks are financially weak and the
regulatory framework is inadequate in certain respects. The FSAC
proposes to support reforms to increase the financial soundness of
the banking system and to improve its institutional and regulatory
framework so that the system can effectively play its role in
mobilizing and allocating financial resources.
The Proposed Credit
4.      Objectives. The FSAC proposes to support reforms to
strengthen the currently fragile banking sector and improve the
sector's service efficiency. These reform measures are aimed at:
(a) improving the enabling legal and regulatory framework; (b)
increasing compliance with international standards of capital
adequacy and loan loss provisioning; (c) strengthening the
monitoring, supervision, and enforcement functions of the Central
Bank of Yemen (CBY); (d) improving the accounting and auditing
standards of banks; (e) improving the governance of banks and
accountability of their Boards of Directors; (f) introducing
measures to improve bank loan recovery; (g) undertaking diagnostic
reviews of public sector banks; (h) taking urgent steps to reduce
the risk exposure of two main public sector banks and privatizing
one of them; (i) establishing an Accounting Standards Board to
improve the timeliness and quality of the financial statements of
borrowers; and (j) creating the legal and regulatory framework for
developing financial leasing.
5.      Description. The proposed FSAC would be quick-disbursing and
would provide balance of payments and budgetary support. It would
be disbursed in two tranches linked to the implementation of reform
measures specified for each tranche. The proceeds of the Credit
would be used for financing the foreign exchange costs of general
imports, except for a small negative list of ineligible goods. The
proposed Credit of US$80 million equivalent will be made to the
Republic of Yemen through the Central Bank of Yemen (CBY) at the
current exchange rate. The Credit will be on IDA terms, with 40
years maturity and 10 years grace period. The closing date is
expected to be December 31, 1998.
6.      Implementation. The CBY will be the counterpart agency
responsible for the implementation and coordination of reform
actions. To carry out this task, the CBY will appoint a senior
officer (sub-Governor level), with one full-time staff member
dedicated to the FSAC activities, including coordination with other
staff and agencies, progress reporting to IDA, and maintaining
financial and other records relating to the project.
- 2 -



7.      Sustainability. First, the overall macroeconomic conditions,
the prerequisite for successful financial sector reforms, have to a
large extent been brought to the point where stability in the
economy has been restored. Second, the reforms supported by this
operation are aimed at basic improvements in the financial system,
specifically, increasing its soundness and improving the quality of
financial intermediation in Yemen. Third, the Government and the
banking community are fully committed to the reforms, and the
former has already implemented some of the actions. As such, the
program is meant to lay the basis for further financial sector
reforms that are likely to take place over several years,
including: deepening of the financial system, improving its
liquidity, and making it more competitive and efficient. These
further reforms are expected to be supported by future credits.
8.      Poverty Category. Not applicable.
9.      Environmental Aspects. This is a category "C" project. The
proposed operation has no direct and significant environmental impact.
10.     Program Objective Categories. The operation would contribute
to the following Bank Program Objective Categories: (i) financial
intermediation and capital markets development; (ii) financial
management; and (iii) privatization and private sector development.
11.     Participation. The authorities with the help of the World
Bank have developed the reform program in consultation with the
Bankers Association, Central Organization for Control and Auditing,
and other bodies representing private sector interests, as well as
with the management of a large number of commercial banks.
Contact Point:           Mr. Sarshar Khan, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 473-2610
Fax No.: (202) 477-0348
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending September 26, 1997.
- 3 -



