Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2997-YEM
Development Credit Agreement
(Financial Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 5, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2997-YEM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 5, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (the Borrower) and 
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated August 28, 1997 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the financial sector of the Borrower’s economy (hereinafter 
called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program 
during the execution thereof; and 
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, is modified to read:
"‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.";
(b)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(c)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the  deposit 
account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.";
(d)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Credit 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.”;
(e)
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(f)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and 
the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the program 
referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective 
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; and
(g)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“CBY” means the Central Bank of Yemen; 
(b)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(c)
“NBY” means the National Bank of Yemen; 
(d)
“Specialized Banks” means the Industrial Bank of Yemen, Cooperative and 
Agricultural Credit Bank, and Housing Bank;
(e)
“YBRD” means the Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development; and
(f)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
May 22, 1997 and June 4, 1997, between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifty eight million nine hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR58,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount 
Page  3
required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn 
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The 
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall 
thereupon be canceled.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association.  All withdrawals by the Borrower from the Credit Account shall be 
deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account.
(c)
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (d) and (e) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and deposited in the Deposit Account in support of the Program.
(d)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the 
Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association.  Amounts refunded 
to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation.
(e)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after the aggregate 
of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of SDR37,400,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an 
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement and based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Association: (i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of Program; and (ii) that the actions described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement have been taken and are satisfactory to the Association and the macro 
economic framework of the Borrower continues to be consistent with the objectives of 
the program, as reflected by indicators acceptable to the Borrower and the 
Association. If, after said exchange of views, the Association shall have given notice 
to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory or 
that the macro economic framework ceases to be consistent with the objectives of the 
Program, and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved 
progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association or the macro economic 
framework continues to be inconsistent with the objectives of the Program, then the 
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit or any part thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Page  4
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each March 15 and September 15 commencing March 15, 2008, and ending September 15, 
2037.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on September 15, 2017 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever:  (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semi-annual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
including any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:
Page  5
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, 
a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Governor of CBY is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Central Bank of Yemen
P. O. Box 59
Sana'a
Republic of Yemen
Fax:
274352
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Sana’a, Republic of Yemen, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  6
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By /s/ Ahmad A. Al-Samawi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Kemal Dervis 
Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112             -
Alcoholic beverages
121             -
Tobacco, unmanu-
factured, tobacco
refuse
122             -
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525             -
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious
stones, unworked
or worked
718          718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728.43          -
Tobacco processing
machinery
Page  7
897          897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including 
set gems)
971             -
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party and any other goods designated as environmentally 
hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the Association);
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
1.
CBY has: (i) strengthened prudential regulations for banks concerning loan 
classification, provisioning, and foreign exchange exposure, and (ii) issued 
regulations for banks concerning credit risk concentration and insider lending.
2.
CBY has entered into agreements with all private commercial banks on time-bound 
action plans for compliance with regulations concerning: (i) loan loss provisioning; 
(ii) an 8% capital ratio; and (iii) limits on lending to officers and employees and 
credit concentration.
3.
CBY has made satisfactory progress in implementing its development program for 
supervision of banks.
4.
CBY has: (i) completed an assessment of the accounting standards used by banks; 
and (ii) issued regulations adopting new bank accounting standards.
5.
The Borrower has established an Accounting Standards Board for setting and 
enforcing standards of accounting and auditing.
6.
(i) CBY has commenced on-site and off-site inspection of the Specialized Banks; 
and (ii) the Borrower has adopted a time-bound action plan for each of the Specialized 
Banks with a view to their institutional and financial restructuring, privatization, 
merger, or liquidation.
7.
The Borrower has offered for sale through a public announcement at least 51% of 
its shares in NBY.
8.
The Borrower has: (i) paid an amount satisfactory to the Association in 
Page  8
settlement of the non-performing public enterprise loans in NBY’s portfolio into an 
escrow account for NBY’s benefit, under arrangements whereby the proceeds so paid 
shall be made available to NBY upon NBY’s privatization, and (ii) assumed other public 
enterprise loans in NBY’s portfolio.
9.
The Borrower has adopted a time-bound action plan for YBRD with a view to its 
institutional and financial restructuring, privatization, merger, or liquidation.
10.
The Borrower has adopted an action plan for development of the legal framework 
for financial leasing.
