Page  1
Document of
 
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 
25241
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(
CPL-40460; SCL-4046A
)
ON 
A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF 
US$350 MILLION
TO 
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF
BRAZIL
FOR 
 A 
FEDERAL RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
05/16/2003
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their 
official duties.  Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
Page  2
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 
November 20, 2002
)
Currency Unit 
 =
Real (R$)
  
R$1.0
 =
US$  
0.28
US$ 
1.0
 =
R$ 3.50
FISCAL YEAR
January 1
     
December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANTAQ
Regulatory Agency for Water Transport
ANTF
National Association of Rail Carriers
ANTT
Regulatory Agency for Land Transport
BANESPA
Banco do Estado de São Paulo
BNDES
Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social
CBTU
Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos
(Brazilian Urban Train Company)
CEF
Caixa Econômica Federal 
CND
National Privatization Committee
COFER
Comissão Federal dos Transportes Ferroviários
(Federal Rail Transport Commission)
CONIT
National Council for Transport Integration
DNER
Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem
DNIT
Department of Transport Infrastructure
DTF
Departamento dos Transportes Ferroviários
(Rail Transport Department of the Ministry of Transport)
EMP
Environmental Management Component
ERP
Emergency Rehabilitation Program
FEPASA
Ferrovia Paulista S.A.
(São Paulo State Railways)
FGV
Fundação Getúlio Vargas
FNS
North-South Railway
FRS
Financial Restructuring and Settlement Component
GEIPOT
Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento dos Transportes
(National Transport Planning Agency)
NEMESIS
Núcleo de Estudos e Modelos Especiais Sistêmicos
ORC
Operations Restructuring and Concessioning Component
QAG
Quality Assurance Group
REFER
Railways Employee's Pension Fund
RFFSA
Federal Railways
RRC
Regulatory Reform Component
SAR
Staff Appraisal Report
SD
Settlement Division
SDE
Secretariat of Economic Rights
SRP
Staff Retrenchment Program
WBI 
World Bank Institute
Vice President: 
David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:
Vinod Thomas
Sector Manager/Director:
Danny Leipziger
 
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:
Aymeric-Albin Meyer
 
Page  3
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data
1
2. Principal Performance Ratings
1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
9
6. Sustainability
11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
11
8. Lessons Learned
12
9. Partner Comments
13
10. Additional Information
15
Annex 1.  Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
19
Annex 2.  Project Costs and Financing
20
Annex 3.  Economic Costs and Benefits
22
Annex 4.  Bank Inputs
23
Annex 5.  Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
25
Annex 6.  Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
26
Annex 7.  List of Supporting Documents
27
 
Page  4
Project ID:
 
P040028
 
Project Name:
 
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURG
Team Leader:
 
Aymeric-Albin Meyer
TL Unit:
 
LCSFT
ICR Type:
 
Core ICR
Report Date: 
May 16, 2003
1.  Project Data
Name:
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURG
L/C/TF Number:
CPL-40460; SCL-4046A
Country
/
Department
:
BRAZIL
Region:
Latin America and 
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector
:
Railways (99%); Central government administration (1%)
Theme:
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Social risk 
coping (P); Regulation and competition policy (S)
KEY DATES
Original
Revised/Actual
PCD:
07/15/1995
Effective:
10/31/1996
10/31/1996
Appraisal:
04/15/1996
MTR:
05/04/1998
05/04/1998
Approval:
06/20/1996
Closing:
12/31/2000
06/30/2002
Borrower/Implementing Agency
:
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL/RFFSA
Other Partners:
BNDES
STAFF
Current
At Appraisal
Vice President:
David de Ferranti
Shahid J. Burki
Country Manager
:
Vinod Thomas
Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:
Danny M. Leipziger
Asif Faiz
Team Leader at ICR:
Aymeric Meyer
Jacques L. Cellier
ICR Primary Author:
Jacques Cellier
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly 
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome:
S
Sustainability:
L
Institutional Development Impact:
H
Bank Performance:
S
Borrower Performance:
S
QAG (if available)
ICR
Quality at Entry:
S
Project at Risk at Any Time:
No
Page  5
3.  Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1
Original Objective:
Reduce the cost of freight transport in Brazil's main corridors by restructuring and privatizing the federal railways, 
including:  (a) improve performance by restructuring and concessioning RFFSA's operations to private operators, 
and by restructuring its finances to settle debts and labor liabilities;  (b) increase productivity through staff
 
retrenchment and emergency rehabilitation of critical assets in order to make the proposed concessions viable,
 
while minimizing the social cost of retrenchment; and  (c) enhance competition through regulatory reform, with a 
view to increase the railways' market share and reduce freight rates. 
3.2
Revised Objective:
T
he objective of the project was revised to also include the restructuring and privatization of the São Paulo State
 
Railways (FEPASA) which was incorporated into the Federal Railways (RFFSA) in 1998.
3.3
Original Components:
The project consisted of the following six components:
(a) Operations Restructuring and Concessioning Component (ORC) (1% of total project cost), including the
 
division of the railway into six regional operations, establishment of interchange traffic arrangements and trackage 
rights, preparation of bidding documents, negotiation of concession and lease contracts, transfer of rail assets to
 
concessionaires, closure of RFFSA's operational divisions, and the organization and strengthening of RFFSA's
 
technical supervision units;
(b) Staff Retrenchment Program (SRP)
 (56% of total project cost), including appropriate incentive schemes for
 
early retirement, voluntary separation, severance payment schemes for remaining redundant staff, retraining
 
programs and outplacement assistance, aiming to reduce RFFSA staff by about 18,000, in addition to 4,000 staff
 
that already retired, in order to increase staff productivity while minimizing the social costs of staff retrenchment;
(c) Emergency Rehabilitation Program (ERP)
 
(41% of total project cost), consisting of the emergency
 
rehabilitation, repairs and maintenance of locomotives, wagons and critical sections of track which are necessary to 
avoid further deterioration and traffic losses during the restructuring and concessioning process;
(d) Environmental Management Component (EMC) (less than 1% of total project cost), including environmental 
audits of railway facilities and strengthening of RFFSA's environmental management and safety unit;
(e) Regulatory Reform Component (RRC) (less than 1% of total project cost), including the development,
 
monitoring and evaluation of railway regulations, strengthening of the railway regulatory and supervisory agency
 
(Department of Railway Transport (DTF)  in the  Ministry of Transport (MT), and   establishment    of a  dispute  
settlement  commission (COFER); and 
(f) Financial Restructuring and Settlement Component (FRS) (1.5% of total project cost), including establishment 
of a Settlement Division (SD) within RFFSA and contracting of a Real Estate Manager (REM) to manage and sell 
non-rail assets in order to settle debts and labor liabilities.
3.4
Revised Components:
The scope of some components, essentially a), b), d) and f), were slightly revised as a result of the incorporation of 
São Paulo State Railways (FEPASA) into RFFSA in 1998.  The scope of component c) was substantially reduced 
because the concessioning process was accelerated and some planned rehabilitation and maintenance works were
 
actually assumed by the concessionaires, as it was actually foreseen at appraisal (para. 3.26 of the Staff Appraisal 
Report (SAR) Were also added: (i) two studies to component a) to assess the economic and financial feasibility of 
- 2 -
Page  6
the North - South Railway (FNS) under construction by the public company VALEC with a view to privatizing it; 
(ii) technical assistance to component e) for the Ministry of Transport and the Brazilian Enterprise for Transport 
Planning (GEIPOT) to prepare for a broad restructuring of the transport sector administration, including the
 
design of the proposed regulatory agency; and (iii) technical assistance into component f) to assist in the
 
liquidation of RFFSA. 
3.5
Quality at Entry:
The project's quality at entry is assessed as satisfactory (there was no QAG evaluation).  The project was very
 
innovative since it was the Bank's first investment operation to help finance severance payments for retrenched
 
employees, and to support the restructuring and privatization of a major railway system.  The processing of the
 
project contributed to the clarification of the Bank's policy on financing severance payments by the Operations
 
Policy Committee. In turn the preparation of the staff retrenchment component benefited from this interaction with 
Bank operations policy staff. The positive outcomes of the project, and its role in inspiring a number of Bank
 
operations in support of public employee reduction programs or railway privatization projects confirm the
 
soundness of its design.  But two project components could have benefited from a more in-depth preparation.  
First, the operations restructuring and concessioning component should have included a more comprehensive
 
restructuring of Brazil's entire railway system in order to redesign its regional structure, inherited from the past, in 
accordance with current demand for rail transport, and to facilitate long distance traffic while minimizing the need 
for interchange across concessions.  Unfortunately, such efficient restructuring was not possible at the time of
 
appraisal as FEPASA was then an element, together with the São Paulo State Bank (BANESPA), in the
 
negotiations for the settlement of the São Paulo state debt, and the Federal Government, facing the rapidly
 
deteriorating condition of the RFFSA system, its increasing operational deficits, and pressures from labor unions
 
and political lobbies, decided to privatize "quickly".  
Second, the regulatory reform component should have been mostly implemented prior to concessioning, so that
 
clear rules are established for efficient and equitable operation by the private sector, and a regulatory agency, with 
some degree of independence from the Government, is established to effectively implement such regulation and
 
supervise the concessions.  But the political pressures on Brazil's National Economic and Social Development
 
Bank (BNDES) to rapidly auction the concessions did not allow the establishment of an appropriate regulatory
 
framework. 
4.  Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1  
Outcome/achievement of objective:
The outcome of the project is satisfactory because:
The cost of freight transport in the RFFSA corridors has been reduced from an average USc2.9 per ton-km in 1996 
to an average USc2.0 per ton-km in 2000, which is exactly the agreed target for the original closing year. The
 
average transport cost in the RFFSA and FEPASA corridors was further reduced to USc1.6 per ton-km in 2001. 
But the devaluation of the real, which accelerated in 2001, had a substantial impact. In reals, the average cost of 
transport in these corridors was reduced from about Rc 3.0 per ton-km in 1996 to Rc2.6 per ton-km in 2001, in 
spite of a general inflation of 56% over the period. 
The output of the RFFSA railways increased by over 50% from 35 (in 1996) to 53.5 billion ton-km in 2002,
 
slightly above the 53 billion ton-km appraisal target for 2000 (source: DTF).  The target was reached with a
 
two-year delay because of the impact of the 1998 financial crisis on the economy, and petroleum traffic losses
 
resulting from the deregulation of transport of petroleum products and newly-built pipelines.  There has been
 
significant increases of market shares in other lines of businesses such as grains products and containers.  But the 
railways’ competitiveness, particularly in the long-distance freight market, is still affected by connectivity issues
 
(such as different track gauges and commuter train traffic in metropolitan regions), and inadequate incentives and 
regulation for joint traffic.
- 3 -
Page  7
The railways performance has substantially improved as a result of restructuring and privatization.  With the
 
exceptions of two small operations (Ferroviária Novoeste S/A - NOVOESTE and Companhia Ferroviária do
 
Nordeste - CFN), all the operators recover more than their operating expenses from revenues.  This is a substantial 
improvement over RFFSA's and FEPASA's annual operating deficits of over R$350 million prior to privatization 
(source: Federal Railways Restructuring and Privatization Project, Staff Appraisal Report).  Although they
 
remained below expectations due to lack of debt financing, the investments made by the private operators (about 
R$300 million p.a. over 1997-2001) were substantially above those made prior to privatization. RFFSA's debts
 
have been rescheduled or settled through revenues from the sale of the concessions and non-rail assets, and
 
progress has been made in settling the large number of outstanding labor liabilities and in liquidating RFFSA.
The railways' labor productivity increased from 1.1 (in 1996) to 4.9 million ton-km per employee in 2002, well
 
above the target of 2.3 million ton-km per employee for the RFFSA system. About 17,900 ex-employees have
 
received severance benefits financed under the project (the appraisal target was 18,000), and about 17,100 have
 
received similar benefits paid by the concessionaires (source: DTF). The latest surveys showed that, in 1999, about 
57% of the RFFSA ex-employees were working, 33% had retired, and 10% were unemployed, which is below
 
Brazil's real unemployment rate. 
The regulatory agency for land transport (ANTT) was established in 2001, following preparation studies financed 
under the project and significant delays in the congressional approval of the necessary legislation.  As a result,
 
important regulations including interchange or joint traffic, captive shipper rates, and line abandonment rules still 
need to be improved, and the capacity of ANTT to enforce regulations, supervise concession contracts and monitor 
industry performance still need to be strengthened.  Following the closure of this loan, support is being provided to 
ANTT for this purpose under Loan 4188-BR. Also, discussions are underway with the Government on a possible 
adjustment operation which would,
 
inter-alia,
 support regulatory and institutional reforms in the infrastructure
 
sectors, including railways.   
4.2  
Outputs by components:
1.  
Operations restructuring and concessioning (US$ 13.5 million of which US$1.6 million from the loan).  
The RFFSA system was restructured into six vertically-integrated regional operations through consolidation of
 
RFFSA's 12 existing Regional Superintendencies, and the separation of operational from non-operational assets. A 
tentative staffing plan was also prepared for each operation, in order to provide the basis for staff retrenchment
 
(component 2). Each regional operation was evaluated by BNDES, which is responsible for implementing the
 
federal government's privatization program under the supervision of the inter-ministerial National Privatization
 
Committee (CND).  
Following restructuring and staff retrenchment, each operation was subsequently auctioned for concessioning to
 
prequalified consortiums (each member being limited to 20% of the operator's stock) for 30 years, renewable for 
another 30 years.  To the concession contract with the federal government was associated a contract with RFFSA 
for the leasing of operational assets and the sale of material inventory. The bid price, above the minimum price
 
stipulated in the documents as evaluated by BNDES, was to be paid as a down payment (for 10-30%) and quarterly 
installments over the period of the concession. The restructuring and concessioning of the six RFFSA operations
 
were completed over 1996-97, very much in accordance with the agreed schedule. 
The 
Nordeste
 regional system, which was not attractive "as is" to private investors because of the poor state of its 
tracks, motive power and rolling stock, was subject to a specific feasibility study and to an emergency rehabilitation 
program (component 3) prior to concessioning in the second semester of 1997.   
- 4 -
Page  8
 The FEPASA system was incorporated into RFFSA in 1998, as part of a debt settlement agreement between the
 
federal and the Sao Paulo state governments, and, at the request of the former, included into the project. Following 
a similar preparation process, including BNDES' evaluations and some staff retrenchment, the 
Malha Paulista
 as a 
whole was auctioned as a seventh concession in November 1998. 
The seven concessions were sold for a total aggregated price of R$ 1,764 million, including R$ 383 million as
 
downpayments.  Two concessions were sold at the predetermined minimum price, three at premiums of 3 to 11%, 
and two at premiums above 37%.  Section 10  shows the main characteristics of the seven operations (Table 1) and 
the main results of the concessioning process (Table 2). 
Following the transfer of operations to the private operators, RFFSA's operations and operations support divisions 
were closed.  Small regional offices were kept and reorganized to supervise operational asset leases, sell
 
non-operational assets, settle judicial actions, and, by delegation from MT, to supervise the technical and
 
environmental aspects of the concession contracts, until such responsibilities were assumed by DTF from
 
1999-2001, and by ANTT from June 2001 onwards.
The project component supported the creation of the National Association of Rail Carriers (ANTF) and the
 
establishment of appropriate standards and processes for traffic interchange through technical assistance provided 
by the Association of American Railroads.  ANTF is already playing an important role in disseminating
 
appropriate norms and standards in the industry, and in promoting training activities and public-private
 
partnerships. 
Finally, a demand study and project finance services were financed under the loan to assess the feasibility of
 
concessioning the completion and the operation of the North - South Railway (FNS) which is being built by
 
VALEC, a public company within the jurisdiction of MT.
2.
Staff Retrenchment Program (US$ 442.8 million of which US$ 194.6 million from the loan)
The objectives of the Program were to reduce RFFSA staff by about 18,000 prior to concessioning (from about
 
38,000 at the end of 1995), to increase staff productivity through retraining and outplacement assistance, and to
 
minimize the social cost of adjustment through appropriate severance payments.  The program included incentive 
schemes for early retirement and for voluntary separation, involuntary separation grants in case lay-offs would be 
necessary, retraining programs, and outplacement services.   
Separation packages, including grants, retraining programs and outplacement assistance, were designed on the
 
basis of detailed assessments of RFFSA's staff profiles and analyses of the regional labor markets. Early retirement 
incentives consisted of payment of salary during six months following separation in order to account for the delays 
in initial pension payments from the social security, and payment of contributions to the railways employees'
 
pension fund (REFER) for up to five years. The voluntary separation incentive, available to employees with at least 
six years of service, consisted of a grant of four to twelve months of salary, depending on time in service, and
 
payment of contributions to REFER for one year. Involuntary separation grants were set at 80% of the voluntary
 
separation incentive. A broad set of retraining programs were made available to all.  Separation packages for
 
ex-FEPASA staff were substantially more generous as they were predetermined at one month per year of service by 
a contractual agreement between the company and the staff. 
A total of 17,879 employees received separation benefits partly financed under the loan; of those, 10,110 received 
early retirement incentives, 7,384 (including 1,576 ex-FEPASA employees) received voluntary separation
 
incentives, and 385 laid off employees received involuntary separation grants. Although not financed by the loan 
but from project counterpart funds, another 4,072 employees received early retirement benefits paid prior to project 
approval. Subsequently to concessionning, about 17,100 employees laid off by concessionaires within one year of
 
concession contract effectiveness received the same separation grants paid from concessionaires' own resources, in 
accordance with the clauses of the contracts. 
- 5 -
Page  9
A total of 1,953 ex-employees participated into one or more retraining programs, at a total cost of US$1.8 million.   
Retraining programs were contracted by RFFSA to the system of official training institutes (21 programs to
 
SENAI, 12 to SENAC and 19 to SEBRAE), because they are the only institutions capable of delivering a broad
 
range of tailored technical, administrative, commercial and small business management programs country-wide. In 
order to achieve the labor productivity improvement objective, the program included an incentive for retraining (in 
the form of a one-month salary deduction from the separation grant for those not adhering).  As a result, about
 
6,300 adhered to the retraining program. But because of substantial delays in contracting and initiating some of the 
training courses, about two-thirds of the applicants, most of whom had already found a new job, decided to cancel.
A total of 1,061 ex-employees adhered to the outplacement assistance program offered by RFFSA, which consisted 
in support for resume and interview preparation, and information on job opportunities.  But as a result of delays in 
offering such assistance, which is not readily available in Brazil for technical and administrative staff, only 172
 
ex-employees actually participated in one of the 36 seminars organized country-wide.
In order to evaluate the results of the staff retrenchment program, RFFSA maintained a database of its
 
ex-employees and contracted the Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro and Instituto Datafolha de Pesquisas to
 
carry out three successive surveys of the employment and income situation of its ex-employees. The first survey, 
initiated in January 1998, included over 5,300 ex-employees in over 600 municipalities, and over 4,100 interviews 
were successfully completed. Follow up surveys were carried out in September 1998 and March 1999 on samples of 
675 ex-employees.  
In summary, the survey showed that 67% found a new job within four months of separation from RFFSA.  In
 
March 1999, 57% of the ex-employees were working, 33% had retired, and 10% were unemployed (down from
 
12% in the first survey).  The large majority (76%) had changed activity, and were working in commerce and
 
services, mostly independently (58%) or as business owners (7%).  Others either were public employees (3.5%),
 
had a regular work contract (24%) or were employed without a contract (9%).  Regarding incomes, 56% said they 
were earning less than at RFFSA, and 29% said they were earning more.
3.
Emergency Rehabilitation (US$ 145.4 million of which US$ 48.2 million from the loan)
The component, as originally designed, included the emergency repairs and maintenance of locomotives, wagons, 
tracks and other facilities necessary to allow for continued and safe operations during the restructuring and
 
concessioning process, taking into account possible delays in such process. But the appraisal report also flagged
 
that some of these investments might not be needed or left to concessionaires in case of delays in implementing the 
component and/or a possible acceleration of the concessioning process (para. 3.26).  This is actually what
 
happened with the first five concessions, which were auctioned without major rehabilitation works, but with only
 
some repairs and maintenance of track and locomotives funded from RFFSA's own revenues, and the replacement 
of 2,200 wagon wheels financed under the loan in the Southern system. 
It is only in the
 
Nordeste 
system that a significant emergency rehabilitation component was carried out since it
 
proved to be necessary to turn that concession attractive to private investors. A total of 1,863 km of tracks (44% of 
the network) were repaired, 64 locomotives were rehabilitated, almost 3,400 wagon wheels were replaced, and
 
telecommunications and signaling system were rehabilitated on trunk lines, at a  total cost of US$61.2 million
 
equivalent, of which US$47.1 million from the loan.  
4.
Environmental Management (US$ 578,000 of which US$ 539,000 from the loan)
Environmental surveys and audits were carried out at 52 railway facilities, including 21 fueling stations, 22  
workshops and 9 sleeper treatment plants, which were identified as the highest environmental risks.  Work plans 
were developed on the basis of the results of the surveys to retrofit installations and/or perform clean up operations 
where necessary.  The necessary actions were then discussed case by case between RFFSA and the concessionaires, 
with a view to reach agreement on their implementation by the concessionaires. Only three clean up operations
 
were carried out by RFFSA under the project, respectively at the sleeper-treatment plant of Rocha Leão - Fazenda 
União at the fueling station of Iguaçu yard, and at 25 substations of the 
malha Paulista
.
- 6 -
Page  10
RFFSA's environmental management and safety unit was strengthened to supervise these surveys and clean up
 
operations and to discuss actions needed with the concessionaires.  In particular, two professional staff of the unit 
participated in an eight-month environmental management program at a local university.
5.
Regulatory Reform (US$ 1.85 million of which US$ 1.81 million from the loan)
The regulatory reform component included technical assistance to RFFSA and to MT, and training of staff, to help 
develop and establish an appropriate regulatory framework for rail transport. 
A first package of technical assistance helped RFFSA and MT develop regulations for interchange and joint traffic, 
captive shipper rates, abandonment of branch lines, reversible assets and accounting, as well as the procedures and 
information needed for supervising the concessions, and for improving the effectiveness of the Rail Transport
 
(dispute settlement) Commission (COFER).  Procedures and information systems were established at MT/DTF and 
at RFFSA to supervise the concession and lease contracts. But few of the specific regulations developed at that time 
were actually implemented.  
Since some captive shippers submitted formal complaints to the Ministry of Justice for abusive rates charged by
 
one operator, the Bank agreed to provide technical assistance under this component to the Secretariat of Economic 
Rights (SDE) of that Ministry, through RFFSA, to help reviewing such complaints. These reviews contributed to
 
the preparation of a decision by the anti-trust agency (CADE)  requiring 
Companhia Vale do Rio Doce 
(CVRD), 
which was privatized in 1997, to establish separate accounts for the two railways it owns and operates. 
A second package of technical assistance helped prepare for a restructuring of the sector administration, aiming in 
particular to set up an independent regulatory agency which would consolidate the regulatory, supervision and
 
dispute settlement functions of MT/DTF, RFFSA and COFER.  The scope of work, initially focussed on the railway 
subsector, was subsequently expanded to the entire transport sector. Its coordination and supervision was then
 
transferred from RFFSA to GEIPOT, under a cooperation agreement.  The resulting restructuring plan served as a 
basis for the drafting of a law for a broad restructuring of the federal transport administration, including the
 
creation of an independent transport regulation agency and a department of transport infrastructure, and the
 
extinction of the national highway department (DNER) and other sector companies.
The transport sector restructuring law was finally approved by the congress in June 2001, creating two regulatory
 
agencies, one for land transport (ANTT) and another for water transport (ANTAQ), the department of transport 
infrastructure (DNIT) and the National Council for Transport Integration (CONIT), reorganizing the Ministry of
 
Transport, and establishing guidelines and timetables for the extinction of DNER, RFFSA, CBTU, GEIPOT, and 
VALEC.  The new institutions were established in February 2002.  They are now benefiting from Bank assistance 
under the Federal Highway Rehabilitation and Decentralization Project (Loan 4188-BR). DNER and GEIPOT are 
being extinct, and RFFSA is being liquidated.  Little progress has been made with CBTU and VALEC.      
An MBA course on infrastructure privatization, concession regulation and competition was offered by Fundação
 
Getúlio Vargas (FGV) to about 40 professional staff of RFFSA who were expected to transfer to the regulatory
 
agency.  This course was then repeated for staff from GEIPOT and the Ministry of Transport, but this second
 
course was not financed under this project but under the Bank-cofinanced Federal Highway Rehabilitation and
 
Decentralization Project (Loan No. 4188-BR).  Also under this project, a total of about 30 staff from RFFSA,
 
GEIPOT, the Ministries of Transport, Planning and Finance participated into various WBI courses on privatization 
and regulation of transport services and infrastructure project finance.  This training component represented an
 
important first step in developing a corps of transport regulation professionals.     
6.
Financial Restructuring and Settlement (US$ 14.9 million of which US$ 10.8 million from the loan)
 Following the concessioning process, RFFSA was reorganized to undertake the sale of its non-rail assets and to
 
effectively manage and settle its debts and labor liabilities.  A specific division was established for this purpose, 
and RFFSA's 13 regional offices were reorganized and equipped with microcomputers (financed through the loan) 
- 7 -
Page  11
to carry out these new functions.  An international consulting firm was hired under the project to assist in this
 
reorganization, and to develop and deliver the necessary training programs for RFFSA's settlement staff, including 
real estate valuation, labor dispute settlement, environmental assessments, and the like.
Through an international real estate management firm contracted under the project, RFFSA completed an
 
inventory of its large stock of about 20,000 real estate assets and their valuation, and established an information 
system for their management and preparation for sale.  With assistance from Caixa Econômica Federal (CEF),
 
which was hired to give a second opinion on valuations, RFFSA managed to sell a total of about 5,600 pieces of
 
real estate for a total value of about R$253 million during project implementation. RFFSA also sold stocks of
 
materials for a total of about R$40 million. The total revenues from these sales (R$293 million) was significantly
 
less than the (US$1.0 billion) appraisal target, which proved too optimistic in view of the deteriorating conditions 
of the real estate market at the time, and of the devaluation of the currency.
With assistance from an information systems firm and the purchase of computer equipment and software financed 
through the loan, RFFSA established a management system (SISJUR) for its huge number of about 35,000
 
outstanding judicial processes, and trained its relevant staff in operating and using the system.  With the much 
improved information available, RFFSA undertook to negotiate the smaller labor-related actions and managed to
 
settle a total of about 4,100 actions in the course of 2001.
RFFSA's debt with INSS was rescheduled in December 1996 (Law No. 9364 dated December 12, 1996), as agreed 
during loan negotiations in order to enable RFFSA to start selling non-rail assets. This debt rescheduling as well as 
payment of some other debts, including to the Federation and REFER, were made possible through the transfer of 
some receivables from concession leases to the Federation.  RFFSA's total outstanding debt is now estimated at
 
about R$ 7.0 billion (about US$ 2.0 billion equivalent), as compared to about US$ 3.7 billion equivalent at
 
appraisal. The reduction of debt in dollar terms (about US$ 1.4 billion equivalent) is well above the negotiated
 
target of US$ 700 million, but this is mainly due to the devaluation of the real.  The debt actually increased in 
nominal terms, in spite of the above-mentioned payments made, as a result of the more reliable assessment of labor 
liabilities than at the time of appraisal.   
4.3  
Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
An ex-post economic evaluation of the project was carried out, following the methodology used at appraisal
 
(Annex 10, section D of the SAR).  The benefits derived from the project are: (i) the reductions of rail transport 
costs resulting from the improved productivity of the privately-operated railroads; and (ii) the transport cost
 
savings for the additional traffic that the railroads captured from trucking. The ex-post evaluation included the
 
seven RFFSA and ex-FEPASA operations (the ex-ante evaluation only included the six RFFSA operations). The
 
retained "without project" scenario was based on the continuation of the stagnation (including traffic and
 
productivity) which characterized the public railways prior to privatization.   
With the project, the railways' total traffic actually increased from 40 billion ton-km in 1996 to 60.5 billion ton-km 
in 2002, an average increase of over 7% p.a.. It was assumed that traffic would increase at an average 5% p.a. from 
2003-2006 and 3% p.a. thereafter.  The railways' average long run marginal costs decreased from R$ 40 to R$ 36 
per thousand ton-km between 1996 and 2001, which corresponds to a reduction of 42% in real terms (see Newton 
de Castro, "Preços, Custos e Subsídios no Transporte de Carga", Texto para Discussão, NEMESIS - Núcleo de
 
Estudos e Modelos Espaciais Sistêmicos, 2002). It was assumed conservatively that the railways' costs will remain 
constant in real terms.  The long run marginal cost of trucking remained at approximately R$ 60 per thousand
 
ton-km, and was also assumed to remain constant in the future.  On this basis, the net present value of the project's 
net economic benefits was estimated at about R$ 4.1 billion for a 12% discount rate.  The economic internal rate of 
return of the project was estimated at 64%, which is very consistent with the appraisal estimate of 68% (Annex 3, 
Table).
An ex-post economic evaluation of RFFSA's staff retrenchment program, which accounted for about 50% of total 
project costs, was also carried out following the same methodology used at appraisal (Annex 10, section B of SAR). 
- 8 -
Page  12
The actual retrenchment costs, including severance pay and retraining costs, were considered the program's
 
economic costs; the economic benefits (the marginal productivity value of laid-off employees, assuming this value 
would remain close to zero if redundant employees would remain in RFFSA) were estimated as the actual incomes 
of the laid-off employees, based on the results of RFFSA's ex-employee surveys. The ex-FEPASA employees were 
not included in the evaluation since no survey of their job and income situation was carried out. 
The retrenchment costs for RFFSA's 16,303 redundant staff amounted to about US$ 309 million equivalent. The
 
surveys showed that 67% of laid-off employees had a new job (about 10% were unemployed and the others had
 
retired), and that on average their salaries were 74.3% of their former RFFSA salaries.  As a result, the net present 
value of the staff retrenchment program at a 12% discount rate was estimated at about US$ 410 million equivalent, 
and its internal rate of return at a high 54%. Assuming salaries would actually be 10% lower than the results of the 
surveys, the internal rate of return would still be 46%, which is in line with the appraisal estimate of 40%. 
4.4  
Financial rate of return:
Project expenditures (about R$ 680 million) were already more than fully recovered from the concession
 
downpayments (almost R$ 500 million) and the quarterly concession and lease payments in the initial two years
 
(over R$ 220 million in 1997-98).  Annual revenues from concession and lease payments exceed R$ 263 million.  
In addition to project costs and revenues from concession and lease payments, the ex-post financial analysis of the 
project takes into account RFFSA's staff and operating costs related to the restructuring, privatization and
 
liquidation process, which is now expected to be fully completed at the end of 2004.  On this basis, the financial 
rate of return of the project is estimated at 69% (Section 10, Table 3).   
In addition to the revenues from the concessions and leases, the project resulted into the elimination of the large
 
operational deficits of the public railroads, RFFSA and FEPASA, which were totaling an average of about R$ 350 
million in the years prior to concessionning, and were not considered in the ex-post financial analysis (source:
 
Federal Railways Restructuring and Privatization Project, Staff Appraisal Report).  
4.5  
Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact is rated high. By effectively restructuring and privatizing the
 
operation of Brazil's public railroads, the project contributed to the effective withdrawal of the government from 
the operation of railway services, which is more efficiently done by the private sector, and to the establishment of a 
sound basis for an adequate regulatory framework, including a regulatory agency with some degree of
 
independence from the government.   The reform resulted into more efficient use of public resources, through the 
elimination of the large public subsidies to the former public railroads; and into the much higher productivity of
 
the large numbers of redundant public railway employees that found a more productive new job in the private
 
sector. 
The project also had a substantial impact on the development of the entire restructuring of the transport sector
 
administration.  The scope of the study which was initially contracted for designing a regulatory agency for rail
 
transport was later expanded to the entire transport sector administration.  This study served as a reference for the 
debate, including in the congress, on the proposed restructuring, for the establishment of the transport regulatory
 
agencies (ANTT and ANTAQ) and the department of transport infrastructure (DNIT), and for the extinction of
 
DNER, RFFSA and GEIPOT.  
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1
Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The international financial crisis of 1998 adversely affected both the implementation and the outcome of the
 
project.  In response to the crisis, the government had to drastically cut back public expenditures from 1999
 
onwards.  As a result, the full completion of several components of the project, including staff retrenchment, took a 
longer time than planned; and the settlement of RFFSA's labor liabilities was slower than anticipated, which led to 
- 9 -
Page  13
the extended liquidation period.  The economic contraction which followed the financial crisis had an impact on 
the demand for transport, which contributed to several concessionaires not reaching the agreed traffic targets.
The subsequent devaluation of the real affected the finances of some of the concessionaires, who had financed
 
investments and some concession downpayments through foreign borrowings.  But more importantly, the increased 
foreign exchange risks, coupled with the lack of long term finance in the domestic market, had an adverse impact 
on concessionaires' investments, which have remained below expectations. 
The deterioration of the real estate market countrywide also affected the capacity of RFFSA to sell its
 
non-operational assets, and was an important factor for not achieving the agreed targets in this area.  
5.2
Factors generally subject to government control:
The large delays in the effective implementation of the reform of railway regulation (reform which had been agreed 
during loan negotiations), affected the outcome of the project.  Because of lack of appropriate regulation of captive 
shipper rates and the ineffectiveness of the dispute settlement commission (COFER), some captive shippers have
 
had to file complaints with the anti-trust system, and in spite of the technical assistance provided under the project 
for analyzing the cases, the resolution of these disputes have taken a long time.  Similarly, the unclear regulation of 
interchange and joint traffic has continued to affect the competitiveness of the railroads on long distances, and the 
concessionaires' market shares and finances.
The delays in establishing the regulatory agency, due in  part to the Government who has taken a long time for 
preparing and presenting a proposal to the Congress, and in part to the extended debate in the Congress, has also 
affected the outcome of the project.  If the regulatory agency had been established upfront, before or at the time of 
the privatizations, the above-mentioned and other regulatory issues would have been resolved more quickly, which 
would have contributed to improved operating performance and, by reducing the regulatory risk, to increased
 
private investment in the sector.  
The RFFSA liquidation process has been taking a longer time than anticipated since the Government has not been 
allocating a sufficient priority nor the necessary resources to settle RFFSA's liabilities.  As a result, creditors have 
obtained judicial orders to secure RFFSA's revenues from the leases into escrow accounts pending the resolution of 
the disputes.  
5.3
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
RFFSA management team's experience and commitment to project objectives, as well as the dedication of BNDES 
privatization team,  were major factors of the project's successful implementation and outcome.   But the lack of
 
experience and effectiveness in selling real estate and in managing and settling large numbers of judicial actions
 
were also important factors of the slow progress made in these areas, in spite of the assistance provided for these 
purposes under the project.      
5.4
Costs and financing:
Project costs were maintained within appraisal estimates, and substantial savings were made by cutting
 
investments which proved unnecessary.  Insufficient government counterpart funding in the later years, after the
 
implementation of the main project components was substantially completed, was a major factor of the delays in 
fully completing the project.
- 10 -
Page  14
6.  Sustainability
6.1
Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project's outcome is rated likely because of the following:
The large majority of the railroads' clients are satisfied with the services provided by the private operators. 
l
Most consider that private operation resulted in significant improvements in the quality of services over 
the former public operation, and in some reduction of transport rates.
The federal transport administration has now been reorganized in line with the new public-private sector 
l
structure.  In particular, the regulatory agency for land transport (ANTT) is now well established, and
 
RFFSA's liquidation is well underway. And the new government confirmed its intention to further
 
strengthen these new institutional and regulatory frameworks.
The risks of reduced competition through mergers and acquisitions in the railroads and iron ore sectors
 
l
can be managed and adequately prevented or mitigated by coordinated actions between ANTT and the
 
anti-trust system, consisting of the Ministry of Justice Secretaries for Economic Monitoring (SEAE) and 
for Economic Rights (SDE), as well as of the national anti-trust agency (CADE). And except for the iron 
ore market, the trucking industry will continue to effectively compete for market share. 
The risks related to the private operators' financial viability in the long term, which will depend on
 
l
improving their competitiveness and market shares in the long-distance segments of the transport market 
and require investments to improve the connectivity of the networks which are beyond their financial
 
capacity, could be addressed through innovative forms of public-private partnerships.  
6.2
Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Several important actions are still needed to bring the privatized railroads to more efficient, regular operations.  In 
particular, ANTT should:
Clarify key regulations, particularly for captive user rates, inter-railroad access and joint traffic, reversible 
l
assets and line abandonment.
Review inter-railroad operations agreements and ownership issues, and consider appropriate restructuring 
l
of concession networks and changes in ownership structures during the forthcoming five-year scheduled 
renegotiation of contracts.
Develop appropriate regulatory instruments, clarify and enforce regulatory information requirements and 
l
establish effective supervision and performance monitoring capabilities through appropriate training of its 
staff.
The Ministry of Transport should:
Establish a capacity for policy formulation and planning, including a project finance group or network
 
l
with expertise in developing and structuring effective public-private partnerships for transport
 
infrastructure projects or programs, with particular emphasis on resolving inter-railroad and inter-modal 
connectivity issues to allow efficient multimodal transport and logistics services. 
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1
Lending:
The performance of the Bank in guiding the preparation and in appraising the project was satisfactory.  Interviews 
conducted with RFFSA management and BNDES privatization staff indicated that the Bank's contributions to
 
project preparation have been valuable.  The close cooperation between operations staff and central operations
 
policy staff was an important factor of the effective processing by the Bank of this first investment operation which 
helped finance severance payments. The successful outcome of the project is a confirmation of its quality at entry.
- 11 -
Page  15
7.2
Supervision:
The performance of the Bank in supervising the implementation of the project was also satisfactory.  The decisions 
needed to respond to external factors were taken rapidly. For example: (i) the ex-FEPASA system was included
 
into the project when it was incorporated into RFFSA following the agreement between the Federal Government 
and the Sao Paulo State Government and the rescheduling of the state debt; (ii) the emergency rehabilitation
 
programs originally planned on the southern and southeastern systems as a safeguard against possible delays in the 
privatization process and the related loan amounts were cancelled when they proved to be unnecessary; and (iii) 
cost-sharing was increased to facilitate the completion of the project when the Government had to drastically cut 
back public expenditures following the 1998 financial crisis.  
7.3
Overall Bank performance:
The overall performance of the Bank is therefore rated satisfactory.  The performance of the Bank team was
 
recognized with the President's Award for Excellence for the railway concessioning group.
Borrower
7.4
Preparation:
Borrower performance on project preparation is rated satisfactory.  RFFSA management team and BNDES
 
privatization team were fully committed to the objectives of the project.  They worked together very efficiently in 
developing a restructuring and privatization process which was both politically feasible and socially responsible.  
However, the Ministry of Transport was somewhat less efficient in developing and approving the necessary
 
regulatory reform which was advocated by the Bank.
7.5
Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory overall. The Government provided the necessary
 
support to the implementing agency, including counterpart funds, until the restructuring and privatization process 
was completed, despite fiscal limitations at the federal level.  The RFFSA liquidation and liability settlement
 
processes, however, were given less priority after the operations were successfully privatized.
7.6
Implementing Agency:
 RFFSA performance is rated highly satisfactory.  The commitment of RFFSA's management team throughout
 
project implementation was a key factor of the project's successful outcome.  The competence and dedication of
 
RFFSA's project management team was another major factor of its successful implementation.  The determination 
of BNDES privatization team was essential to the success of the privatization process.
7.7
Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is therefore rated satisfactory.  The performance of the RFFSA-BNDES 
team was also  recognized with the President's Award for Excellence. 
8. 
Lessons Learned
The main lesson learned is that addressing the redundancy issue upfront, and at least initiating a well-designed
 
staff retrenchment program with adequate social safeguards negotiated with the labor unions prior to initiating the 
privatization of a public enterprise can be an effective instrument to minimize the impacts of restructuring on
 
employees' lives, and to reduce the opposition to such project.   The process of the privatization of Brazil's railways 
could very well have derailed, and many employees could have been brought into poverty without the attention
 
given to the issue by RFFSA management. 
- 12 -
Page  16
Another important lesson for the Bank is that lending in support of a well-designed staff retrenchment program, 
including equitable severance payments and retraining and outplacement support, can substantially increase the
 
credibility of such program and greatly improve the feasibility of the entire privatization project.  This was the first 
Bank investment project which directly helped finance severance payments, and the risks identified at the time of 
project processing, including the possible negative impacts on the Bank's image as a development institution, did 
not actually materialize.
The need for an established regulatory framework prior to initiating a privatization program is another clear lesson 
from this project.  Also, in this case, a broader (geographical) restructuring of the public railways would have been 
needed to allow for more efficient private operations.  The Government's decision to proceed with privatization
 
anyway, since these two issues could not be resolved rapidly, had mixed results.  The privatization process was
 
completed, but the geographical restructuring of the concessions in the Southeast region is being proved
 
increasingly necessary to simplify the operating agreements which the operators have had to enter into among
 
themselves and to enable meaningful supervision of the concession contracts.  It can also be argued that the
 
regulatory agency could have been established faster if it had been a condition of proceeding with privatization,
 
and that privatization could still have been done even if it had to be delayed by one or more years. 
Finally, it is becoming increasingly clear that concessioning railway operations cannot resolve all the problems of 
the sector, and that government interventions may still be justified.  One key area to ensure the competitiveness of 
the railways in the long distance market is the upgrading of the major rail corridors to allow for competitive
 
operating speeds, and the improvement of their connectivity, particularly in the metropolitan region of Sao Paulo.  
These improvements are essential to reduce logistics costs and to improve the Brazil's competitiveness in export
 
markets and particularly the competitiveness of the less developed regions of the interior.   The investments
 
required, however, are well beyond the financial capacity of the concessionaires, and the externalities involved,
 
including the socio-economic and environmental costs of trucking in congested urban areas, could very well justify 
the participation of the Government in such investment programs through well-defined public-private partnership 
agreements with concessionaires and investors.  
9. 
Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Borrower's comments translation (original in Portuguese in project file)
In making the overall evaluation of the project, which achieved its main objectives, the following comments are
 
relevant:
the highly qualified World Bank team working closely together with RFFSA and BNDES teams allowed 
l
the effective integration of the efforts needed from all parts to privatize the railroad, which, by
 
Government decision, followed an accelerated process;
as a result of this accelerated process and limited time for in-depth studies, the selected privatization
 
l
model followed the geographical structure of the old RFFSA networks.  These networks had resulted from 
political considerations and, in some aspects, are now conflicting with actual market needs. This is
 
particularly true for the São Paulo network, which was aggregated later, and which should have been
 
contemplated in the formulation of the networks. This is now being confirmed by the negotiations between 
FCA 
(
Centro-Leste
 network), ALL 
(
Sul
 network) and FERROBAN (
Paulista
 network) for redistributing 
the operational corridors of the latter operator, also involving NOVOESTE 
(
Oeste
 network) and
 
FERRONORTE;
another aspect to be emphasized is the low traffic density networks, such as the Novoeste and mainly the 
l
CFN 
(
Nordeste
 network), which have serious economic difficulties. The privatization model for such
 
networks could have had different characteristics, perhaps in the form of Government-subsidised
 
concessions justified by the still fragile transport market;
- 13 -
Page  17
it is also important to note that network operations were privatized at a time when a regulatory and
 
l
oversight structure had not yet been established. An aggravating factor was that the lease and concession 
contracts were not clear in certain aspects.  This led to problems in the execution of these contracts as well 
as in the actual powers of the Regulatory Agency for Land Transport - ANTT, which was created well
 
after the concessions were in effect;
it is pointed out that the staff adjustment program supported by the World Bank, which included packages  
l
for early retirements, voluntary resignations, financial incentive for dismissed staff, training and
 
outplacement services, helped minimize the social problems caused by the reduction of RFFSA staff,
 
aiming at a higher productivity of the staff and its adjustment to the needs of the private operators that 
would succeed RFFSA;
the partnership with the World Bank helped to structure the ANTT, through the studies carried out under 
l
the loan, which were the basis for the preparation of 
draft law
 submitted to the Congress and approved in 
2001, creating the Regulatory Agencies for the transport sector, the Department of Transport
 
Infrastructure - DNIT and CONIT;
finally, the success of the project can be credited to the adequate preparation of its scope, to the
 
l
modifications which later proved necessary, and to the dedication and integration of the World Bank and  
RFFSA teams, which managed to carry out the work satisfactorily.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
- 14 -
Page  18
10. 
Additional Information
Table 1. Economic Characteristics of the Concessions
Network/Malha
Oeste
Centro-
Leste
Sudeste
Tereza 
Cristina
Sul
Nordeste
Paulista
States Served (*)
MS, SP
SE, BA, MG, 
GO, ES,RJ, 
DF
RJ, SP, 
MG
SC
PR, SC, RS
MA, PI, CE, 
RN, PB, PE, 
AL
SP, MG
Track Length (kms)
1,621 
7,080 
1,674 
164 
6,586 
4,534 
4,236 
Track Gauge (m)
      1
1
1.6
1
1
1
1.6 & 1
Locomotives
88
397
406
10
395
112
408
W
agons
   2,777
9,233
11,406
563
10,626
1,919
11,855
Output TKU bn
In 1995
1.6
6.26 
20 
0.10 
7.5
0.7
6 
Year 6
4
13
30
0.12
14.9
2
8.3
Invest. US$ Mn
Years 1-6
89.0
327.4
227.0
9.4
276.0
18.4
304.8
Years 7-30
270.0
982.4
1,408.0
19.3
1,083.0
49.2
588.2
Op. Rev.US$ Mn
In 1995
37
175
321 
8 
187 
26 
187
Year 1
45.0
195.0
384.0
5.5
202.0
41.3
132.4
Year 6
86.0
350.0
490.0
9.7
327.0
70.3
243.1
Employees
2,423
10,982
9,397
343
9,604
3,707
13,432
(Transferred)
(1,800)
(7,900)
(6,600)
(250)
(6,900)
(1,600)
(6,380)
Main cargoes
Petroleum
Soybeans
Steel
Minerals
Petroleum
Cement
Steel
Soybeans
Grains
Iron ore
Cement
Steel
Limestone
Coal and 
by-products
Soybeans
Petro.
Rice
Alcohol
Iron ore
Petroleum
Oil
Cement
Petroleum
Oil
Minerals
Grains
Pellets
Main customers
Petrobas
Petroleo Ipir.
Shell
Cia Cimento
Port Itau
Nestle
Cival Al.
COSIPA
Petrobras
Petroleo Ipir.
Shell
Cimento Caue
Copebras
Usiminas
Nitrofertil
MBR
CSN
COSIPA
Ferteco
CBA
Cimento 
Tupi
Fosfertil
ELETROSUL
Petrobas
Petroleo Ipir.
Shell
ESSO
Votorantim
Incobrasa
Petrobras
Petroleo Ipir.
Shell
ESSO
Adubos Trevo,
Gerdau,
Milho Brasil
CBA
COSIPA
Shell
Holdercim
Cargill
Glencore
Main ports served
-
Vitória
Salvador
Santos, 
Guaiba, RJ
-
Paranagua
-
Santos
Notes
: (*) Abbreviations: RS=Rio Grande do Sul, SP=São Paulo, SE=Sergipe, BA=Bahía, MG=Minas Gerais, GO=Goiás, 
ES=Espiritu Santo, RJ=Rio de Janeiro, DF=Distrito Federal, SC=Santa Catarina, MA=Maranhão, PI=Piaui, CE=Ceará, RN=Rio 
Grande do Norte, PB=Pariba, PE=Pernambuco, AL=Alagoas, MS= Mato Grosso do Sul.  Figures for track and rolling stock and 
employees correspond to 1998 actual values. Figures for output, planned investment, operating revenues and employees correspond 
to 1995 (before the concessioning) and to the estimates for the concessioning years. 
Source:
 RFFSA (1998) and Gómez-Ibáñez (1998)
- 15 -
Page  19
Table 2. Main Results from the Concessioning Process
Concession
Oeste
Centro- 
Leste
Sudeste
Tereza 
Cristina
Sul
Nordeste
Paulista
Auction date
05/03/96
14/06/96
20/09/96
22/11/96
13/12/96
18/07/97
10/11/98
Transfer date
01/07/96
01/09/96
01/12/96
01/02/97
01/03/97
01/01/98
01/01/99
# Bidders
n.a.
2
3
1
4
4
2
Private operator
Ferr. 
Novoeste
(FNV)
Ferr.Centro 
Atlântica
(FCA)
MRS 
Logística
(MRS)
Ferr. Tereza 
Cristina
(FTC)
Ferrovia Sul 
Atlântico
(FSA)
Co. Ferr. 
Nordeste
(CFN)
Ferroban
(FBN)
Bid
Minimum  
    60.2
316.9
888.9
16.6
158.0
11.5
233.4
Actual 
62.4
316.9
888.9
18.5
216.6
15.7
245.0
Premium (%)
3.5
0
0
11.3
37.1
37.9
4.9
To Governmt: 
3.0
15.8
44.4
0.83
7.9
0.5
11.6
To RFFSA: 
57.2
301.5
844.4
15.8
150.1
10.9
221.7
Down payment
% min. Bid)
10%
20%
30%
10%
20%
20%
20%
Total
6.0
63.3
266.7
1.6
31.6
2.3
11.6 (*)
Other payments
Grace period
2 yrs.
2 yrs.
1 yr.
2 yrs.
2 yrs.
3 yrs.
2 yrs.
# Quarters inst.
112
112
116
112
112
108
112
Notes:
  All figures are in R$ millions. 
(*) In the case of Malha Paulista there was a second installment of R$ 35 million.
The information on the number of bidders was provided by Rio’s Stock Exchange.
Source:
  RFFSA (1998).
project 
restructur.
net
year
investmts
staff & other
down-
leases
cash flow
(R$m.)
costs
payments
1995
1996
297.5
77
432.2
57.7
1997
220.2
73
6.5
27.8
-258.9
1998
101.5
97
58.3
194.2
54.0
1999
38.8
97
231.9
96.1
2000
6.0
65
231.9
160.9
2001
6.4
58
263.4
199.0
2002
9.7
56
263.4
197.7
2003
55
263.4
208.4
2004
263.4
263.4
2005
263.4
263.4
2006
263.4
263.4
2007
263.4
263.4
2008
263.4
263.4
2009
263.4
263.4
2010
263.4
263.4
Financial rate of return:
69%
concession
Table 3 -  Ex-post Financial Evaluation
Source: RFFSA (2002) and mission estimates
- 16 -
Page  20
Table 4. Concessions' Performance Production (billion TKU, target vs. actual)
Concessionary
B
eginning 
of 
Concession
Prior 
Contractual 
Period
1st year              
of         
Operation
2nd year          
of 
Operation
3rd year         
of 
Operation
4th year      
of 
Operation
5th year         
of 
Operation
Accumulated
actual
1.49
1.52
1.51
1.54
1.67
1.53
7.76
target
2.00
2.00
2.20
2.50
2.80
11.50
%
76.2
75.3
69.8
66.6
54.6
67.5
actual
6.16
5.35
6.39
7.15
7.56
8.20
34.66
target
6.50
7.00
8.00
9.10
10.30
40.90
%
82.3
91.3
89.4
83.1
79.6
84.8
actual
18.59
20.16
21.55
21.75
26.58
27.47
117.52
target
21.00
22.00
23.30
24.60
26.00
116.90
%
96.0
98.0
93.4
108.1
105.7
100.5
actual
0.091
0.154
0.163
0.176
0.278
0.213
0.984
target
----
----
----
----
----
----
%
----
----
----
----
----
----
actual
6.80
6.90
8.61
9.61
10.78
11.96
47.86
target
8.00
8.80
9.70
10.70
11.70
48.90
%
86.3
97.8
99.1
100.8
102.2
97.9
actual
0.516
0.640
0.919
0.711
0.700
0.757(
1
)
3.726
target
0.90
1.20
1.50
1.70
1.80
7.10
%
71.1
76.6
47.4
41.2
42.0
52.5
actual
5.01
5.98
8.28
8.30
27.58
target
----
4.33
4.76
9.09
%
----
138.2
173.8
303.2
FERRO
V
I
A 
NOR
VO
ESTE S.
A.
FERRO
V
I
A  
CENTRO
- 
ATLANTICA S.A.
MRS LOGíSTIC
A 
S.A.
FERRO
V
I
A  
TERE
ZA 
CRISTIN
A 
S.A. (*)
AMÉRIC
A  LA
TIN
A 
LOGíSTIC
A DO 
BRASIL S.A.
COMP
ANHIA  
FERRO
V
I
ARIA DO 
NORDESTE
FERRO
V
I
AS 
BANDEIR
ANTES 
S.A.
7/1/1996
9/1/1996
12/1/1996
2/1/1997
3/1/1997
1/1/1998
1/1/1999
Source: Ministry of Transports, Rail Transport Department
- 17 -
Page  21
Table 4.1. Concessions' Performance Number of Accidents 
(accidents per million of trains/km target vs.actual)
Concessionary
B
eginning 
of 
Concession
1st year              
of         
Operation
2nd year          
of 
Operation
3rd year         
of 
Operation
4th year      
of 
Operation
5th year         
of 
Operation
actual
170.80
182.23
164.58
150.83
192.41
target
----
98.80
88.40
72.80
62.40
%
----
54.2
53.7
48.3
32.4
actual
117.51
89.33
92.21
88.38
87.05
target
----
99.75
89.25
73.50
63.00
%
----
111.7
96.8
83.2
72.4
actual
61.97
49.57
48.69
34.76
27.88
target
----
62.70
56.10
46.20
39.60
%
----
126.5
115.2
132.9
142.0
actual
117.30
29.08
22.29
23.47
12.34
target
----
154.80
129.00
86.00
60.20
%
----
532.3
578.8
366.5
142.0
actual
105.91
56.70
42.42
41.12
39.65
target
----
76.00
68.00
56.00
48.00
%
----
134.0
160.3
136.2
121.1
actual
391.27
393.33
283.55
262.27
314.70 (
1
)
target
----
144.50
127.50
110.50
102.00
%
----
36.7
45.0
42.1
32.4
actual
139.11
66.22
63.26
44.10
target
----
139.65
124.95
102.90
88.20
%
----
210.9
197.5
233.3
FERRO
V
I
A 
NOR
VO
ESTE S.
A.
7/1/1996
FERRO
V
I
A  
CENTRO- 
ATLANTICA S.A.
9/1/1996
MRS LOGíSTIC
A 
S.A.
12/1/1996
FERRO
V
I
A  
TEREZ
A CRISTIN
A 
S.A. (*)
2/1/1997
FERRO
V
I
AS 
BANDEIR
ANTES 
S.A.
1/1/1999
AMÉRIC
A  LA
TIN
A 
LOGíSTIC
A DO 
BRASIL S.A.
3/1/1997
COMP
ANHIA  
FERRO
V
I
ARIA DO 
NORDESTE
1/1/1998
Source: Ministry of Transports, Rail Transport Department
- 18 -
Page  22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix
 
Projected in last PSR
1
Actual/Latest Estimate
 
. average transport cost    (UScent/ton-km)
2.0
1.3
. federal railway traffic
   (billion ton-km / year)
53
53.5
. staff productivity
   (million ton-km per employee)
2.3
4.9
. locomotive availability 
   (percent of fleet)
80
80
. locomotive productivity
   (million ton-km / year)
60
40
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix
 
Projected in last PSR
1
Actual/Latest Estimate
 
OPERATIONAL RESTRUCTURING AND 
CONCESSIONING:
- concession bidding & contracting
  .nbr. of bidding documents published
  .nbr. of auctions completed 
  .nbr. of concessions contracted
- organization of RFFSA supervision fct.
  . nbr. of regional offices operational
  
- staffing of RFFSA: nbr. of staff
      6
      6
      6
       4
   500
       7
       7
       7
      12
    528
STAFF RETRENCHMENT:
- reduction of staff (basis 41.991, May 95)
  .nbr. of contracts terminated
  . of which retirement
  . retraining of redundant staff
  . re-employment assistance
18,000
  5,000
  9,000
13,000
17,879 plus 17,096 by concessionaires
10,110
  1,953
     172
EMERGENCY REHABILITATION:
- locomotive rehabilitated
- nbr. of loco/wagon wheels replaced
- track rehabilitation expenditures in US$m.
- loco differed maintenance expend. US$m.
- track maintenance expenditures in US$m.
     240
13,500
    23.0
  150.0
    20.0
       64
  5,582
    19.5
  150.0
    21.8
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
- nbr. of sites surveyed
  150
  170
REGULATORY REFORM
- nbr. of regulation staff training weeks
  
  100
  130
RFFSA FINANCIAL RESTRUCTURING
- revenues from rail assets, cumul. US$m
- revenues from non-rail assets, cum.US$m.
- debt reduction, 
     payment of principal, US$m
    650
 1,000
   700
    811
    293
 1,454
1
 
End of project
June 30, 2002
- 19 -
Page  23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal
Estimate
Actual/Latest 
Estimate
Percentage of 
Appraisal
Component
US$ million
US$ million
Operations Restructuring and Concessioning
13.10
13.51
103
Staff Retrenchment Program
395.00
442.78
112
Emergency Rehabilitation Program
248.30
145.44
59
Environmental Management Component
1.20
0.58
48
Regulatory Reform Component
0.30
1.85
617
Financial Restructuring and Settlement
7.40
14.90
201
Total Baseline Cost
665.30
619.06
  Physical Contingencies
25.70
  Price Contingencies
9.00
Total Project Costs
700.00
619.06
Total Financing Required
700.00
      
619.06
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) 
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category
ICB
Procurement
 
NCB
 
Method
1
Other
2
N.B.F.
Total Cost
1.  Works
0.00
 
45.00
0.00
30.00
75.00
(
0.00
)
(
34.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
34.00
)
2.  Goods
120.00
35.00
0.00
70.00
225.00
(
100.00
)
(
26.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
126.00
)
3.  Services
0.00
0.00
20.00
0.00
20.00
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
20.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
20.00
)
4.  Separation Grants
0.00
0.00
340.00
40.00
380.00
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
170.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
170.00
)
5.  Miscellaneous
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
6.  Miscellaneous
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
     Total 
120.00
80.00
360.00
140.00
700.00
(
100.00
)
(
60.00
)
(
190.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
350.00
)
- 20 -
Page  24
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) 
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category
ICB
Procurement
 
NCB
 
Method
1
Other
2
N.B.F.
Total Cost
1.  Works
0.00
 
19.51
0.00
21.80
41.31
(
0.00
)
(
14.65
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
14.65
)
2.  Goods
43.02
0.40
0.00
61.20
104.62
(
33.67
)
(
0.34
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
34.01
)
3.  Services
0.00
0.00
22.16
11.64
33.80
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
17.82
)
(
0.00
)
(
17.82
)
4.  Separation Grants
0.00
0.00
400.41
38.92
439.33
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
191.15
)
(
0.00
)
(
191.15
)
5.  Miscellaneous
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
6.  Miscellaneous
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
     Total 
43.02
19.91
422.57
133.56
619.06
(
33.67
)
(
14.99
)
(
208.97
)
(
0.00
)
(
257.63
)
1/
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the 
Bank Loan
.  All costs include contingencies.
2/
Includes consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, and technical 
assistance services.
Project Financing by 
Component
 (in US$ million equivalent)
Component
Appraisal Estimate
Actual/Latest Estimate
Percentage of Appraisal
Bank
Govt.
CoF.
Bank
Govt.
CoF.
Bank
Govt.
CoF.
Operations Restructuring 
and Concessioning
0.60
12.50
1.64
11.87
273.3
95.0
Staff Retrenchment 
Program
184.95
210.05
194.57
248.21
105.2
118.2
Emergency Rehabilitation 
Program
138.14
110.16
48.24
97.20
34.9
88.2
Environmental 
Management Component
1.20
0.54
0.04
45.0
Regulatory Reform 
Component
0.30
1.81
0.04
603.3
Financial Restructuring 
and Settlement
7.40
10.83
4.07
146.4
- 21 -
Page  25
Annex 3.  Economic Costs and Benefits
The benefits derived from the project are: (i) the reductions of rail transport costs resulting from the improved
 
productivity of the privately-operated railroads; and (ii) the transport cost savings for the additional traffic that the 
railroads captured from trucking. The ex-post evaluation followed the same methodology as the ex-ante evaluation, 
but it also included the ex-FEPASA operation while the ex-ante evaluation only included the six ex-RFFSA
 
operations. The retained "without project" scenario was based on the continuation of the stagnation (including
 
traffic and productivity) which characterized the public railways prior to privatization.   
project 
concession
Inlation
railways
net
year
investmts
investmts
traffic
op. exp.
op. cost
Index
op.cost
base traffic
transfer.traffic
benefits
(R$m.)
(R$m.)
billion tkm
R$/1000tkm
R$/1000tkm
(IGP-DI)
(adj. 1996)
(R$m)
(R$m)
(R$m)
1995
42.5
21.4
42.0
0.67
1996
297.5
13.0
40.0
21.0
40.0
0.75
40.0
0
0
-311
1997
220.2
307.0
41.0
19.0
39.8
0.82
36.4
146
12
-325
1998
101.5
198.0
44.0
18.0
34.2
0.86
29.8
427
60
226
1999
38.8
276.0
47.0
17.0
33.3
0.93
26.9
572
116
434
2000
6.0
392.0
53.3
16.3
33.0
1.05
23.6
766
242
724
2001
6.4
366.0
58.2
19.5
36.0
1.17
23.1
831
336
928
2002
9.7
127.0
60.5
1.28
24.0
804
369
1093
2003
200.0
63.5
24.0
828
423
1052
2004
200.0
66.7
24.0
854
481
1134
2005
200.0
70.0
24.0
880
541
1221
2006
200.0
73.5
24.0
908
604
1312
2007
200.0
75.7
24.0
926
643
1369
2008
200.0
78.0
truck cost
24.0
944
684
1428
2009
200.0
80.4
R$/1000 tku
24.0
963
726
1489
2010
200.0
82.8
60.0
24.0
982
770
1552
Net present value (R$million):
4,148
Internal Rate of Return
64%
savings
railways 
- 22 -
Page  26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle
Performance Rating
 No. of Persons and Specialty
 (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)
Month/Year
  Count 
    Specialty
Implementation
Progress
Development
Objective
Identification/Preparation
04/17/1995
2
TASK MANAGER (1); 
ENGINEER (1)
S
S
Appraisal/Negotiation
04/15/1996
3
TASK MANAGER (1); 
INSTITUTIONAL 
SPECIALIST (1); 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
SPECIALIST (1)
S
S
Supervision
10/16/1996
3
TASK MANAGER (1); 
ECONOMIST (1); 
ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST 
(1)
S
S
12/20/1996
3
TASK MANAGER (1); 
ECONOMIST (1); 
ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST 
(1)
S
S
06/06/1997
2
TASK MANAGER (1); 
CONSULTANT (1)
S
S
02/20/1998
3
TASK MANAGER (1); 
CONSULTANT ECONOMIST 
(1); OPERATIONS OFFICER 
(1)
S
S
05/29/1998
5
TEAM LEADER (1); 
ECONOMIST (1); FINANCIAL 
ANALYST (1); RAILWAYS 
ADVISER (1); REGULATION 
ADVISER (1)
S
S
06/09/1999
3
TEAM LEADER (1); 
CONSULTANT ECONOMIST 
(1); PROJECT OFFICER (1)
S
S
05/19/2000
2
TEAM LEADER (1); PROJECT 
OFFICER (1)
S
S
02/15/2001
2
TASK TEAM LEADER (1); 
TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)
S
S
11/29/2001
3
LEAD TRANSPORT ECO. (1); 
TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1); 
ENGINEER (1)
S
S
ICR
05/2002
2
SR. TRANSPORT ECO. (1); 
TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)
S
S
- 23 -
Page  27
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle
Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks
US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
38.0
163.0
Appraisal/Negotiation
9.0
67.0
Supervision
59.60
203.0
ICR
4.0
10.0
Total 
110.6
443.0
- 24 -
Page  28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
 Rating
Macro policies
H
SU
M
N
NA
Sector Policies
H
SU
M
N
NA
Physical
H
SU
M
N
NA
Financial
H
SU
M
N
NA
Institutional Development
H
SU
M
N
NA
Environmental
H
SU
M
N
NA
Social
Poverty Reduction
H
SU
M
N
NA
Gender
H
SU
M
N
NA
Other (Please specify)
H
SU
M
N
NA
safeguards for living conditions of 
retrenched employees
Private sector development
H
SU
M
N
NA
Public sector management
H
SU
M
N
NA
Other (Please specify)
H
SU
M
N
NA
- 25 -
Page  29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(
HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance
Rating
Lending
HS
S
U
HU
Supervision
HS
S
U
HU
Overall
HS
S
U
HU
6.2  Borrower performance
Rating
Preparation
HS
S
U
HU
Government implementation performance
HS
S
U
HU
Implementation agency performance
HS
S
U
HU
Overall
HS
S
U
HU
- 26 -
Page  30
Annex 7. 
List of Supporting Documents
1. Brazil Federal Railways Restructuring and Privatization Project, Staff Appraisal Report, Report No. 15580-BR, 
May 29, 1996.
2. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
 
Development to the Executive Directors on a Proposed Loan in an amount equivalent to US$350 million to the
 
Federative Republic of Brazil for a Federal Railways Restructuring and Privatization Project, Report No.
 
P-6907-BR, May 29, 1996.
3. Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil and the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development, Loan Number 4046-BR, Project Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil and the
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Loan Number 4046-BR, September 17, 1996.
4. Amendment to the Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement
 
between the Federative Republic of Brazil and the
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Loan Number 4046-BR, December 1, 1998.
5. Federal Railways Restructuring and Privatization Project, Supervision Reports (Forms 590), or Project Status
 
Reports from July 1996 to November 2002.
6. Federal Highway Decentralization Project, Supervision Reports (Form 590), or Project Status Reports from May 
2001 to November 2002.
7. Amendment to the Loan Agreement between the Federative
 
Republic of Brazil and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development, Loan Number 4188-BR, August 8, 2002, and to the Project Agreement between 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem, 
Loan Number 4188-BR, August 8, 2002.
and Project Agreements between the Federative 
8. Preços, Custos e Subsídios no Transporte de Carga, Texto para Discussão, NEMESIS - Núcleo de Estudos e
 
Modelos Espaciais Sistêmicos, Newton de Castro, 2002.
9. Brazil Multimodal Freight Transport: Selected Regulatory Issues, Antonio Estache, The World Bank, Report
 
No. 16361-BR, October 15, 1997.
10. Brazil Public-Private Partnership in Transport Infrastructure, Progress and Challenges, Volume 1: Summary of 
Main Findings, J. Luis Guasch, The World Bank, Report No. 20702-BR, June 30, 2000.
11. Reestruturação do Setor Transporte, Lei No. 10.233, June 5, 2001, República Federativa do Brasil.
12. Relatório Trimestral de Andamento do Projeto de Reestruturação e Privatização de Ferrovias Federais conforme 
Acordo de Empréstimo BIRD No. 4046-BR, RFFSA, Various dates.
13. Relatórios Anuais, RFFSA, Various dates.
14. Relatório Trimestral de Acompanhamento das Concessões, RFFSA, Various dates.
15. Relatório de Avaliação da Prestação dos Serviços aos Usuários, RFFSA, Dezembro 1997.
16. Estudos de Avaliação da Situação de Pessoal Desligado, Universidade Católica do Rio de Janeiro e Instituto
 
Datafolha de Pesquisas, January 1998, September 1998 and March 1999.
17. Ex-post financial and economic analysis, February 2003.
18.  Borrower's comments on the draft Implementation Completion Report, May 8, 2003
- 27 -
Page  31
- 28 -
