Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15580-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
May 29, 1996
Infrastructure and Urban Development Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Real (R$)
US$1 = R$0.995 (May 14, 1996)
This exchange rate has been used throughout the report unless otherwise indicated
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AN]) ACRONYMS
ABF            - Associacao Brasileira de Ferrovias
Brazilian Association of Railways (proposed)
BNDES          - Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econ6mico e Social
National Economic and Social Development Bank
CBTU           - Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos
Brazilian Urban Train Company
COFER          - Comissao Federal dos Transportes Ferroviarios
Federal Rail Transport Commission
CPMS           - Computerized Project Management System
CVRD           - Companhia Vale do Rio Doce
Vale do Rio Doce Company
DTF            - Departamento dos Transportes Ferroviarios
Rail Transport Department of the Ministry of Transport
EMC            - Environmental Management Component
ERP            - Emergency Rehabilitation Program
FEPASA         - Ferrovia Paulista S.A.
Sao Paulo State Railway
FRS            - Financial Restructuring and Settlement Component
IERR           - Internal Economic Rate of Return
GEIPOT         - Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento dos Transportes
National Transport Planning Agency
GOB            - Government of Brazil
INSS           - Instituto Nacional de Seguridade Social
National Social Security Institute
LA             - Loan Agreement
MT             - Ministerio dos Transportes
Ministry of Transport
NPV            - Net Present Value
ORC            - Operations Restructuring and Concessioning Component
PA             - Project Agreement
PIP            - Project Implementation Plan
PM             - Project Manager
PMU            - Project Management Unit
REM            - Real Estate Manager
RFFSA          - Rede Ferroviaria Federal S.A.
Federal Railways
REFER          - Railway Staff Pension Fund
RRC            - Regulatory Reform Component
SR             - Superintendencia Regional
RFFSA Regional Superintendency
SRP            - Staff Retrenchment Program



BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No
Loan and Project Summary ............................................. (i)
I. TRANSPORT SECTOR OVERVIEW..                                                                                              I
A. The Transport Sector in the Economy .1
B. The Macroeconomic Policy Framework .1
C. The Transport System.                                                                                               2
D. Sector Policy and Institutional Reform.                                                                             3
E. The Railway Industry: Economic Role and Performance.                                                                4
F. Railway Regulation.                                                                                                 5
G. Bank Sector Experience and Strategy.                                                                                6
II. THE FEDERAL RAILWAYS (RFFSA)                                    ......................                                  7
A. Historical Summary  . ............................................   7
B. Operations and Marketing .......................................... 8
C. Operations Restructuring and Concessioning Plan   ..........................   9
D. Staff Productivity and Redundancy   ...................................  10
E. Investment and Maintenance .                  ....................................... 11
F.  Finances    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
III. THE PROJECT    ................................................  13
A. Project Origin, Objectives and Rationale  ................................  13
B. Project Description .............................................. 14
C.  Project Cost and Financing  .               .......................................  18
D. Financial Analysis ..............................................  19
E.  Environmental and Economic Assessments   .............................. 20
F.  Project Risks  ................................................   22
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION   ............... ..                                     .....................  23
A. Institutional Responsibilities   ....................................... 23
B.  Organizational Arrangements    .                 .....................................  23
C. Project Implementation Plan .                 ....................................... 24
D. Procurement Arrangements  .                  .......................................  26
E.  Disbursement, Accounting and Audit Arrangements ......................... 27
F.  Monitoring and Supervision Plan   ..........                        ..........................  28
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...................... 29
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Brazil during February 1996. The mission comprised
Messrs. Jacques Cellier (Task Manager, LAIIU), Louis Thompson (Railway Adviser, TWUTD), Antonio Estache (Senior
Economist, LAIIU), Newton de Castro (Consultant Economist), and Vitor Bellia (Environment Consultant). Messrs. Ioannis
Kessides (PSD) and Roberto Mosse (OPR) were Peer Reviewers. Ms. Joy Obialor provided administrative support. Messrs. Asif
Faiz, Orville Grimes, and Gobind T. Nankani are respectively the managing Division Chief, Projects Adviser, and Department
Director for the operation.



VI. ANNEXES
1. Macroeconomic and Structural Reform  Background ....................... 31
2. Bank Experience with Railway Projects in Brazil and Argentina.  ....                   ....... ... 35
3. Operations Restructuring and Concessioning Component  ................... 40
4. Staff Retrenchment Program, Retraining and Outplacement Assistance    .......                     ... 45
5. Emergency Rehabilitation Program   ................................. 56
6. Environmental Management Component ..............................  61
7. Regulatory Reform  Component  ...................................  66
8. Financial Restructuring and Settlement Component  ....................... 75
9. Financial Analysis              ...........................................   78
10. Project Economic Analysis ......................................  86
11. Project Implementation Plan, Indicators and Targets  ...................... 96
Table 1. Project Cost and Financing   ................................ 96
2. Monitoring Indicators and Targets  ............................ 97
3. Procurement Schedule for Major Contracts   ...................... 98
4. Allocation of Loan Proceeds   ............................... 99
5. Disbursement Schedule  ................................... 99
Chart 1. Project Implementation Time Schedule  ........................  100
2. RFFSA  Reorganization  ..................................  103
12. Project Monitoring and Supervision Plan  ............................  104
13. Supporting Tables:
Table 1. Brazil's Transportation Expenditures by Mode   ...................  106
2. Brazil's National and Transportation Aggregates  ..................  107
3. Freight Railway Productivity Ratios  ..........................  108
4. RFFSA  Traffic, Productivity and Financial Ratios, 1958-1995   ...                  ...... 109
5. RFFSA  Investments, 1987-1994  ............................  110
6. RFFSA  Statements of Income .............................. 110
14. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File  .................  111
Map: IBRD No. 27392: Brazil - Railway Network, RFFSA Regions and Proposed Concessions



BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                     Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing Agency:          Rede Ferroviaria Federal S.A. (RFFSA)
Beneficiary:                  Rede Ferroviaria Federal S.A. (RFFSA)
Poverty:                      Not applicable
Amount:                       US$350 million equivalent
Terms:                        Repayment in 15 years, including five years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate for currency pool loans
Commitment Fee:               0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver
Onlending Terms:              Not applicable
Financing Plan:               See para. 3.17 and Table 1, Annex 11
Net Present Value:            R$2.6 billion
Map:                          IBRD No. 27392: Brazil - Railways, RFFSA Regions and
Planned Concessions
Project Identification Number:  BR-PA-40028






BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
I. TRANSPORT SECTOR OVERVIEW
A. The Transport Sector in the Economy
1.01   The transport sector accounts for a rather low R$13 billion or 4.3 percent of Brazil's GNP. Road
transport alone accounts for about 3.2 percent. But these figures exclude the very important segments
of own-account transport, services by truck owner-operators, and private automobile use, which are not
accounted for in GNP calculations. Total transportation expenditures amount to about US$90 billion
equivalent; road transport accounts for 85 percent, and rail transport for only about two percent of that
total (Table 1, Annex 13). The transport industry has grown at rates which systematically exceeded those
of GNP and other industries. In the 1970s, when GDP increased at an average 8.5 percent per year, the
transport industry grew at over 11 percent per year; in the 1980s and early 1990s, when GDP grew at
an average two percent per year, the transport industry grew at three percent per year on average
(Table 2, Annex 13).
1.02   Public investments in transport, which used to account for about 40 percent of total public capital
formation in the 1960s and the early 1970s and reached 3.3 percent of GNP in 1975, have drastically
decreased to below one percent of GNP since 1981. Road expenditures in particular had to be curtailed
severely, which resulted in the deterioration of large portions of the networks built in the 1950s and
1960s.  The unsatisfactory operational and financial performance of the railways also led to
underinvestment, insufficient maintenance, and to the deterioration of railway tracks, motive power and
rolling stock. Because of the size of the transport industry, its direct impact upon the productive sectors,
the extensive involvement of the government and the fiscal implications, the performance of the transport
sector is critical to the success of the Government's economic stabilization and growth efforts.
B. The Macroeconomic Policy Framework
1.03   The macroeconomic policy framework in Brazil remains within the parameters outlined in the
Base Case of the Country Assistance Strategy, which was discussed by the Board of Executive Directors
on June 29, 1995. Core inflation remains below its targeted level with a rate of under one percent per
month, and actual inflation for 1995, at 15 percent, was the lowest in decades. The balance of payments
also remained strong, and gross international reserves have continued to accumulate, reaching $52 billion
by December 1995, or 11 months of imports of goods and nonfactor services. This has occurred despite
a weakening of the current account deficit to 2.6 percent of GDP, higher than anticipated as a result of
more rapid growth in 1995 and an appreciation of the real exchange rate. These positive outcomes for
inflation and the balance of payments appear set to continue in the medium term (Annex 1).
1.04   Fiscal policy, however, weakened in 1995, with the operational balance of the public sector
declining from a surplus of 0.5 percent of GDP in 1994 to a deficit of 5 percent in 1995. The primary
balance remained in surplus in 1995 (0.4 percent of GDP), but was significantly lower than in 1994 (4.3
percent of GDP). The most important factors behind this deterioration were an increase in wages and
a much higher domestic interest bill resulting from tight monetary policy and an accumulation of internal
debt by Federal and State governments. While the Government is committed to reducing fiscal deficits



- 2 -
over the medium term, it has been hampered by structural rigidities in public sector accounts (revenue
earmarking, payroll and pension rigidities and interest consume almost all the budget). The structural
reforms required to improve the situation (privatization, pension, administrative and tax reforms) have
been progressing slowly through the political system, but should provide the basis for fiscal improvements
on both operational and primary balances in 1997 and 1998 (Annex 1). The sectoral adjustment
supported by the project would contribute positively to this medium-term fiscal improvement.
C. The Transport System
1.05   Institutions. Through a Constitutional mandate, the Federal Government is required to operate
interstate and international rail, water, air and passenger road transport, including port and airport
services, either directly or through concessions or other forms of authorization. The state expanded its
direct control over the sector in the 1950s-1970s. It took control of the many privately-owned railroads,
merging them into the federal railways (RFFSA) and the Sao Paulo state railway (FEPASA), and it has
retained majority shareholder control, through Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (CVRD), of the two other,
primarily ore-carrier railways. The port facilities and operations, with some exceptions, have been
incorporated into the former Portobras system. The state, through the Portobras system, Petrobras for
oil-specialized operations and CVRD for minerals, and through concessions to private companies, has
been controlling the country's entire port system. In addition, the state owns and operates a substantial
portion of the merchant fleet (through Lloydbras, Petrobras and Docenave) and is present in inland
shipping. The Federation also received a mandate to regulate road freight transport through a law passed
in 1984, but this industry has never been regulated in practice and has generally remained efficient. By
contrast, the State's direct control over the railroads has led to their poor operational and financial
performance (section E) and to inadequate railway regulations (section F).
1.06   Networks. The South and Southeast regions of Brazil have a dense system of highways and
railways. Substantial portions of the highway networks have deteriorated as a result of very heavy traffic
and inadequate maintenance. Many highways require rehabilitation or strengthening, and some also need
to be widened. There is scope, however, for the railways to increase their participation in the transport
along the main north-south and export corridors, which could help postpone some highway capacity
investments. The Center-West frontier region, in which an unprecedented expansion of agriculture has
been taking place, has as yet very sparse highway and feeder road networks. The bulk of the region's
exports is transported by truck at a very high cost. Efficient inter-modal services based on the railways
which connect the southeastern part of the region to Sao Paulo-Santos and to Belo Horizonte-Vitoria and
the northern part of the region to Sao Luis, as well as on some of the rivers which flow from the region's
periphery, could reduce these costs. The Northeast region has a well developed highway network, with
substantially lower traffic levels, and an extensive railway system, mostly uneconomic, except for the
Carajas corridor. Coastal shipping has some importance in both intra- and inter-regional trades. The
North, with its sparse population and economic activity, has traditionally relied upon river transport for
both passenger and cargo movements in the Amazon basin. Air transport has an increasing role in
moving passengers and high-value goods over the long distances involved.
1.07   Operations. The unstable macroeconomic environment and the efforts made to control inflation
through reducing public expenditures and containing the rates of the public companies has led to the
postponement of needed maintenance activities and capacity investments; to the rapid deterioration of
important portions of the transport system, including trunk highways, railway tracks, motive power and
rolling stock, and port facilities; and to traffic congestion in important corridors. The cost of road
transport on deteriorated and/or congested highways increased despite technological advances in the truck
and bus manufacturing industries. In addition, Government regulation or direct intervention in the



- 3 -
management of public enterprises, through imposing uniform tariff policies and public service obligations,
has reduced their ability to adapt to market and technological changes, and led to the inefficient
operations, to poor service quality and to the chronic financial losses that characterize public companies.
This situation, together with the unattractive compensation packages offered in the public service, has led
to the present state of institutional degradation of the sector's public entities.
1.08   Investments.  Public investments in the transport sector, through the 1970s, went towards
expanding the transport system into the interior of the country to permit settlement and support new
economic activities, and towards increasing transport capacity on the eastern seaboard. The largest share
went to the construction of the primary highway network. After the first oil shock, federal priorities went
to the railway and port infrastructure of the main corridors, in support of the development of the steel
industry and of mineral and grain exports. In the early 1980s, public investments in the sector were
scaled down drastically; and priorities gradually shifted from new construction to maintenance and
rehabilitation. However, the Government's austerity program and the containment of the tariffs of the
public entities led to the postponement of needed maintenance and rehabilitation works and to the
deterioration of large portions of essential transport infrastructure sector-wide. Investments in transport
should therefore, in the short term, be focused on the rehabilitation and maintenance of the facilities and
on selected improvements and capacity increases to the existing systems, which are essential to the
recovery of economic growth. They should primarily support the country's agricultural and industrial
growth, and export objectives, and contribute to improving the efficiency and performance of transport
operators.
D. Sector Policy and Institutional Reform
1.09   The management of the transport sector is undergoing significant changes. A number of reforms,
which aim at reducing government expenditures in the sector, at deregulating and privatizing transport
services so as to allow market forces to be the primary determinant of the services provided, and at
decentralizing expenditure and financing responsibilities to lower levels of government, have been
recently undertaken or are about to be implemented. The Concession Law, enacted in February 1995,
establishes the legal framework for private concessions of public services. A proposal for a new
Transport Law, which would redefine the entire transport system under federal jurisdiction, is currently
being considered by the Congress. The following paragraphs summarize the status of these reforms in
highways, railways, ports and multimodal transport.
1.10   Highways. The Constitutional reform of 1988 decentralized fiscal revenues, transferring road
user taxes to States and Municipalities, but kept unchanged the distribution of responsibilities among the
three administrative levels. The reform has affected the ability of the Federation to rehabilitate and
maintain an extensive federal highway network, and to finance needed capacity investments. The
Government has decided to reduce the size of the road network under federal jurisdiction to the interstate
highways and international connections, to transfer the operation and maintenance of high-traffic highways
as well as capacity investments to private concessionaires where feasible, and to transfer other highways
to state jurisdictions. A highway concession program has been developed and is being implemented, with
five concessions already awarded. Agreements have been reached with the state governments on the
highways to be transferred from federal to state jurisdictions and on the main conditions of the transfers.
1.11   Railways. The Government has decided to restructure the federal railways (RFFSA) and to
concession their operations. BNDES proposed and the Government approved a privatization model which
consists of restructuring RFFSA into six regional systems and concessioning the operation and
maintenance of the systems. Concessionaires would lease fixed assets from RFFSA, and would have the



- 4 -
option of buying or leasing motive power and rolling stock. The Government's restructuring and
privatization plan for RFFSA is presented in Chapter II. The proposed project would assist the
Government in implementing the plan (Chapter III). Similarly, the Government of the State of Sao Paulo
decided to restructure and to privatize FEPASA, following a similar model. The federal and the state
governments are presently discussing FEPASA's transfer to federal jurisdiction. Finally, the Federal
Government decided to privatize CVRD, including the EFVM and EFC railways. The proposed project
would help implement the necessary measures to ensure adequate integration of the rail operations and
permit efficient inter-railroad and intermodal services (para 3.05).
1.12   Ports. The Government closed the National Port Holding Company "Portobras" in 1990 and the
Congress approved a law for a broad deregulation of the port system in February 1993. The Port Law
liberalizes port activities, enabling private terminals to operate for public use. It also decentralizes
normative and tariff setting responsibilities to newly-created local Port Authority Councils, and authorizes
private port operators to compete with the port administrations. The Government has recently developed
policies and guidelines to assist with the full implementation of the reform, including the privatization
of the ports and terminals, and a new organizational scheme for the labor force; and some ports,
including Santos, have made progress in implementing the reform.
1.13   Multimnodal Transport. The rapid evolution and expansion of intra- and inter-regional trade,
fostered by regional trade bloc initiatives and by agricultural expansion and industrial development in the
interior of Brazil, will require important changes in the national and international transport systems.
Freight carriers will be required to provide efficient and comprehensive logistic services to agricultural,
industrial and commercial shippers, and for this purpose they will have to seek innovative multimodal
transport solutions which maximize productivity and quality of service. This in turn will require a much
better integration of the transport systems, particularly railroads and ports, which represent the major
bottlenecks in the present transport system. The restructuring and privatization of railroads and port
terminals, if adequately carried out, is expected to resolve the bulk of the intra- and intermodal
bottlenecks. Progress has already been made since 1991 in removing entry restrictions in the ocean and
coastal shipping and multimodal transport industries, as well as in removing restrictions on inland
circulation of containers.  New legislation currently before the Congress would establish flexible
regulation for multimodal transport, and remove restrictions on the inland use of international containers,
and therefore would, if approved, further facilitate multimodal transport.
E. The Railway Industry: Economic Role and Perfonnance
1.14   Brazil's railway industry consists of four principal carriers: Rede Ferroviaria Federal S.A.
(RFFSA), which is owned by the Federal Government; Ferrovia Paulista S.A. (FEPASA), which is
owned by the State of Sao Paulo; Estrada de Ferro Vitoria a Minas (EFVM) and Estrada de Ferro Carajas
(EFC), which are primarily ore-carrier railways owned by CVRD. With 30,000 km of track, and a
freight traffic of approximately 120 billion ton-kilometers, Brazil's railway industry is the largest in Latin
America and can be compared to those in Mexico and Canada (Table 3, Annex 13). RFFSA is the main
operating entity, accounting for about two-thirds of total track length, rolling stock and employees.
RFFSA's traffic is reasonably well diversified, its iron ore traffic accounting for only 40%, while EFVM
and EFC are highly specialized ore carriers. For this reason, RFFSA carries only about one third of total
railway traffic measured in ton-kilometers (Table 3, Annex 13).
1.15   The role of the railway industry has declined with the development of the highway networks and
the trucking and bus industries over the past three decades. In particular, inter-city passenger services
have been almost entirely closed. The railway industry, however, continues to have an important role



in the transport of freight, since it accounts for about 25 % of total freight movements measured in ton-
kilometers. The railways have an advantage in handling long-haul bulk commodities such as mineral
ores. They also have an advantage over trucking on long-haul flows of petroleum products, but they are
losing some traffic to newly-built pipelines. They have been competing with some success in handling
large volumes of grains and grain products to consumption, processing or export centers on the eastern
seaboard; with improved performance, they could substantially increase their share of such traffic. They
lost most of the general cargo traffic to trucking in the past, but efficient railways and intermodal carriers
could re-capture a significant share of this important and potentially profitable traffic, as appears to be
happening in Argentina.
1.16   Both RFFSA and FEPASA have relatively low average traffic densities (1.8 and 1.5 million net
tons per year, respectively), which vary widely across the systems. For example, RFFSA's traffic
density ranges from over 11 million net-tons on its Southeastern lines which carry iron ore, to about
200,000 net-tons per year on the Northeast network, and seven out of the current twelve operating
regions have traffic densities below I million net-tons per year (Table 3, Annex 13). Thus a substantial
portion of the network is well below the level of minimum efficient density, and fails to earn revenues
in excess of variable costs. Because of Government intervention in response to local interests, the
railways have been unable to abandon low-density branch lines, which, together with the lack of agressive
marketing on the part of the public railways, explain such low track productivity. Labor productivity has
substantially increased with the important reductions of staff, although it still remains far below
comparable railways in Northern America (less than I million net ton-km per employee in RFFSA and
about half a million in FEPASA, as compared to over 5 million net ton-km per employee in Canada and
the US (Table 3, Annex 13). Motive power and wagon productivities are also low by international
standards, thereby adversely affecting the railways financial performance. RFFSA, except for 1992,
consistently incurred substantial operating losses ranging from US$390 million equivalent in 1988 to
US$159 million equivalent in 1994 (Table 6, Annex 13). These losses have contributed to the insufficient
investments, inadequate maintenance and to the deteriorating service which characterize the two general
carrier railways. A detailed analysis of Brazil's railway subsector is presented in Bank report No. 11752-
BR entitled "The Brazilian Railroad Industry: Options for Organizational Restructuring", and dated
February 15, 1994.
F. Railway Regulation
1.17   Although intermodal competition has been a factor in the decline of Brazil's railways, many
performance problems seem to have their origin, like in many other countries, in excessive government
regulatory control and intervention in the railways' operations, investments and finances. Until 1989,
the Government strictly controlled the level and structure of railway tariffs, and even after tariffs were
freed from the Government's direct control, railway tariff increases, as other prices, remained
subordinated to macroeconomic considerations through various stabilization plans, including the current
Plano Real. In addition to the impact on average tariff levels, regulatory controls also caused significant
distortions. In particular, the value of service rate structure encouraged high-value cargoes to shift to
trucks. Besides price controls, the Government has also imposed public service obligations to the
railways, such as the operation of non-remunerative inter-city passenger and commuter services, and the
operation of uneconomic branch lines. Government justification for such intervention has generally been
social and regional development objectives, but short term political benefits have also been a factor.
Efforts made by the railways to obtain Government compensation for such public service obligations
generally were not successful. Inter-city passenger services were gradually closed, and commuter train
operations were separated from the freight railways and are now being transferred to state and local
governments. But there is still a need to rationalize the networks through abandonment of uneconomic



branch lines, in particular in the Northeast. Government interference in the railways' investments,
imposing programs or projects which do not reflect the railways' true development priorities or their
financial capacities, has further affected the railways' operational and financial performance.
1.18   In order to reduce such intervention in railways' operations and investments, and to improve their
performance, the Government recently redesigned the railway regulatory framework. The new regulation
would in particular: (a) permit operators to freely set their prices for services which face effective
competition; (b) permit operators to set prices that are responsive to differences in demands and in
marginal costs, and to enter into voluntary contracts with shippers that have individualized terms and
conditions; and (c) constrain the prices which a railway sets for captive shippers over whom the railway
has monopoly power, by the stand-alone costs of the shipper's services (Annex 7). The Government
would strengthen MT's Department of Rail Transport (DTF) to implement the new regulation, and would
establish a Rail Transport Commission for dispute resolution. The proposed project would assist the
Government in implementing the regulatory reform (paras. 3.12 and 3.13).
G. Bank Sector Experience and Strategy
1.19   The Bank has made 30 loans in the transport sector since the early 1960s: 15 for highways and
feeder roads, five for railways, two for ports, and eight for urban transportation, in addition to financing
rural roads under a number of agriculture projects and the construction of the Carajas railway under the
Carajas Iron Ore project (Loan No. 2196-BR). Until the mid 1970s, the projects concentrated on the
expansion of the trunk highway network and on the improvement of the railway and mass transit systems.
The first port project, completed in 1981, helped finance the construction of a container terminal in
Santos. In subsequent years, emphasis gradually shifted to the maintenance and rehabilitation of the
interstate and trunk highway network, to the planning and implementation on a decentralized basis of
feeder roads programs, to the rehabilitation of important railway corridors, and to the improvement of
public bus transport and traffic management in the major cities. More recently, the Bank has been
supporting the rehabilitation and decentralization of CBTU's urban train systems with four loans, and
highway rehabilitation, maintenance and decentralization with one loan to the Federation and five loans
to states.
1.20   The Bank's involvement in the transport sector has been successful. The projects' physical
objectives have generally been met although the more recent difficult economic conditions and related
funding problems have sometimes caused delays. Progress has been made on policy reforms and
institutional strengthening (section D) though it has taken more time than expected, due to the size and
complexity of the sector, the large number of government agencies and public enterprises involved, and
the difficulty of reaching the needed consensus for policy reforms. Under the two recently completed
railway projects, progress was made towards the commercially oriented operation of both RFFSA and
FEPASA, in particular with the separation of commuter train operations, the closure of uneconomic inter-
city passenger services, the railways' freedom to set rates, and with staff reductions. However, the
Government's direct and indirect intervention in the management of the public railways has continued to
adversely affect their operational efficiency and financial performance (Annex 2).
1.21   The assistance of the Bank to the transport sector of Brazil will remain oriented by broader
country objectives, particularly: (a) the stabilization process, and the consequent need to contain public
expenditures, increase revenue mobilization and improve resource utilization in the sector; (b) the
resumption of economic growth, ensuring efficient and reliable infrastructure services to targeted growth
sectors of the economy; (c) the redefinition of the role of the state, strengthening its regulatory functions,



- 7 -
withdrawing from operational roles and promoting private sector operations and investment in
infrastructure; (d) the administrative decentralization; and (e) the environmental management dimension.
1.22   Emphasis will be upon the formulation and effective implementation of appropriate transport
policies including: (a) pricing policies, through continued liberalization of price controls, restoration of
adequate pricing policies and mechanisms in the public sector, and efficient user taxation; (b) re-design
of sector regulations, establishment of appropriate regulatory agencies, and effective implementation of
regulatory reform, which, together with efficient pricing mechanisms and privatization measures, aim at
restoring the role of market forces in the sector; (c) institutional reform, including effective
decentralization of government responsibilities, seeking an appropriate balance between fiscal revenues
and responsibilities, strengthening the normative and monitoring functions as well as technological and
human resource development at the center, and the planning, management and environmental control
capabilities of the decentralized entities; (d) privatization of operation and maintenance services through
concessions and management contracts; and (e) public investment programming and private sector
investment promotion based on appropriate economic, environmental and project finance analyses, aiming
in particular at facilitating intra- and inter-regional trade flows.
II. THE FEDERAL RAILWAYS (RFFSA)
A. Historical Summary
2.01   RFFSA was created in 1957 under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Transport (MT) by merging
18 independent railways built mostly by British and French concessionaires beginning in the 19th century.
The reason for unification and nationalization was to promote efficiency. In fact, Latin American
countries experienced a wave of nationalizations during the post World War II period, of which the
railways were a notable example. RFFSA had its origins in this movement.
2.02   Since nationalization, RFFSA's traffic has experienced relatively steady growth in line with the
rest of the Brazilian economy (Table 4, Annex 13). Unfortunately, the steady growth of traffic was not
accompanied by financial health or stable operations. Instead, a lack of business orientation at RFFSA
combined with constant Government intervention in RFFSA decision-making and politically imposed
redundant labor led to years of insufficient earnings. Government did not adequately compensate for the
lack of earnings, and RFFSA had to live through years of inadequate capital investment.
2.03   Government attempts at railway reform, which were supported by Bank lending, included labor
reduction programs, reductions in intercity passenger services and, perhaps most important, transfer of
suburban passenger operations and deficits into a separate organization (CBTU). There has been a
gradual shrinkage of the railway labor force and, with growing traffic, a consequent improvement in labor
productivity (Table 4, Annex 13). In spite of these reforms and improvements, however, RFFSA has
consistently been in deficit, especially if full costs are taken into account (Table 4, Annex 13).
2.04   The Government, realizing that attempts to reform RFFSA under the public umbrella have failed,
and after analyzing the experience of other Latin American countries, such as Argentina, Bolivia, Chile,
Guatemala, and now Mexico, has decided to restructure and to concession the operation and maintenance
of its railways to the private sector, and to redesign railway regulation in order to permit effective
competition with the trucking industry. It will be the first large-scale privatization of public infrastructure
services in Brazil. However, the Government has already successfully privatized important customers



- 8 -
of the railways, such as the steel industry, and is preparing to concession other transport services such
as ports and highways, as well as other sectors such as water and power. It is anticipated that most
shippers as well as transport operators will be privately organized, much less regulated, and much more
competitive; hence the prospects are good for a significant improvement of the performance of the
transport industry as a whole.
B. Operations and Marketing
2.05   RFFSA is organized into 12 essentially non-competing geographic "Regional Superintendencies
(SRs)" (IBRD Map No. 27392). RFFSA actually owns two rail networks, one meter gauge and the other
"broad gauge" (1.60 meter). The map also displays the other railways in Brazil, of which the most
important are FEPASA in Sao Paulo State, which has both meter and broad gauge trackage, and the two
CVRD railways, of which the Carajas railway in the Northeast is standard gauge and the EFVM railway
from Belo Horizonte to Vitoria is meter gauge. The combination of historical fragmentation among
railways and RFFSA's regions, gauge differences and Brazilian geography has effectively negated the
possibility of integrating Brazil's railways into one "system". Very little traffic is actually interchanged
among RFFSA's Regions and in the six proposed concessions, only two (Centro-Leste and Nordeste) are
physically contiguous and have the same gauge. RFFSA currently has relatively small interchange traffic
with FEPASA and EFVM railways, but the potential to increase such traffic is substantial. RFFSA has
already established trackage rights with the other railways, and will establish further trackage rights as
appropriate between the proposed concessions and the other railways (para. 3.05).
2.06   Substantial cross-regional differences in RFFSA's revenues and volumes of traffic exist which
have profound implications for the feasibility of the various options to geographically restructure the
system. The Southeast area, encompassing the economic triangle of Belo Horizonte, Rio de Janeiro and
Sao Paulo, generates almost three-quarters of the railway's tonnage. RFFSA's operation in the Southeast
is also its most productive, accounting for only 31 % of its trackage and 49% of its staff but generating
66% of its revenue. Three Superintendencies (SR3, SR2, and SR5) account for 80% of RFFSA's freight
tonnage and over 75% of its revenue. The next three most important regions (SR6, SR10, and SR7)
generate 14%  of the railroad's traffic and 14%  of its revenue.  Finally, the remaining six
Superintendencies (SR4, SR8, SR9, SR1, SR11, and SR12) account for less than 6% of the company's
freight tonnage and 11 % of its revenue.
2.07   RFFSA's activities are organized along four business lines, each consisting of industry-related
commodities: iron ore and steel, fuels, agriculture products, and construction materials. RFFSA's
business is distributed among these groups as follows: (a) iron ore and steel products, about 57% of
freight tonnage and 48% of revenues; (b) fuels, including petroleum products and alcohol, about 16%
of tonnage and 30% of revenues; (c) agriculture, including grain and grain products, about 18% of
tonnage and 14% of revenues; and (d) construction materials, about 9% of tonnage and 8% of revenues.
It is important to note that the average length of haul, approximately 450 km, is very short by North
American standards, confirming that the railway is very vulnerable to truck competition except for the
major movements of bulk commodities which are characterized by significant economies of scale.
2.08   RFFSA is burdened by excess capacity and uneconomic lines, in particular in the Northeast
region. It has a relatively low average traffic density (1.7 million net-tons per year) despite the fact that
it carries heavy freight traffic. This compares with over five million net-tons in the United States and
in Canada (Table 3, Annex 13). But freight traffic density varies dramatically across the Regional
Superintendencies, from 11 and 5 million net-tons in SR3 and SR4, to about 200,000 net-tons per year
in SRI and SR12. The system-wide average traffic density statistics, therefore, mask the severity of



-9 -
RFFSA's track productivity problem. Indeed, seven out of the 12 regions have traffic densities well
below 1 million net-tons, indicating that economies of scale of track are not being realized. Thus, a
substantial portion of RFFSA's trackage is well below the level of minimum efficient density and fails
to earn revenues in excess of variable cost, at current rail rates. However, because of Government
regulation and intervention, RFFSA has made only a modest progress in rationalizing its operations.
Between 1975 and 1995, its trackage was reduced by only 10% indicating only little abandonment of low-
density branchlines. In order to enable the concessionaires to effectively rationalize the networks, the
Government has: (a) presented to the Congress a proposal for a new Transport Law (Sistema Nacional
de Viacao, SNV), which, inter-alia, substantially reduces the railway network of national interest under
federal jurisdiction; and (b) re-designed the railway regulation to enable operators to abandon branch lines
which are not part of the new SNV, and to close operations on those branch lines under the SNV which
are shown to be uneconomic (Annex 7). The project would help to effectively implement the redesigned
regulation (paras. 3.12 and 3.13).
C. Operations Restructuring and Concessioning Plan
2.09   The Government, through BNDES, studied a number of alternatives to the current structure of
RFFSA, which would introduce incentives for the rail sector to minimize production costs and provide
profitable services, including: (a) vertical separation, with governmental ownership of way and structure
and privately organized and operated transportation services; (b) allowing private entrepreneurs to provide
their own services over the rail network, perhaps in competition with some of the services provided by
the integrated railroad itself; and (c) the lease or sale of the integrated railroad under a competitive
bidding process. Each of the above options has its own advantages and drawbacks. In view of the
geographic characteristics of Brazil and the size of the federal railways, as well as of the significant cross-
regional differences in RFFSA's traffic, the Government decided that RFFSA would be horizontally
restructured into a number of vertically integrated regional systems, and that concessions for the operation
and maintenance of these systems for 30 years would be auctioned to private operators, who would lease
the railway's assets. A minimum price is set for each concession. The price at which each concession
is bought is to be paid in part as a downpayment, shortly after the auction, and in part as a series of
quarterly lease payments to RFFSA. The proceeds from each downpayment would be divided, in
proportions to be determined in each concession, between the National Treasury and RFFSA. The
Government would, in each case, specify the application of RFFSA's revenues to reduce its debts.
2.10   The restructuring plan, which was prepared by BNDES and approved by the Government, is to
divide the RFFSA system into six regional concessions (IBRD Map No. 27392). The proposed
concessions are currently independent systems serving different markets, with no or limited inter-
connections and interchange traffic. Two of the proposed concessions are dominated by a limited number
of commodities: Sudeste (former SR3 and SR4) is a broad gauge iron ore and steel product carrier which
carries 52 percent of RFFSA's total ton-km on eight percent of its track; Tubarao (former SR9) is a small
carrier of coal from mine to power plant. Traffic for these two carriers has been and will be highly
dependent on a limited number of customers and markets. One potential concession, Nordeste (former
SRI, SRI 1 and SR12), is a light density "branch line" mixed commodity carrier operating in the poorest
Northeast region of Brazil. At least in the near future, Nordeste's traffic potential will be limited and
highly competitive with other modes. Nordeste is not, and probably cannot in the short term be
financially self-sustaining. The other three potential concessions have separate outlooks: Sul (former SR5
and SR6) carries a broad mix of commodities, all of which are either truck or pipeline competitive. Sul
is located in the most rapidly growing region of Brazil and is well-positioned to take advantage of any
traffic growth resulting from regional integration. Oeste (former SR10) connects the agricultural region
of Southern Brazil and Bolivia to the Atlantic ports via FEPASA. Oeste will prosper if Brazilian soya



- 10-
exports continue to grow and so long as pipeline competition is limited. Centro-Leste (forner SR2, SR7
and SR8) has a broad traffic mix based on its linkages between Rio, Sao Paulo and the Center-West
region of Brazil, including Brasilia, and a good potential in the transport of grain and grain products from
the Center-West to the consumption and export centers on the eastern seaboard. Centro-Leste, however,
is vulnerable both to truck competition and to a petroleum pipeline already under construction.
2.11   The market and financial analyses of each of the proposed concessions carried out by RFFSA and
BNDES suggest that all concessions could be profitable, with the possible exception of the Nordeste,
which needs further studies (Annexes 3 and 9). The basic indicators and current productivity ratios for
the proposed concessions are compared with those of other railways in Table 3, Annex 13. The
Argentine and Chilean concessions, which are already in operation, with appropriate caution because of
insufficient operating history, appear to be operating reasonably well. They provide benchmarks against
which to compare Brazil's concession prospects. Judging by traffic density (ton-km/km of line), all of
the proposed concessions (except Nordeste) are significantly better than any of the Argentine or Chilean
concessions. This is an important measure because low traffic density suggests that the underlying traffic
potential is questionable or that the size of the network is too large. With the proposed staff retrenchment
and emergency rehabilitation and maintenance programs, the performance of the proposed concessions
can be brought into line with or better than that of Chile and Argentina concessions (Annex 9). There
is every reason to believe that the proposed concessions can be solid financial propositions.
2.12   The implementation plan and timetable for the proposed operations restructuring and
concessioning plan is presented in Annex 11. The restructuring of the Oeste system has been completed
and the concession was successfully auctioned on March 5, 1996 to a consortium of investors and banks
from the United States. The restructuring and concessioning of the other systems is scheduled over 1996
and 1997 (Annex 11, Chart 1).
D. Staff Productivity and Redundancy
2.13   Although RFFSA has already made significant progress in dealing with the labor redundancy, its
labor productivity continues to be low. RFFSA reduced its total staff from about 110,000 in 1975 to
about 42,000 in May 1995. This reduction led to a substantial increase in labor productivity from
250,000 to almost 1 million net ton-km per employee. Still, RFFSA's labor productivity remains low
not only by North American standards (above 5 million ton-km per employee) but also when compared
to the recently restructured and concessioned railways in Argentina and Chile, which already have
productivity ratios above 1.5 million net ton-km per employee (Table 3, Annex 13). The labor
productivity ratios in the various regional systems show the seriousness of the labor redundancy problem
even better. The proposed Sudeste concession, with essentially iron ore and other large bulk shipment
traffic, has a productivity ratio of about 2 million net ton-km per employee, while the EFVM and EFC
railways respectively achieve 10 and 20 million ton-km per employee. The Sul, Centro-Leste, and Oeste
systems, which have ratios ranging from 700 to 800,000 net ton-km per employee, would need to reduce
their staff by almost half in order to reach productivity levels which are comparable to the Argentina and
Chile concessions. The Nordeste and Tubarao systems have productivity ratios between 200 and 300,000
net ton-km per employee.
2.14  In order to enable the implementation of the proposed concessionning plan, the Government has
decided to reduce RFFSA staff as necessary to turn the proposed concessions viable.  RFFSA
management has developed staffing plans for the six concessions, based on re-defined operational
procedures and consolidated responsibilities, and identified the number of redundant staff by job
categories. The total number of redundant staff was estimated at about 18,000 on the basis of RFFSA's



- I1 -
May 1995 staff of 41,991, excluding 4,000 staff that retired with early retirement benefits in early 1995.
The number of redundant staff by regional system is shown in Table 2, Annex 4. RFFSA designed and
prepared a staff retrenchment program on the basis of an analysis of redundant staff profiles against labor
market characteristics in the various regions, and optimized the various parameters through an econonic
analysis (Annex 4). The program, in addition to legally-required severance payments, which, as an
average, correspond to 10 months of salary, would include incentives for early retirement and voluntary
separation, involuntary separation grants for remaining redundant staff, re-training programs based on
regional employment opportunities, and job searching and outplacement assistance.
2.15   The program would be implemented in two phases at headquarters and in each region. In the first
phase, prior to concessioning, RFFSA would first implement the incentive schemes for early retirement
and voluntary separation, which would be offered only to certain categories of redundant staff and within
pre-determined limits. Depending on the results of the voluntary schemes, RFFSA would then lay off
redundant staff selectively, taking into account employee performance, and pay an involuntary separation
grant equivalent to 80% of the incentive. In the second phase, after concessioning, RFFSA would pay
an involuntary separation grant of the same amount as in the first phase to remaining redundant staff who
would not be hired by the concessionaire, up to a maximum number of staff specified in the concession
bidding documents. Compensation packages for additional layoffs beyond the specified number would
be the concessionaire's responsibility.
2.16   RFFSA has already reduced its staff by over 4,000 during 1995, mainly through early retirement
incentives, at a total cost of about US$40 million. RFFSA also completed the first phase of the
retrenchment program at headquarters (January 1996) and in the Oeste system (February 1996), reducing
staff by about 500 and 400 respectively. However, neither RFFSA nor the Government have the
resources necessary to fully implement the program. Further implementation of the program depends on
the availability of appropriate financing. The project would support the full implementation of the
program by providing financing for severance pay, re-training and outplacement assistance (paras. 3.07
to 3.09, and Annex 4).
E. Investment and Maintenance
2.17   RFFSA's total investment in the railway system declined every year since 1988, from US$267
million equivalent in 1988 to US$57 million in 1994, as a result of the railway's deteriorating financial
situation (Table 5, Annex 13). Until the late 1980s, the railway invested in the broad gauge system,
completing the Steel Railway, improving the Center line, and in rehabilitating locomotives, mostly with
financing from the shippers. From 1990, the only significant investments made by RFFSA were the track
rehabilitation and systems improvements in the Parana and Goias-Minas Gerais corridors, which were
financed by the Bank under the Federal Railway - Export Corridor Project (Loan No. 2563-BR).
Maintenance expenditures have also been drastically curtailed (Table 5, Annex 13).
2.18   As a result of insufficient investment and maintenance, locomotive availability, which is the
critical determinant of production capability, fell below 60 percent for the first time in 1994. RFFSA's
locomotive availability has continued to fall since 1994 and is now about 50 percent. This is comparable
to the situation in Argentina just before concessioning and is at the level of some of the worst of the
railways in the world. RFFSA is now actually refusing traffic, especially on the SR3 and SR4 systems,
due to insufficient available locomotives. The situation is especially critical on the Sudeste concession
where the output of the iron mines depends on RFFSA for shipment to port terminals or to steel mills.



- 12 -
2.19   Another consequence of RFFSA's lack of capital is the bad condition of the track. While it is
somewhat harder to measure track and fixed facility degradation than locomotives, available information
show that about one-third of RFFSA's network is in substandard condition owing to deferred track
maintenance. RFFSA suffered over 200 accidents in the first eight months of 1995, which were
attributable to bad track condition. The deterioration of the roadbed has led to reduced speeds, an
increased number of accidents, and a deterioration of service, which leads to diversion of traffic to
competing transport modes, causing a reduction in rail revenues, and further deferred maintenance and
concomitant deterioration in service. Also, because of shortage of capital, RFFSA was unable to make
investments which would have had very high rates of return. The most critical of these track problems
will need to be resolved before a concessionaire would be willing to take over operations on the lines.
2.20   Since neither RFFSA nor the Government have the resources to fund the necessary locomotive
and track repair and deferred maintenance programs which are necessary to allow for continued and safe
operation during the restructuring and concessioning process, and to enable the new concessionaires to
assume the systems in operating conditions, the project would include an emergency rehabilitation
program, and financing would be provided under the proposed loan for this purpose (para. 3.10). The
emergency rehabilitation program and its justification are presented in Annex 5.
F. Finances
2.21   During most of its history, RFFSA has generated losses on its operations. These persistent
operating losses reflect the pervasive organizational inefficiencies and low productivity, lack of
conimercial freedom, lack of market-oriented management structures, failure to significantly rationalize
operations by exiting from uneconomic low-density lines and shedding excess labor, and continuing
government-imposed obligations that rendered the railroad uncompetitive in the face of the growing
sophistication of road transport. Between 1988 and 1991, RFFSA incurred an average yearly operating
loss of US$378 million, after having received governmental contributions amounting to US$328 million
during the same period (Table 6, Annex 13). RFFSA has only rarely covered its operating costs from
revenues, even if "normalization" payments (i.e. Government payments to cover losses on public service
obligations) are included in total revenues. Over the last seven years, only in 1992 did RFFSA's gross
revenues cover its operating costs. In 1994, one of the best years in RFFSA's traffic history, transport
revenues barely covered labor and fuel costs.
2.22   RFFSA's financial performance shows substantial cross-regional variation, which can be largely
explained by the regional differences in the volume of traffic and track productivity. By most estimates,
SR3 is the system's only profitable region. In SR2 and SR5, the railroad is breaking approximately even,
while in the remaining regions it experiences operating deficits. SRI has the largest shortfall between
operating revenues and expenditures, followed by SR7 and SR8. The proposed operational restructuring,
staff retrenchment, and emergency rehabilitation programs have been designed to make the proposed
concessions financially viable (Annex 9).
2.23   Since RFFSA has not generated sufficient revenues to meet its payment obligations, RFFSA has
been accumulating payment arrears which have been growing rapidly. RFFSA's debt, which amounted
to almost US$3.0 billion by the end of December 1995, consists essentially of rapidly increasing short
term liabilities to Government entities such as the social security administration (US$1.9 billion including
interest and monetary correction), financial institutions (US$400 million), contractors (US$200 million),
and to the staff pension fund (US$300 million). Long-term debts are only about US$200 million. A
number of legal actions by creditors or labor are still pending, which could result in further liabilities.
RFFSA's assets total about US$16 billion equivalent in accounting terms. RFFSA's non-operational



- 13 -
assets are estimated at about US$1.0 billion in market value, but most cannot be sold in the short term
due to past judicial decisions on legal actions by creditors.
2.24   RFFSA's revenues from the leasing of operational assets and from any sale or lease of non-rail
assets are expected to be used to repay as much as possible RFFSA's debts, and as a guarantee against
possible new labor and environmental liabilities. However, no decision has yet been made by the
Government regarding the treatment of RFFSA's debts, or the financing of the residual public service
obligations in the Northeast, which could be funded either from RFFSA's revenues, by the National
Treasury (against revenues from the sale of the railway concessions), and/or by state and local
governments. The Government is preparing to develop a plan, based on the results of the first auctions,
for the settlement of RFFSA's debts and labor and environmental liabilities, and for financing residual
public service obligations in the Northeast (para. 3.14).
111. TIHE PROJECT
A. Project Origin, Objectives and Rationale
3.01   Project Origin.  The Government decided in 1992 to restructure and privatize RFFSA's
operations in order to stop the deteriorating trend in RFFSA's performance and to improve the efficiency
of rail transport. BNDES prepared and the National Destatization Council (CND) recently approved the
restructuring and privatization plan. The plan basically consists of restructuring RFFSA's operations into
six regional systems and of transferring operation and maintenance responsibilities to private
concessionaires who would lease the necessary assets from RFFSA. The Bank has assisted through policy
dialogue and the preparation of a comprehensive analysis of Brazil's railway industry and of alternative
public policy options (Report No.  1752-BR, The Brazilian Railroad Industry: Options for Organizational
Restructuring. February 15, 1994). The proposed proiect was designed to assist the Government and
RFFSA in effectively implementing the plan.
3.02   Project Objectives. The project aims to reduce the cost of freight transport in Brazil's main
corridors by restructuring and privatizing the federal railways. Specific objectives would be to:
(a) improve performance by restructuring and concessioning RFFSA's operations to private
operators, and by restructuring its finances to settle debts and labor liabilities;
(b) increase productivity through staff retrenchment and emergency rehabilitation of critical assets
in order to make the proposed concessions viable, while minimizing the social cost of staff
retrenchment;
(c) enhance competition through regulatory reform, with a view to increase the railways' market
share and reduce freight transport rates.
Achievement of these objectives would be measured and monitored during implementation through a set
of key indicators (para. 4.12 and Annex 11, Table 2).
3.03   Rationale for Bank Involvement. The Bank's country assistance strategy for Brazil, discussed
by the Board of Executive Directors on June 29, 1995, identifies human capital formation and
infrastructure development as the principal bottlenecks to Brazil's social and economic development. The



- 14 -
emphasis is on structural reforms aimed at stabilization and resumption of broad-based growth, including
the deregulation and privatization of infrastructure services, and on rebuilding and expanding a
deteriorated and insufficient infrastructure in partnership with the private sector. The proposed project
is fully supportive of this assistance strategy. By helping to deregulate and privatize the federal railway
operations, the project, in addition to reducing the financial burden on public sector finances, would
substantially increase the efficiency of rail and intermodal transport in the country's important corridors,
and thereby contribute to economic stabilization, resumption of growth in agriculture and industry, and
increased export competitiveness.
B. Project Description
3.04   The project, a specific investment operation, would consist of the following six components:
(a) Operations Restructuring and Concessioning Component (ORC) (1 % of total project cost),
including the division of the railway into six regional operations, establishment of interchange
traffic arrangements and trackage rights, preparation of bidding documents, negotiation of
concession and lease contracts, transfer of rail assets to concessionaires, closure of RFFSA's
operational divisions, and the organization and strengthening of RFFSA's technical supervision
units;
(b) Staff Retrenchment Program (SRP) (56% of total project cost), including appropriate incentive
schemes for early retirement, voluntary separation, severance payment schemes for remaining
redundant staff, retraining programs and outplacement assistance, aiming to reduce RFFSA staff
by about 18,000, in addition to 4,000 staff that already retired, in order to increase staff
productivity while minimizing the social costs of staff retrenchment;
(c) Emergency Rehabilitation Program (ERP) (41 % of total project cost), consisting of the
emergency rehabilitation, repairs and maintenance of locomotives, wagons and critical sections
of track which are necessary to avoid further deterioration and traffic losses during the
restructuring and concessioning process;
(d) Environmental Management Component (EMC) (less than 1 % of total project cost), including
environmental audits of railway facilities and strengthening of RFFSA's environmental
management and safety unit;
(e) Regulatory Reform Component (RRC) (less than 1 % of total project cost), including the
development, monitoring and evaluation of railway regulations, strengthening of the railway
regulatory and supervisory agency (MT/DTF), and establishment of a dispute settlement
commission (COFER); and
(f) Financial Restructuring and Settlement Component (FRS) (1.5% of total project cost),
including establishment of a Settlement Division (SD) within RFFSA and contracting of a Real
Estate Manager (REM) to manage and sell non-rail assets in order to settle debts and labor
liabilities.
3.05   Operations Restructuring and Concessioning (ORC). The proposed six regional concessions
would result from a consolidation of RFFSA's 12 existing Regional Superintendencies. The Sudeste,
which carries over 50% of RFFSA's traffic on only 8% of its track length, essentially iron ore and steel
products, has consistently been profitable. The Centro-Leste and the Sul have a well diversified traffic



- 15 -
base, in particular petroleum, agricultural and steel products, and construction materials, and RFFSA's
analyses show strong profitable markets for both concessions. The Oeste also has a strong growth
potential with agricultural products and fuels. The Tubarao is a single customer (Eletrosul) coal carrier
railway. The Nordeste has by far the lowest traffic density and productivity; although it might be
possible to operate it profitably in the long term, in the short term the Government (and possibly state
and local governments) is likely to have to pay subsidies to ensure adequate services at affordable prices.
In this case, appropriate mechanisms would be established to specify the concessionaire's public service
obligations and to ensure reliable funding.  Traffic between these regional systems is currently
insignificant. However, appropriate operating arrangements would be established to facilitate existing
and potential traffic between the Sul and Oeste systems and FEPASA, and between Centro-Leste and
CVRD's Vitoria - Minas railway. An Association of Brazilian Railways would be established to promote
the operational integration of the systems (Annex 3).
3.06   RFFSA's operational and operational support divisions would be closed when operation and
maintenance responsibilities and rail assets are transferred to the concessionaires. The remaining part of
RFFSA would be reorganized to effectively carry out its future and transitory responsibilities. A new
Technical Division (TD), with regional units for the four main concessions (Centro-leste, Sul, Sudeste,
Nordeste) would be established to supervise rail asset leases, operational safety and, by delegation from
MT/DTF, the technical and the environmental aspects of the concession contracts. The TD would also
be responsible to supervise any residual public service obligations in the Northeast region (Annex 3).
Agreement was reached with RFFSA and/or the Government during loan negotiations on: (a) RFFSA to
restructure its operations, separate rail and non-rail assets, lease its rail assets to eventual concessionaires,
close its operational divisions and organize its technical supervision divisions; (b) the Government to
present a plan for the concessioning of the Nordeste operation to the Bank for comments by June 30,
1997; (c) the Government, through CND and BNDES, to prepare and publish concession bidding
documents, pre-qualify bidders, and to auction concessions; and (d) the Government, through MT, to
contract concessions to successful bidders, if any, and to transfer operation and maintenance
responsibilities to concessionaires, all in accordance with the terms, timetable, indicators and targets of
the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) (para. 4.05 (a) and Annex 11).
3.07   Staff Retrenchment Program (SRP). The objectives of the SRP are to reduce RFFSA staff by
about 18,000 over three years, in addition to the 4,000 employees who retired in 1995, to increase staff
productivity through retraining and outplacement assistance, and to minimize the social cost of adjustment
through appropriate severance payments. RFFSA has developed staffing plans for the six regional
systems, based on redefined operational procedures and consolidated responsibilities, identified the
number of redundant staff by job categories, and analyzed redundant staff profiles against labor market
characteristics in the various regions. The SRP was developed on the basis of these analyses, and the
various parameters have been tested and optimized through an economic analysis (Annexes 4 and 10).
In addition to legally-required severance payments which, as an average, correspond to 10 months of
salary, the SRP would include incentives for early retirement and voluntary separation, involuntary
separation grants for remaining redundant staff, re-training programs based on regional employment
opportunities, and job searching and outplacement assistance.
3.08   The SRP would be implemented in two phases in each region: (a) in the first phase, prior to
concessioning, RFFSA would first implement the incentive schemes for early retirement and voluntary
separation, which would be offered only to certain categories of redundant staff and within pre-determined
limits. Depending on the results of the voluntary schemes, RFFSA would then lay off redundant staff
selectively, taking into account employee performance, and pay an involuntary separation grant; (b) in
the second phase, after the auction, RFFSA would pay an involuntary separation grant of the same
amount as in the first phase to remaining redundant staff who would not be hired by the concessionaire,



- 16 -
up to a maximum number of staff specified in the concession bidding documents. Compensation packages
for additional layoffs beyond the specified number would be the concessionaire's responsibility.
3.09   The voluntary separation incentive would be based on the time of employment as per Table 5,
Annex 4. It would range from 4 to 12 months of salary. The involuntary separation grant would be
equivalent to 80% of the incentive. The proposed severance payments reflect the importance of the
Government's social concerns. The packages would also include targeted re-training, which would be
contracted out to specialized training institutions such as SENAC, SENAI and SEBRAE, and re-
employment assistance which would be contracted out to a specialized outplacement firm. Beneficiaries
who would not participate in the training programs would have their separation grants reduced by one
month of salary. On the basis of the preliminary results of the incentive schemes, it is estimated that
about 10,000 staff would apply for the incentives, and that the remaining 8,000 redundant staff would
receive involuntary separation grants. RFFSA's average monthly gross salary being about US$890
equivalent, the total cost of the severance payments is estimated at US$380 million equivalent. The cost
of the re-training and outplacement assistance is estimated at about US$15 million equivalent. During
loan negotiations, agreement was reached with RFFSA and the Government on: (a) the terms and
conditions of the voluntary and involuntary separation packages, and the terms of reference of the training
and outplacement assistance (Annex 4); (b) RFFSA not to re-employ program beneficiaries; and (c)
RFFSA to implement the SRP in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions of the SRP, and with
the timetable, indicators and targets of the PIP (para. 4.05 (b) and Annex 11).
3.10   Emergency Rehabilitation Program  (ERP).  The objectives of the ERP are to carry out
emergency repairs and maintenance of locomotives, wagons, tracks and other facilities which are
necessary to allow for continued and safe operations during the restructuring and concessioning process.
The proposed investments would avoid further traffic and revenue losses by RFFSA and, subsequently,
by the concessionaires, until the latter can carry out the necessary rehabilitation programs. The ERP
would include the following components: (a) emergency repairs and/or rehabilitation of about 240
locomotives to reduce failures (US$110 million equivalent); (b) replacement of locomotive and wagon
wheels to reduce derailments and wagon conversions (US$16.5 million); (c) emergency repairs of critical
sections of tracks to maintain safe operations and reduce derailments (US$23.0 million); and (d) small
investments in signaling and telecommunication systems and workshops to permit the planned reductions
of manpower (about US$18.5 million equivalent). The design and specifications of the proposed
investments, and their justification, which shows high financial and economic returns, are presented in
Annex 5. The investments would be implemented through turnkey-type contracts with private specialized
firms. The procurement plan and the bidding documents have been completed by RFFSA, and were
reviewed by the appraisal mission and found satisfactory. During loan negotiations, agreement was
reached with RFFSA and the Government on: (a) the description and scope of the ERP; and (b) the ERP
implementation timetable, indicators and targets included in the PIP (para. 4.05 (c) and Annex 11).
3.11   Enviromnental Management Component (EMC). The objectives of the EMC are to identify
and specify responsibilities for the environmental liabilities associated with rail assets to be transferred
to concessionaires, and to strengthen RFFSA's capabilities to supervise the environmental surveys as well
as the environmental and safety conditions of the concession contracts. RFFSA would be responsible for
existing environmental liabilities at the time of concessioning, and for those which cannot be attributed
to the concessionaires. The EMC would include: (a) environmental surveys and audits of facilities at
potential pollution sites, including workshops, fueling stations and sleeper treatment plants, to review the
adequacy of facilities and equipment, identify possible diesel, oil or polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) spills,
define corrective measures and estimate associated costs; and (b) technical assistance and training of staff
to strengthen RFFSA's environmental management and safety unit (Annex 6). Agreement was reached
with RFFSA and the Government during loan negotiations on: (a) the strengthening of the environmental



- 17 -
management and safety unit through technical assistance and training of staff responsible for the
supervision of the surveys and, through delegation from DTF, of the environmental and safety conditions
of the concession contracts; and (b) the description and scope of the EMC, including the carrying out of
environmental surveys prior to signing the respective concession contracts, in accordance with the
implementation timetable, indicators and targets included in the PIP (para. 4.05 (d) and Annex 1 1).
3.12   Regulatory Reform Component (RRC). Railway economic regulations are being developed to:
(i) allow the concessionaires maximum freedom to set tariffs on services which face competition,
including differentiating them to account for individual shippers' needs, and entering into confidential
contracts with shippers; (ii) limit the role of the Government to regulate the tariffs for captive shippers,
over whom the concessionaire has monopoly power, by the stand-alone costs of the shipper's service;
(iii) authorize abandonment of lines or services which are shown to be financially not viable; and
(iv) facilitate inter-concession traffic (Annex 7). The concession contracts would reflect the specific
regulatory requirements of each concession and their different market and service characteristics.
Presidential Decree No. 1832, enacted on March 4, 1996, revised the 1985 rail transport regulation.
Because the Concession Law requires setting up maximum tariffs for concessions awarded on the basis
of the highest bid price, concession contracts would include such maximum tariff tables, which would
be updated for inflation in accordance with the Government's price controls imposed through the Plano
Real law, and which, in practice, would not constrain the concessionaires' freedom. Agreement was
reached during loan negotiations that the Government, through MT, will: (a) by December 31, 1996,
present to the Bank for comments a preliminary report on the results of a joint review, with other relevant
Ministries, of the above-mentioned legislation, taking into account the experience with the existing
railway concessions; (b) after taking into account the comments of the Bank, submit a final report to the
relevant authorities; and (c) develop appropriate mechanisms, criteria and guidelines to implement the
captive shipper rate and the line abandonment regulations prior to concessioning the Sudeste and the
Nordeste systems respectively. The project would include technical assistance and training of MT staff
to help develop, implement, and monitor the regulations.
3.13   The Transport Ministry's Department of Rail Transport (DTF) would be strengthened to
effectively implement the revised regulation and to supervise the concession contracts, with the exception
of the technical, environmental and safety-related aspects of such supervision, which would be delegated
to RFFSA. An independent Rail Transport Commission (COFER), including representatives from the
concessionaires, the shippers, and from the Government, would be established to resolve disputes between
the concessionaires, the shippers, and/or the Government. The establishment of COFER was approved
by the President through a temporary executive measure (Medida Provisoria No. 1342) dated March 12,
1996. Agreement was reached during loan negotiations that the Government will strengthen DTF and
establish COFER by December 31, 1996 (para 4.05 (e)).
3.14   Financial Restructuring and Settlement (FRS).  RFFSA's revenues from  the lease of
operational assets and from the sale or lease of non-rail assets would be used to repay part of RFFSA's
debts, and as a guarantee against possible new labor and environmental liabilities. The financing of the
residual public service obligations in the Northeast would be funded from RFFSA's revenues, by the
National Treasury from the revenues from the sale of the railway concessions, and/or by state and local
governments. Some debts, including the debt to the National Social Security Institute (INSS), which led
to the judicial decisions which hamper RFFSA to sell most of its non-rail assets, would have to be
rescheduled. The Government is developing a plan to restructure and to settle RFFSA's debts. The plan,
however, cannot be finalized until the first auctions are completed and until the plan for non-rail assets
is finalized (para. 3.19). In the short term, RFFSA would establish a Settlement Division (SD), with
appropriate terms of reference, which will be responsible for managing debts and labor liabilities, and
for managing and selling the non-rail assets, under contract with a specialized Real Estate Management



- 18 -
firm (REM). RFFSA's reorganization plan is shown in Chart 2, Annex 11. The Head of the SD would
be accountable to meet the agreed asset sale and debt reduction targets, and a portion of the REM's
remuneration would be subject to meeting such targets. The project would include funds for the REM
contract and for the purchase of computer hardware and software. Agreement was reached with RFFSA
and the Government during loan negotiations on: (a) RFFSA to establish a Settlement Division (SD) and
to contract a Real Estate Manager (REM), both with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; (b) the
Government to take a decision by December 31, 1996, to settle RFFSA's debt with the INSS so as to
enable RFFSA to sell its non-rail assets; (c) the Government to present a plan for RFFSA's financial
restructuring and debt settlement, including a revised financial projection incorporating payments of the
rescheduled debts and projected revenues from concessions and asset sales, by June 30, 1997, and
thereafter implement it, taking into account the comments of the Bank (Annex 8); (d) outline terms of
reference for the REM contract (Annex 8); and (e) the FRS implementation timetable, indicators and
targets, including asset sale and debt reduction targets, included in the PIP (para. 4.05 (f) and Annex 11).
It would be a condition of loan effectiveness that RFFSA has established the Settlement Division with
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
3.15   Project Management.  In order to effectively coordinate the implementation of the project,
RFFSA would restructure and strengthen its Project Management Unit (PMU), which has effectively
coordinated project preparation, contract a project management consultant, and finalize its Computerized
Project Management System (CPMS) (para. 4.04).
C. Project Cost and Financing
3.16   The total cost of the project is estimated at
US$700 million  equivalent, including  US$380            Table 3.1: Estinated Project Costs and Financing
million for severance payments, US$15 million for                  (US$ million equivalent)
re-training and outplacenient assistance, US$230       Component Costs       Local  Foreign   Total
mnillion  for supply  and  installation of goods,
US$65 million for civil works, and about US$10         SeverancePayments      380        -    380
million  for studies, technical assistance, and        Retraining & Outplact.  10        5     15
training of railway staff.  The foreign exchange       Goods & Installation    50      155   205
cost component is estimated at about US$200            Civil Works             38       17    55
million, or 29%, and the tax component at about
US$105 million, or 15%. The total project cost         Surveys& Studies         3        1      4
includes physical contingencies for US$26 million      Tech.Assist.& Training   4        2      6
or about 10% of base cost of physical investments,     Total Base Cost        485      180   665
and price contingencies for US$9 million (or about
4%  of base cost of physical investments plus          Physical Conting.       10       16    26
physical contingencies), estimated on the basis of     Price Conting.           5        4      9
the disbursement schedule and of a 2.4%  average       Total Cost             500      200    700
annual price increase for both local and foreign
expenditures expressed  in US  dollars.   Cost         Financinp Plan      Gov/RF     Bank   Total
estimates  for  severance  pay  are  based  on         Total Financing        350      350    700
retrenchment program conditions and average
salaries by staff categories. Cost estimates for supply and installation of goods are based on unit prices
of recent comparable contracts, and those for civil works are based on average per-kilometer costs
supported by engineering estimates and recent contract prices. Cost estimates for consultant services are
based on prevailing local and foreign man-month rates, and those for training are based on unit prices



- 19 -
of contracts which have already been awarded. Project cost estimates are detailed in Table 1, Annex 11,
and are summarized in Table 3.1 herewith.
3.17   The project would be financed from the proposed Bank loan of US$350 million (50% of project
cost) and from RFFSA and Federal Government counterpart funds (US$350 million or 50%). The
project financing plan is shown in Table 1, Annex 11, and is summarized in Table 3.1 above. The Bank
loan would be disbursed against: (a) severance payments at the rate of 50% of total payments (US$170
million); (b) supply and installation of goods at the rate of 80% of total expenditures (US$106 million);
(c) supply of goods at the rate of 100% of foreign or local (ex-factory cost) expenditures and 85% of
other local expenditures (US$20 million); (d) civil works at the rate of 80% of total expenditures
(US$34 million); and (e) training, outplacement, and technical assistance contracts at the rate of 100%
of total expenditures (US$20 million). RFFSA would fund 100% specific locomotive and track repair
and maintenance subprojects from advance payments from shippers (about US$80 million equivalent),
and contribute to counterpart funding for project components partly financed by the Bank. Agreement
was reached during loan negotiations on: (a) Borrower guarantee of counterpart funds; and (b) in order
to enable the Government and RFFSA to keep project implementation on the schedule agreed at appraisal
in spite of the delays in loan negotiations, retroactive financing, in an amount not exceeding US$70
million equivalent (20 % of the loan amount), for severance payments, goods and services, and consultant
and training expenditures incurred not earlier than twelve months before the date of the loan agreement.
D. Financial Analysis
3.18  In order to determine a minimum price for each concession, BNDES has been preparing detailed
financial forecasts, which will be incorporated into the concessions' bidding documents. In the meantime,
RFFSA has prepared traffic and financial forecasts and a preliminary assessment of the financial viability
of each concession. RFFSA's forecasts, which are presented in Annex 9, show that, under conservative
estimates of traffic and revenues, all concessions except the Nordeste would be financially viable. The
Oeste concession, which has a strong growth potential with grain exports and petroleum products, and
with its connection with the recently concessionned Oriental railway in Bolivia, could rapidly become
increasingly profitable. The Centro-Leste concession, which has a well diversified but relatively short
haul traffic, would become gradually profitable after the planned staff reductions and locomotive repairs,
despite losses of petroleum traffic to a new pipeline. The Sudeste concession, which carries over 50%
of RFFSA's traffic, including the bulk of iron ore, will continue to be highly profitable. The Sul
concession, which has a substantial agricultural export traffic and a strong growth potential with the
increasing trade between Brazil and Argentina, would also rapidly become profitable. The Tubarao
concession, a short haul, coal carrier railway serving a power plant, will depend on the position of the
single shipper. The Nordeste concession, which by far has the lowest traffic density, will not likely
become profitable in the short term, although a private operator might be able to turn it marginally
profitable with stringent cost controls and imaginative marketing. The Government might therefore have
to pay subsidies to ensure adequate service levels and quality at affordable prices and therefore select the
concessionaire on the basis of the lowest subsidy required.
3.19   RFFSA management has prepared tentative financial projections for the residual RFFSA. The
Operations Division (OD), which would be phased out over 1996-97, is expected to break even in 1997,
after the substantial staff reductions planned for 1996. The Technical Division (TD) would generate a
net income from the leasing of the rail assets to concessionaires after deduction of its expenses for
supervising rail assets and the concessionaires' operations. The Settlement Division (SD) would generate
a net income from the sale of non-rail assets after deduction of real estate management and transaction
expenses. The net income from the TD and the SD would be used to service and to settle part of



- 20 -
RFFSA's debts, and as a guarantee against possible future liabilities. The tentative projection shows that
RFFSA could service its restructured debt and repay up to US$700 million equivalent of principal during
the period 1996-2000 (Annex 9, Table 7).  The projection, however, is based on a number of
assumptions, in particular regarding the concession lease prices which will be obtained at the auctions,
the revenues from the sale of non-rail assets, and the new terms of the debts to be rescheduled. It will
therefore have to be revised to take into account the results of the first auctions and the actual terms of
the rescheduled debts. The Government's plan for RFFSA's financial restructuring and debt settlement,
which would be sent to the Bank for comments, would include a revised financial projection
(para. 4.05 (f)).
E. Environmental and Economic Assessments
3.20   Environmental Analysis. Brazil has adequate environmental legislation and regulations, and MT
has adopted specific Environmental Guidelines for the transport sector, including railways, which were
reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank. Railway operators will be required, under concession
contracts, to comply with the environmental regulations for all their operations and investments. MT's
Rail Transport Department (DTF) would delegate to RFFSA responsibility for ensuring operators'
compliance with the regulations. Regarding possible environmental liabilities, the project would include
environmental surveys of the potential pollution sites, and the concession contracts would specify the
respective responsibilities of RFFSA and the concessionaires, including RFFSA's responsibilities for any
existing environmental liabilities at the time of concessioning, or which cannot be attributed to the
concessionaires. The project is classified in the environmental category B, since the possible adverse
environmental effects of locomotive, wagon and track repairs can be prevented or mitigated through
appropriate measures.  In particular, all contractors will be obligated, through appropriate clauses
incorporated in contracts, to comply with the environmental regulations, and payments to contractors will
be subject to their full compliance with such clauses. RFFSA would carry out appropriate supervision
of the contracts, including environmental-related clauses. RFFSA would strengthen its environmental
management and safety unit and the project would include training of RFFSA staff for this purpose.
3.21   Project Benefits.  The project, by enabling more efficient, privately operated railway and
intermodal transport services, would result in an increase of the railways' traffic from about 35 billion
ton-km in 1996 to about 53 billion ton-km in 2000, and in a 20 percent reduction in freight transport
costs in Brazil's main corridors. It would thereby contribute to economic growth in agriculture, industry
and exports. It would also indirectly help relieve congestion on important highways. The direct benefits
of the staff retrenchment program (SRP) would be the net increases in the marginal productivity of
redundant staff who are redeployed from RFFSA to another productive activity, and the marginal gain
from the avoided labor related costs. The direct benefits of the emergency rehabilitation program (ERP)
would be the avoided costs of locomotive failures and train derailments, and the avoided incremental costs
of transport of freight which would otherwise, without the ERP, be using trucks. The quantifiable
economic benefits of the overall project would be thie transport cost savings on existing rail traffic and
on traffic which would otherwise, without the project, be using trucks. The fiscal implications of the
project are also expected to be very positive. RFFSA's operational deficit, about US$250 million
equivalent as an average over the past seven years, is expected to be gradually reduced and eliminated
after the staff retrenchment program and the concessioning process are completed. RFFSA's expected
revenues from rail asset leases and from non-rail asset sales could be sufficient to service and to repay
a portion of its restructured debt over the project's implementation period. The details of the economic
analyses of the SRP, the ERP, and of the overall project are presented in Annex 10.



- 21 -
3.22   Economiic Analysis of the Staff Retrenchment Program. The economic costs of the SRP,
essentially severance pay and training and outplacement costs, were compared with the economic benefits
estimated as the marginal productivity of redundant staff re-employed in another activity. A detailed
analysis of the labor markets in the various regions was carried out to assess re-employment opportunities
and probabilities and to design the re-training and outplacement programs (Annex 4, section B). Labor
market data show that the average duration of unemployment is about seven months in most regions,
except in the Northeast where it is about 14 months. A conservative estimate of the probability for an
average worker of finding a job within one year is about 80 percent in all regions, except in the Northeast
where it is about 64 percent. However, those workers who cannot find a job at their previous wage are
likely to accept a wage cut rather than stay unemployed. Therefore, the probability that all redundant
staff will be re-employed within one year is actually close to 100 percent in all regions; some redundant
staff would have to accept average pay cuts of less than 10 percent in most regions, except in the
Northeast where they would have to accept pay cuts of up to 30 percent. On the basis of the most
conservative assumptions, the Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) of the SRP is estimated at 40
percent overall, the IERRs for the various concessions ranging from 19 percent for the Nordeste to over
50 percent for the Sudeste and at RFFSA's headquarters. If workers had to accept a further 10 percent
wage cut beyond the conservative base case estimates, the IERR of the SRP would still be 36 percent.
If, on the other hand, it is assumed that, with the proposed re-training and outplacement assistance, all
redundant staff would be re-employed within one year, the IERR of the SRP would reach 50 percent.
Therefore, the SRP as designed has a very satisfactory economic justification. The methodology and the
results of the economic evaluation of the SRP are presented in Annex 10, Section B.
3.23   Economic Analysis of the Emergency Rehabilitation Program. The economic benefits of
locomotive rehabilitation were estimated as the avoided costs of locomotive failures and the avoided
incremental costs of transport of freight which would otherwise, without the program, be diverted to
trucks. The IERR of the locomotive rehabilitation component is estimated at 43 percent in the base case;
the estimated IERR would be reduced to 40 percent if benefits were 20 percent lower than expected, and
to 27 percent if rehabilitation costs were 20 percent higher than expected. The economic benefits of
locomotive and wagon wheel replacements were estimated as the avoided costs of train derailments. The
IERR of the wheel replacement component is estimated at 19 percent in the base case; it would be
reduced to 13 percent if benefits were 20 percent lower than expected and to 14 percent if costs were 20
percent higher than expected. The economic benefits of the wagon conversion component, which would
enable RFFSA to capture a highly profitable traffic of manufactured products generated between Brazil
and Argentina, were estimated as the transport costs savings of shifting from truck to rail transport. The
IERR of the wagon conversion component is estimated at 60 percent in the base case, at 48 percent if
benefits were 20 percent lower than expected and at 50 percent if conversion costs were 20 percent higher
than expected. The economic benefits of track repairs were estimated as the avoided incremental costs
of train operation due to slow orders and the avoided costs of derailments. The IERR of the track repair
component is estimated at 19 percent in the base case; at 13 percent if benefits were 20 percent lower
than expected, and at 14 percent if costs were 20 percent higher than expected. No rates of return were
calculated for the systems and workshop consolidation components, which are relatively small investments
necessary to allow for the planned reductions of staff and sales of real estate. Combining the above
analyses, which include 87 percent of the total ERP investments, excluding deferred maintenance funded
by RFFSA, the estimated IERR for the ERP overall is 36 percent in the base case. The estimated IERR
would fall to 31 percent if benefits were 20 percent lower than expected, and to 22 percent if investment
costs were 20 percent higher than expected, which is still very satisfactory. The methodology and the
results of the economic evaluation of the ERP are presented in Annex 10, Section C.
3.24   Economic Analysis of the Project. The economic benefits of the overall project, including the
restructuring and concessioning of RFFSA operations and the regulatory reform, in addition to the SRP



- 22 -
and the ERP, were estimated as: (a) the transport cost savings on existing rail traffic to result from the
improved performance of privately-operated railways; and (b) the transport cost savings on the freight
traffic which, without the project, would be using trucks, calculated as the difference between the long
run marginal costs of railways and trucks. Project economic costs and benefits were calculated for the
entire project as well as for each concession separately. The methodology and the results of the economic
analyses of the overall project are presented in Annex 10, Section D. The IERR for the project overall
is estimated at 68 percent in the base case, and its net present value (NPV) ranges between US$1.9 billion
and US$2.7 billion equivalent for discount rates ranging from 15 percent to 10 percent. The IERRs for
the concessions range from 20 percent for the Nordeste to over 100 percent for the Sudeste and Oeste
concessions. The IERR for the project overall would be reduced to 45 percent if the demand for
transport and/or the benefits were 20 percent lower than expected, and to 50 percent if costs were 20
percent higher than expected, which is still very satisfactory.
F. Project Risks
3.25   The project would be subject to four types of risks. First, Brazil's first large-scale privatization
of a public service could bring a number of unexpected implementation problems, including legal
challenges, which could derail the proposed sequential concessioning process. Vested interests may
attempt to stop, delay or re-direct the process, and Government bureaucracy may not cooperate fully.
A future Government could even revoke the proposed railway concessions, rehire retrenched railway
staff, and/or oppose the sale of non-rail assets. The commitment of the Government, the assignment of
concessioning responsibilities to the National Destatization Council and to BNDES, the proposed labor
separation incentive schemes, and the project implementation, monitoring and supervision plans mitigate
such risks, which are taken into account in the conservative implementation timetable. The successful
auction of the Oeste concession provides additional assurances that the process is now firmly established.
Second, some concessions which will be brought to auction might not find a buyer. Private investors
have shown a strong interest in, and are preparing to bid for the the Centro-Leste, Sudeste and Sul
concessions. The sole customer of the Tubarao line might have to take an interest in the concession and
either operate it directly or under contract. Although the Government would be committed to present a
plan for the Nordeste concession to the Bank for comments, there is a real risk that this concession would
not find a buyer. In this event, the railway might have to be operated under a management contract,
which would nevertheless represent an improvement over the current public operation.
3.26   Third, the emergency rehabilitation program could suffer from implementation delays, and/or the
concessioning process could be accelerated, and some rehabilitation and maintenance works might not
be needed or could be implemented by the concessionaires. The scope of the emergency rehabilitation
program might therefore need adjustment during project implementation. Fourth, Brazil's institutions
and private companies are not familiar with the proposed form of economic regulation and unexpected
problems could lead to some form of restrictive regulations in such areas as pricing, competitive access
or line abandonment. Enacting the new regulation for railways prior to concessioning, strengthening DTF
and establishing the COFER, including the proposed training programs for MT/DTF and RFFSA staff
and COFER members, are expected to help preserve competition and protect consumers' rights. Overall,
the project carries real risks, but it also provides an exceptional opportunity to effectively reform Brazil's
federal railways.



- 23 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Institutional Responsibilities
4.01   The Government of Brazil (GOB), the Borrower, would transfer the proceeds of the loan to the
Federal Railways (RFFSA) on a non-reimbursable basis. GOB under the Loan Agreement (LA) and
RFFSA under the Project Agreement (PA) would be committed to implement the above project
components in accordance with institutional responsibilities (section A), organizational arrangements
(section B), the project implementation plan (section C), procurement arrangements (section D), and
disbursement, accounting and auditing arrangements (section E) included in the Project Implementation
Plan (PIP). The Bank would monitor and supervise project implementation in accordance with the project
monitoring and supervision plan (section F).
4.02   GOB would be responsible for implementing: (a) the concessioning component through the
National Destatization Council (CND) and the National Bank for Social and Economic Development
(BNDES); and (b) the regulatory reform component through the Ministry of Transport. RFFSA would
be responsible for implementing (c) the operations restructuring, (d) the staff retrenchment, (e) the
emergency rehabilitation, (f) the environmental management, and (g) the financial restructuring and
settlement components. In particular, GOB, through CND and BNDES, would finalize and issue
concession bid documents, pre-qualify bidders, and auction concessions in accordance with the timetable
included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). GOB, through MT, would enter into contracts with
the concessionaires who would assume the railways' operations, implement the revised railway regulations
and, for this purpose, strengthen MT's Department of Rail Transport (DTF) and establish the Rail
Transport Commission (COFER). RFFSA would in particular: (a) under the operations restructuring
program, restructure operations. separate operational and non-operational assets, lease rail assets. close
its operational divisions, and establish technical supervision units; (b) under the staff retrenchment
program, retrench, indemnify, retrain, and assist redundant staff in finding new employment; (c) uinder
the emergency rehabilitation program, rehabilitate, repair and/or maintain locomotive, rolling stock and
critical sections of tracks; (d) under the environmental management component, survey ground pollution
at workshop and fueling sites, and strengthen its environmental management and safety unit; (e) under
thefinancial restructuring and settlement component, establish a settlement division to sell non-rail assets
and to service and settle its debts.
B. Organizational Arrangements
4.03   BNDES, which is responsible for implementing the Federal Government's privatization program
under the direction of the CND. and has already effectively privatized large steel mills, petrochemical
and other parastatals, has adequate capability within its Privatization Department to auction the railway
concessions. MT would strengthen its Department of Rail Transport to effectively implement its new
regulatory and concession supervision functions, and would establish the Rail Transport Commission
(COFER) to resolve disputes which may arise between shippers, concessionaires and/or the Government,
in accordance with an agreed plan and timetable (Annex 7). Agreement was reached with GOB during
loan negotiations on strengthening DTF and establishing COFER by December 31, 1996.
4.04   RFFSA would restructure its Project Management Unit (PMU), which coordinated project
preparation, to effectively coordinate project implementation. The Project Coordinator would report
directly to the President of RFFSA (Chart 2, Annex 11). The PMU would be reorganized into three
units, responsible for coordinating the staff retrenchment, the emergency rehabilitation, and the



- 24 -
institutional components, respectively, and staffed with a least ten qualified professionals. In addition,
RFFSA's management plans to contract a Project Management consultant (PM) to assist the PMU and
other divisions in managing the implementation of the project. Also, the PMU would complete the
installation of a Computerized Project Management System (CPMS), which was started during project
preparation. RFFSA's Operations Division (DIPRO), which will be gradually phased out, is adequately
staffed to complete the operations restructuring component. The Development and Marketing Division
(DICOD), which would become the Technical Division and implement the emergency rehabilitation
program (ERP), has established and would maintain specific task forces to implement the respective
components of the ERP. The environmental management and safety unit would be strengthened with
eight qualified professionals and moved to the Technical Division. The Administration and Finance
Division (DIAFI), which would implement the staff retrenchment program, has set up and would maintain
adequate central and regional task forces until the program is completed. The proposed Settlement
Division (SD) would be responsible for implementing the asset sale and the debt settlement plans.
Agreement was reached with RFFSA during loan negotiations on the above organizational arrangements
for project implementation including: (a) the contracting of the Project Management consultant and the
completion of the installation of the CPMS not later than 90 days after the date of the project agreement;
(b) the terms of reference for the Project Management consultant; and, as conditions of loan effectiveness:
(c) the restructuring of the PMU with staff, responsibilities and functions satisfactory to the Bank; and
(d) the establishment of the Settlement Division with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
C. Project Implementation Plan
4.05   The Governmnent of Brazil and RFFSA would be committed, under the Loan and Project
Agreements, to carrying out the project in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan (PIP), which
is presented in Annex 11. The main conditions of the PIP, which are summarized below, were confirmed
during loan negotiations.
(a)  Operations Restructuring and Concessioning Component (ORC)
(i)   RFFSA will restructure its operations, separate rail and non rail assets, lease its rail assets to
concessionaires, close its operational divisions, and establish its technical supervision units in
accordance with the time schedule and with the monitoring indicators and targets set forth in the
PIP (Annex 1 1, Chart 1, Table 2);
(ii) GOB, through CND and BNDES, will prepare and publish concession bidding documents, pre-
qualify bidders, and auction and award concessions in accordance with the time schedule and with
the monitoring indicators and targets included in the PIP (Annex 11), and, by June 30, 1997,
present a plan for the concessioning of the Nordeste operation to the Bank for comments, and
thereafter implement it, taking into account the comments of the Bank; and
(iii) if auctions are successfully completed, GOB, through MT, will contract concessions with winning
bidders and transfer operation and maintenance responsibilities to concessionaires in accordance
with the time schedule, monitoring indicators and targets set forth ii the PIP (Annex 11).
(b)  Staff Retrenchment Program (SRP)
(i)   RFFSA will implement the SRP in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions, including
not re-employing program beneficiaries (Annex 4), and with the time schedule included in the
PIP (Annex I 1, Chart 1);



- 25 -
(ii) RFFSA will reduce its staff, retrain its redundant staff and provide outplacement assistance so
as to meet the targets set forth in the PIP (Annex 11, Table 2); and
(iii)  RFFSA will maintain an updated database on the employment status of SRP beneficiaries, and
report on employment status by staff categories under the quarterly reports to the Bank
(item g (ii) hereinafter).
(c)   Emergency Rehabilitation Program (ERP)
(i)   RFFSA will procure goods and services and execute services for the ERP in accordance with the
ERP procurement and execution time schedule included in the PIP (Annex I1, Chart 1 and
Table 3);
(ii)  RFFSA will rehabilitate locomotives, replace locomotive and wagon wheels, replace locomotive
batteries, convert wagons, rehabilitate tracks, improve telecommunication and signaling systems,
and consolidate workshops in accordance with the ERP monitoring indicators and targets set forth
in the PIP (Annex 11, Table 2).
(d)  Enviromnental Management Component (EMC)
(i)   RFFSA will carry out environmental audits of workshops, fueling stations and sleeper treatment
plants, in accordance with the timetable and targets set forth in the PIP (Annex 11);
(ii)  GOB, through CND, BNDES and MT, will specify the concessionaires' and RFFSA's
responsibilities for the environmental liabilities within the concession contracts; and
(iii)  RFFSA, in order to strengthen its environmental management and safety unit, will contract
technical assistance and train its environmental staff in accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank (Annex 6).
(e)   Regulatory Reform Component (RRC)
(i)  by December 31, 1996, GOB, through MT, will present to the Bank for comments a preliminary
report on a review of the Concession Law and the Plano Real Law with respect to rail transport
tariffs, and, after taking into account the Bank's comments, submit a final report to the relevant
authorities;
(ii)  GOB, through MT, will develop appropriate mechanisms, criteria and guidelines to implement
the captive shipper rate and line abandonment regulations prior to concessioning the Sudeste and
the Nordeste systems respectively, present them to the Bank for comments, and thereafter
implement them, taking into account the comments of the Bank; and
(iii)  GOB will, by December 31, 1996, strengthen DTF through training of its staff to effectively
implement the revised rail transport regulations, and establish an independent Rail Transport
Commission (COFER) to resolve disputes between concessionaires, shippers and the Government.
(f)   Financial Restructuring and Settlement Component (FRS)
(i)   RFFSA will establish a Settlement Division, with terms of reference satisfacotry to the Bank, as
a condition of loan effectiveness, and will contract a Real Estate Management (REM) firm on the



- 26 -
basis of terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank to assist with managing and selling non-rail
assets (Annex 8);
(ii)   GOB will: (a) by December 31, 1996, take a decision to settle RFFSA's debt with the INSS so
as to enable RFFSA to sell its non-rail assets; and (b) by June 30, 1997, present to the Bank for
comments a plan for RFFSA's financial restructuring and debt settlement (Annex 8);
(iii)  RFFSA will maintain its staff within the targets set forth in the PIP (Annex 11, Table 2); and
(iv)   RFFSA will generate revenues from rail and non-rail assets and reduce its debts in accordance
with the targets set forth in the PIP (Annex 11, Table 2);
(g)   Project Management
(i)    RFFSA will: (a) as a condition of loan effectiveness, have restructured its Project Management
Unit (PMU) with staff, responsibilities and functions satisfactory to the Bank; (b) not later than
90 days after the date of the project agreement, contract with the Project Manager consultant and
complete the installation of its Computerized Project Management System (CPMS); and
(c) forward quarterly progress reports to the Bank; and
(ii)   GOB and RFFSA will carry out the project in accordance with the PIP (Annex 11), including the
monitoring indicators and targets (Annex 11, Table 2).
D. Procurement Arrangements
4.06  Procurement
arrangements   are                                      Table 4.1: Procurement Method
presented  in  Table  3,                                       (US$ million)
Annex   11   and   are                                    -------Procurement Method-------------
summarized in Table 4. 1
hemmarewiz   in Table 4.1           Project Element        ICB      NCB      Other   n.b.f 1/     Total
herewith.                                                                                  
Separation Grants                         340        40       380
4.07    All goods  and                                                        (170)               (170)
services   (supply   and            Goods & Services       100       35                  70       205
installation), and civil
works   contracts                                          (80)      (26)                         (106)
estimated to cost US$5.0            Goods                   20                                     20
million or more would                                      (20)                                    (20)
be   procured   through
I n t e r n a t i o n a             Civil Works               -      45                  30        75
Competitive   Bidding                                                (34)                          (34)
(ICB)  procedures,  in              Consultants & Training    -                20          -       20
accordance with Bank
Guidelines  and   using                                                        (20)     ___(20)
relevant standard bidding           Total                  120       80       360       140       700
documents issued by the             (Bank financed)       (100)      (60)     (190)        -      (350)
Bank.   Any  modifica-
tions to such documents             1/ not Bank-financed severance pay, locomotive and track repairs and maintenance
which may be necessary              expenditures



- 27 -
would have to be agreed with the Bank. Goods and services, and civil works contracts below US$5.0
million, up to an aggregate amount of US$80 million, would be procured through National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) procedures, based on standard bidding documents which were reviewed by the appraisal
mission and found satisfactory. The value of individual civil works and goods and services contracts is
expected to vary between US$1.0 and US$20.0 million (total cost about US$180 million). Goods,
including locomotive and wagon wheels and locomotive batteries would be purchased through ICB
procedures, in accordance with Bank Guidelines and using relevant standard bidding documents issued
by the Bank. NCB procedures would be used for contracts for goods below US$350,000 and above
US$100,000, and shopping procedures would be used for contracts below US$100,000, in the event that
such contracts are required. Consultants for detailed engineering, construction supervision, technical
assistance and training programs would be selected and engaged following Bank Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants (August 1981) and the standard contract issued by the Bank would be used for complex,
time-based assignments. The cost of these services is expected to aggregate to US$20 million equivalent.
4.08   RFFSA is the principal implementing agency, responsible for carrying out all procurement.
RFFSA's organization for and experience with procurement were reviewed during appraisal and found
satisfactory. The Borrower's procurement law (Law no. 8666 of June 21, 1993) specifically authorizes
executing agencies to procure goods and services financed by multilateral institutions in accordance with
the norms and procedures of the financial institutions. All ICB contracts, the first two NCB contracts
for civil works and for the supply and installation of goods, all contracts with consulting firms estimated
at US$100,000 equivalent or more, and all contracts with individual consultants estimated at US$50,000
or more would be subject to the Bank's prior review of bidding documents. These prior-review
arrangements would cover contracts totaling about 65 % of the total cost of Bank-financed works, goods
and services. The balance of contracts would be subject to selective ex-post review by the Bank after
contract award. Agreement was reached with RFFSA during loan negotiations on the above procurement
arrangements.
E. Disbursements, Accounting and Audit Arrangements
4.09   The Bank would disburse for: (a) severance payments at the rate of 50%; goods and services
(supply and installation contracts) and civil works at the rate of 80% of total expenditures; (c) goods at
the rates of 100% of foreign expenditures and 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost, excluding
taxes), and 85% of other local expenditures; and (d) consultant services and staff training at the rates of
100% of expenditures. The allocation of the proceeds of the loan is shown in Table 4, Annex 11. Based
upon experience with similar projects and the relevant standard disbursement profile for enterprise
restructuring projects, the implementation period for the project is estimated at four years. The project
completion date would therefore be June 30, 2000, and the Closing Date would be December 31, 2000.
The estimated loan disbursement schedule is shown in Table 5, Annex 1 1.
4.10   Disbursements for severance payments would be made against withdrawal applications which
would provide all the necessary information on beneficiaries. including employee identification and staff
number, dates of employment and of separation, latest salary and amount of separation grant paid. These
applications would contain a certification by an independent auditor satisfactory to the Bank that such
payments were made in accordance with the agreed provisions of the Staff retrenchment Program. A
sample of these applications would be reviewed by the Bank prior to disbursement. RFFSA would
maintain an SRP file with all the related documentation, including the employment contract termination
document which provides all the necessary information for the computation of the severance
compensation, and records the employee agreement. The documentation in the files would be periodically
audited by the independent auditor, and would be made available to Bank supervision missions.



- 28 -
4.11   In order to reduce the interval during which the Borrower would finance the Bank's share of
project cost with their own resources, the Borrower would establish a Special Account (SA) in US dollars
in a commercial bank to cover local and foreign currency expenditures of the project. The Bank would
deposit up to US$40.0 million in the SA. The Bank would replenish the Special Account for the amount
of withdrawals on account of eligible expenditures at the request of the Borrower. RFFSA has adequate
accounting control to enable disbursement to be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures.
Supporting documentation with respect to expenditures against contracts valued at up to US$5.0 million
equivalent for supply and installation of goods and civil works, US$350,000 equivalent for goods,
US$100,000 equivalent for consulting firm services, and US$50,000 for individual consultants, would
be retained by RFFSA, be available for inspection by Bank supervision missions, and be subject to
auditing by the independent auditor. Expenditures for contracts above these limits would be documented.
During loan negotiations, agreement was reached with RFFSA and the Government on: (a) the above
disbursement arrangements; and (b) RFFSA to retain an independent auditor, acceptable to the Bank, to
audit their accounts, including the project accounts, financial statements, severance payments, Special
Account and Statements of Expenditures, and to furnish the auditor's reports to the Bank not later than
six months after the end of each fiscal year.
F. Monitoring and Supervision Plan
4.12   The Bank would monitor and supervise the implementation of the project in accordance with the
Monitoring and Supervision Plan presented in Annex 12. The Bank would monitor the implementation
of the project against the times chedule and the monitoring indicators and targets, which are set forth in
the PIP (Chart 1, Table 2, Annex 11). The estimates of Bank monitoring and supervision inputs into key
activities are shown in the Table 1, Annex 12.
4.13   RFFSA is developing and would establish an appropriate Computerized Project Management
System (CPMS) to manage the implementation of the project. The system is designed to produce
adequate information to report to RFFSA management and to the Bank to permit effective monitoring of
project implementation against the agreed monitoring indicators and targets.  During negotiations,
agreement was reached with RFFSA on: (a) the CPMS to be fully installed not later than 90 days after
the date of the project agreement; and (b) quarterly progress reports satisfactory to the Bank, to be sent
not later than one month after the end of each quarter.
4.14   In supervising the implementation of the project, the Bank would in particular review the
following documents: (a) withdrawal applications for severance payments and related documentation, on
a sample basis; (b) procurement documentation for contracts under the ERP and EMC programs, ex-ante
for all ICB-procured and the first two NCB-procured contracts, and ex-post, on a sample basis, for other
NCB-procured contracts; (c) terms of reference, invitation letters, short-lists and draft contracts for
consultant and staff training services, in accordance with the prior-review thresholds set forth in
para 4.08.
4.15   Comprehensive reviews of the implementation of the project would be carried out in the month
of June each year during project implementation, and when 50% of the loan amount allocated to
severance payments has been disbursed. The review would cover all the agreed actions, target dates, and
implementation indicators included in the PIP and the status of compliance with all covenants of the Loan
and Project Agreements. Particular importance would be given to: (a) progress in the restructuring and
concessioning process; (b) staff reductions, re-training and outplacement assistance; (c) progress under
the emergency rehabilitation program and the environmental management component; and (d) progress
under the financial restructuring and settlement program, including achievement of targets for sale of non-



- 29 -
rail assets and reduction of debt. The Government and RFFSA would be committed to implement all the
proposed measures as necessary to ensure the efficient completion of the project and the attainment of
its objectives. The Bank would have the right to exercise appropriate remedies if performance is not
satisfactory.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01   During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government of Brazil (GOB) and RFFSA
on the following:
(a)    RFFSA to restructure its operations and GOB to auction concessions in accordance with
timetable and targets (paras. 3.06, 4.05 (a));
(b)    RFFSA to implement the SRP in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions,
indicators and targets (paras. 3.09, 4.05 (b));
(c)    RFFSA  to implement the ERP in accordance with time schedule and targets
(paras. 3.10, 4.05 (c));
(d)    RFFSA to strengthen its environmental management unit and to implement the EMC in
accordance with time schedule and targets (paras. 3.11, 4.05 (d));
(e)    GOB to develop regulatory mechanisms and guidelines, present draft report on review
of relevant legislation to the Bank, strengthen DTF and to establish COFER in
accordance with timetable (paras. 3.12, 3.13 and 4.05 (e));
(f)    GOB to present plan for RFFSA's financial restruturing and debt settlement, RFFSA to
establish Settlement Division, contract Real Estate Manager, sell non-rail assets and to
settle debts in accordance with time schedule and targets (para. 3.14 and 4.05 (f));
(g)    RFFSA to restructure the PMU, contract Project Manager consultant, and to complete
the installation of the CPMS (paras. 3.15, 4.05 (g));
(h)    Borrower guarantee for counterpart funds, and retroactive financing arrangements
(para. 3.17);
(i)    organizational and management arrangements for project implementation (paras. 4.03 and
4.04);
(j)    project implementation plan (para. 4.05 and Annex 1 1);
(k)    procurement arrangements (paras. 4.06 to 4.08);
(1)    disbursement, accounting and audit arrangements (paras. 4.09 and 4.11); and
(m)   monitoring and reporting arrangements, including implementation targets and mid-term
review of project implementation (paras. 4.12 to 4.15).



- 30 -
5.02   The following would be Conditions of Loan Effectiveness:
(a)    RFFSA to establish a Settlement Division with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 4.05 (f));
(b)    RFFSA to restructure its Project Management Unit with staff, responsibilities and
functions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.05 (g)).
5.03   Recommendation. Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$350 million equivalent to the Federative Republic of Brazil. The terms would be 15 years,
including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate for currency pool loans.



- 31 -                               Annex 1
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Macroeconomic and Structural Reform Background
A. Macroeconomic Framework
1.    Since the beginning of 1994, the authorities have been implementing a stabilization
plan that has been carefully sequenced. The first phase involved a significant tightening of
fiscal policy to obtain a balance in the operational account of the consolidated public sector.
The second phase marked the introduction of a new system of indexation of a co-temporaneous
nature, intended to eliminate inertial components to inflation. The final phase, introduced in
July 1994, saw the introduction of a new currency, the real, linked to the U.S. dollar and the
elimination of indexation. Stabilization policies have been based on a nominal exchange rate
anchor and tight monetary policies. External payments were normalized with a debt and debt
service reduction agreement with commercial banks and with arrangements under the Paris
Club as a part of the stabilization plan.
2.    Inflation has been reduced sharply under the plan from monthly rates of around 40 per
cent in mid-1994 to below 1 per cent currently. The economy has grown at annual rates of
over 4 per cent in the post-stabilization period; initially, the major contribution to growth
arose from a sharp rise in domestic demand associated with a reduced erosion of real incomes
from inflation, rises in real wages and consumer credit expansion, but after bouts of monetary
policy tightening since early 1995, domestic demand has moderated and the external
contribution turned positive.
3.     The fiscal adjustment seen in 1994 was sharply reversed in 1995, when an operational
surplus equivalent to 0.5 per cent of GDP was transformed into a deficit of 5 per cent of GDP.
The underlying deterioration in the fiscal balance is even greater taking account of the strong
cyclical upturn in 1995. The principal causes of the fiscal loosening lie in a steep rise in the
public sector wage bill, as minimum wages and public sector pay were increased markedly in
late 1994 and early 1995, higher social security expenditures (in part related to the rise in
minimum wage), increases in outlays for interest payments on public debt, and strong increases
in expenditures at states and municipalities.
4.     The burden of adjustment has fallen on monetary policies. The authorities have taken
periodic measures to vary reserve requirements, impose tax and other restrictions on credit
operations and capital inflows, and have maintained interest rates at very high rates in real
terms. Real interest rates in monthly terms have ranged at 2 to 3 per cent. The Central Bank
has engaged in sterilization operations on a massive scale in response to capital inflows -- a
development, which together with the need to fund the fiscal deficit, had led to a sharp rise in
public debt to the equivalent of nearly one-third of GDP. A further cause of the rise in the
public debt lies in Central Bank liquidity support given to several public and one private bank
in distress. After an initial period of strong re-monetization of the economy in response to the
fall in inflation, the broad money to GDP ratio has been stable in recent quarters.



- 32 -                               Annex 1
5.     Upon its introduction, the real was allowed to float and traded at around 0.82 to the
U.S. dollar, with an official floor of parity to the dollar. From March 1995, the authorities
adopted an adjustable exchange rate band system to limit the appreciation in real terms and
safeguard the external accounts.  The band has since then been depreciated on several
occasions and currently stands at 0.97 to 1.06 to the dollar. Since its introduction, the real is
estimated to have appreciated by over 25 per cent in real terms, but from an initial position of
a strongly competitive economy. The external current account registered a deficit of US$17.7
billion (2.5 per cent of GDP) in 1995, but with strong capital inflows, gross international
reserves rose by US$12 billion in the course of the year to stand at US$52 billion by year-end.
6.     The success with the stabilization plan to date has been encouraging: inflation has been
sharply reduced, whilst growth has been maintained. Furthermore, the reduction in inflation
has contributed greatly to a rise in real incomes of the poor. It will also lead to an upturn in
savings in the economy that is necessary if growth is to be sustained. At the same time,
reliance on external savings to finance growth has been limited and current account deficits
have been easily financed. The strengthening of confidence in Brazil has led to large capital
inflows and to reserve gains.
7.     Consolidating stabilization in 1996 will require changes in the policy mix in 1996. In
particular, it will be vital to tighten fiscal policy and to limit the growth in public debt. If
these can be achieved, the burden on monetary policy will diminish and real interest rates
could be safely reduced. A stronger fiscal position will, thus, also contribute to some real
depreciation of the currency and to a better balance between the external current and capital
accounts.
8.     Policy adaptations of this type will require strengthening the budget currently before
Congress and also the passage of several key constitutional amendments that will remove
constraints to more efficient management of the public sector. These are discussed below.
B. Structural Reforms
9.     The Cardoso Government has reinitiated the privatization program, slowed and
temporarily halted by the predecessor Franco Government. A law was passed in February
1995, permitting private concessions for electric power distribution and transport of natural
gas. Several Brazilian state governments have launched programs covering the sale of state
equity in electricity distribution, telecommunications and the banking sector. Two large state-
owned banks may have majority equity in private hands by the end of 1996.
10.    The major reforms to come are follow-ups to the ending of state monopolies in
telecommunications, petroleum, the gas sector and coastal shipping which also happened in
1995. In the area of telecommunications, peripheral and value added services are being opened
to competition. The privatization of the network may be delayed awaiting regulatory reform
and the complexity of breaking up the existing structure. There are no plans to privatize
Petrobras but it may collaborate with foreign companies in exploration.
11.   In electric energy, the Government is seeking partners to finish incomplete existing
plants. In electricity distribution minority shares are being sold with the publicly owned



- 33 -                                Annex 1
development bank, BNDES, forming a fund where shares may be deposited by state
governments against future sale.
12.    The Cardoso Government has reform plans in three other areas; social security, fiscal
reform and administrative reform. The social security system is a defined benefit regime,
largely funded by employer and general taxes. It is also biased towards early retirement by
certain categories of workers. This has resulted in a growing mismatch between payments and
benefits. Efforts at comprehensive reform, including a move towards a largely capitalized
system are unlikely to succeed politically at present and the administration's current reform
goal is a more modest one of correcting the bias towards early retirement and removing some
of the legislation from constitutional to infra-constitutional status to be dealt with later.
13.    Administrative reforms would involve allowing layoffs from  the civil service and
setting limits to salaries plus benefits as well as retirement benefits. Currently no confirmed
civil servant can be removed from service and enjoying multiple pensions with no overall limit
on the amount is widespread.
C. State Finance Reform
14.    The decline of inflation and the insolvency of several major state-owned banks in 1995
removed important explicit and implicit sources of financing from the Brazilian states. Their
deficits rose to 2.5 percent of GDP or about 70 percent of the total national deficit in 1995.
They also ran up large floating debts to contractors and private banks.
15.   In order to adjust to the new economic environment the states are considering reform
plans involving downsizing and rationalizing their workforce, debt workouts and privatizations
and concessions. Federal programs have been tailored providing incentives in these directions.
The extent of the program and the degree of commitment to reform varies across states. The
degree of success will depend not only on their own efforts but also on certain national
parameters such as the degree of flexibility that emerges from the civil service reform and the
terms of the debt workout of the state debt which will have to be largely refinanced by the
Federal Government.
16.    Finally, fiscal reform is intended to integrate the federal and state tax systems, remove
the power of granting fiscal incentives from the states and remove the bias against exports and
capital goods investments present in the current value added tax system.
17.    At present the social security bill is ready for presentation to the plenary of the
Congress. The timing and content of the Administrative Reform bill and the fiscal bill are
uncertain since there is likely to be significant opposition in Congress. The state governors are
in favor of administrative reform as it will help them financially but are wary of fiscal reform
which would diminish their power of independent action.



- 34 -                               Annex 1
D. Medium-Term Outlook
18.    The projected GDP growth rates in 1996 and 1997 are 3 percent and 4.5 percent
respectively. While Brazil has achieved much higher rates of growth in the past, the need to
keep aggregate demand under control in order to prevent a resurgence of inflation suggests that
growth will be in this range or even slightly lower in 1996. Gross domestic fixed investment
is expected to rise steadily, financed largely by growing domestic savings.
19.    Current account deficits will be contained to below 2.5 percent of GDP. Trends in
capital flows suggest that deficits of this magnitude can be financed relatively easily.
According to the Government, the consolidated fiscal account (operational basis) will show a
deficit of about 2-2.5 percent of GDP or even slightly higher in 1996 but swing into balance
beyond that. The rate of inflation should gradually decline but will still be in the double digit
range through 1997. This scenario is posited on the Government making the necessary effort
to sustain the Real Plan.
20.    The Government's aim is to reach single digit inflation by 1998, the last year of
President Cardoso's mandate. So far, the record of economic management has been good.
The rate of inflation continues to be low and an overheating of the economy was contained
successfully in 1995. The current account deficit is less than 3 percent of GDP and reserve
levels are high. The economy is less indexed than in the past and inflationary expectations for
1996 are favorable. However, there are risks to the program if the reform agenda in the case
of state reforms and structural changes discussed above are delayed or left incomplete. These
risks are elaborated below.
E. Risks
21.    The biggest risk to the Real Plan comes from the inability of the government so far to
deal on a permanent and satisfactory basis with the causes of fiscal imbalance that have been
fundamental in fueling inflation in the past. In spite of substantial increases in revenue post-
stabilization, the fiscal deficit worsened significantly in 1995. Major changes in federal-state
fiscal relations, earmarking rules for budgetary receipts, the social security system and civil
service rules are needed to give federal and state governments the flexibility to balance their
budgets.   Many  of these  changes  require  Constitutional Amendments  and  further
complementary legislation. Their passage through Congress has been delayed and resisted by
interest groups. The outcome is uncertain since the Congress is split into a large number of
parties with frequent shifts of alliances on specific issues.
22.   In the absence of a fiscal adjustment the government has relied on an interim policy
mix which has resulted in high domestic interest rates, growing internal debt and substantial
short term capital inflows. This can only be sustained if fiscal fundamentals improve. The
risks of the program, therefor, hinge around the rapidity with which a fiscal adjustment can be
effected. The financial sector, which has had to adjust rapidly to a decline in inflationary gains
and tight credit policies also needs to be monitored closely.



- 35 -                                  Annex 2
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Bank Experience with Railway Projects in Brazil and Argentina
A. Brazil Railway Projects
I     The Bank approved five loans for railways in Brazil between 1971 and 1987, in addition to
financing the Carajas railway under the Carajas Iron Ore Project (Loan No. 2196-BR, 1982, US$304.5
million).
2.    The First Railway Project  (Loan 786-BR, US$6.0 million, 1971) was to finance the railway
portion of the Mineracoes Brasileiras Reunidas (MBR) iron ore project (partly financed by Loan 787-BR)
to carry 10-12 million tons of iron ore annually from the Aguas Claras mine to the Sepetiba ocean port
terminal. Although traffic started as planned in July 1973, it was hindered by operational problems, such
as derailments on the Central Line, whose rehabilitation (financed by RFFSA) took longer than expected.
Also, delays were encountered in the bridge strengthening program and in completing new workshops.
The traffic situation improved in 1974, reaching the forecast level by the end of the year. The project did
not address the institutional issues of RFFSA, and, in the end, the Bank's dialogue with the Government
on this subject had to take place largely outside the loan's context.  The project was completed in
December 1977, about three years behind schedule (PPAR No. 4258 dated December 30, 1982).
3.    The Second Railway Project (Loan 1074-BR, US$175.0 million, January 1975) financed the
first two years of RFFSA's 1975-1979 investment plan and, in addition, included a program of technical
assistance.  The main objectives were to enable RFFSA  to meet future demands, particularly in
transporting iron ore and steel products in the Central, and agricultural products in the Southern, regions.
Assistance was also provided for the rehabilitation and modernization of the suburban passenger services
in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo. In addition to track rehabilitation, the project included purchase of
signaling and telecommunications equipment and rolling stock for the suburban services in Rio and Sao
Paulo, as well as workshop equipment. The project was completed in December 1981, about two-and-a-
half years behind schedule. In retrospect, it appears that the project, which included a large number of
individual projects for a total estimated cost of about US$3.2 billion, was too large for the railway to
implement, and the time schedule was clearly too optimistic. Many components had to be reformulated
and/or postponed. For institutional development, the measures and actions which were essentially internal
to RFFSA were successful. Regarding broader questions of policies and relationships with the Federal
Government, the difficulties involved were underestimated, and the appraisal objectives were mostly not
achieved (PCR issued on June 22, 1983, PPAR No. 6295 dated June 20, 1986).
4.    The Third Railway Project (Loan 1171-BR, US$75.0 million, October 1975) financed the first
two years of the 1975-1979 investment plan of the Sao Paulo State Railway (FEPASA). The objectives of
the loan were to: (a) rehabilitate and, as necessary, expand the system; (b) improve the operational and
financial performance of FEPASA; (c) improve suburban passenger services in the Sao Paulo area; and (d)
strengthen urban transport coordination in the Sao Paulo area. During implementation, it soon became
evident that the program was too large for FEPASA, which, in any case, lacked the necessary funds. In
mid-1977, the Bank and FEPASA agreed to redefine the project.  However, the redefinition was



- 36 -                                   Annex 2
complicated by the fact that the loan funds were thinly spread over a large number of items for which the
bidding process was already advanced; redefinition was completed only in early  1980.   The
implementation of the redefined project progressed satisfactorily until its completion in October 1983
(PCR issued on June 29, 1984, PPAR No. 6295 dated June 20, 1986).
5.     The Federal Railway-Export Corridor-Project (Loan 2563-BR, US$200.0 million, signed July
1985), includes a policy and institutional development (action plan) component for the rationalization of
non-commercial railway operations and network and normalization payments by the Government for
public service obligations, tariff restructuring and better cost-accounting, and more effective operations
and maintenance management; and an investment component for the rehabilitation and improvement of
railway and intermodal facilities in the Goias-Minas Gerais and the Parana export corridors.  The
investment component was completed in early 1995, i.e. about three years behind the appraisal schedule.
The delays have been due to a combination of macro-economic factors (the unstable macro-economic
environment and the various stabilization programs have affected the implementation of the contracts and
RFFSA's financial capacity to fund the project) and management weaknesses, especially in procurement
and contract management.  The track rehabilitation and improvement works and the signaling and
telecommunication investments, however, have substantially increased the railway's capacity and
operational performance in the two corridors, and contributed to the railway's increased modal share in
the transport of grains and derivatives in particular.  Progress under the policy and institutional
component was mixed. RFFSA discontinued almost all its inter-city passenger services. The urban train
systems were transferred to a separate company, CBTU. The railways' freedom to set their rates, which
had been approved as a condition for the project, became effective in 1990. But the Government did not
allow RFFSA to close uneconomic branch lines, and did not make the corresponding normalization
payments. RFFSA's profitable businesses continued to subsidize unremunerative services, especially in
the Northeast. RFFSA's operational deficits led to the postponment of the maintenance of locomotives
and tracks and of essential investments, and to the present situation which is characterized by low
productivity and insufficient service quality (Loan closed on Dec. 31 1994, ICR issued on March 1,
1996).
6.     The FEPASA Railway Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2857-BR, US$100 million, July 27, 1987)
was designed to assist in the financial rehabilitation and improved commercial performance of the Sao
Paulo State Railway (FEPASA) and in increasing transport efficiency in FEPASA's main corridors
leading to Sao Paulo and to the port of Santos. The project, which was similar to the RFFSA project (see
para.5), also suffered from the same implementation problems: substantial delays in the rehabilitation and
improvement of track due both to the macro-economic environment and to project management
weaknesses; continued operation of unremunerative services, including, in this case, substantial inter-city
passenger services, and lack of normalization payments for public service obligations; overstaffing and
inadequate staff compensation leading to low morale and motivation, and to low productivity and service
quality. (Loan closed on Dec. 31 1995, ICR under preparation).
7.     Lessons Learned.   The projects have generally achieved their physical objectives, despite
substantial delays due to a combination of  unstable macro-economic environment and railway
management weaknesses. The track rehabilitation and capacity investments under the recent projects have
substantially increased the railway's operational efficiency and modal shares in the main corridors. The
policy and institutional components, however, have often fallen short of their objectives. Although some
progress was made under the two recent projects towards a commercially-oriented operation of both
RFFSA and FEPASA. in particular with the separation of the conmmuter trains, the closure of uneconomic
inter-city passenger services, the railways' freedom to set their rates, and recent staff reductions,



- 37 -                                  Annex 2
Government direct and indirect intervention in the management of the public railways continues to
adversely affect their operational efficiency and their financial performance.
B. Argentina Railway Projects
8.    The Bank has made two loans for railways in Argentina, and has supported the recent reform of
Argentina Railways through a Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Project (Loan No. 3291-AR, US$300
million, 1991).
9.    The First Railway Project (Loan 733-AR, US$6.5 million after cancellation, April 1971) was
completed in July 1980 and was based on the Investment Plan of Argentine Railways (FA) for the five-
year period 1971-1975. The project comprised the first two years (1971-1972) of the Investment Plan,
together with a plan of action to improve the operations and financial position of FA. Investments of the
equivalent of US$368 million were proposed during the project period 1971-1972, of which the foreign
exchange component was estimated at US$172 million equivalent. The Bank loan of US$84 million was
to finance 23% of the project or 49% of the foreign exchange requirements. The implementation of the
project ran into trouble almost from the start. The action taken in implementation of the agreed program
was grossly inadequate, so the Bank decided to stop disbursements in July 1972. After an agreed project
amendment, project implementation resumed. By February 1974 it was apparent that no progress was
achieved, and US$27.5 million was canceled. Main features of the project implementation were: (a) the
project was completed in 1980 instead of 1972; (b) lack of adequate Government funds; (c) a cost-overrun
of 11%; (d) only 31 % of the 1971-1975 investment prograrn expected to be made by 1975 was actually
made; and (e) hardly any action was taken by FA to implement the plan of action agreed with the Bank at
negotiations.
10.   The Second Railway Project (Loan 1677-AR, US$66.4 million after cancellation, March 1979)
was completed in December 1984. The project was intended to strengthen FA through the redimensioning
of its system; the rehabilitation of its track and equipment; and the improvement of its management and
services. Also, through technical assistance and studies, the project aimed to review various aspects of
FA and to develop its planning and project evaluation capabilities. The objectives were only partially
achieved, despite a two-year extension of the loan. Frequent changes in top management (five presidents
between 1979 and 1985), uncertain political conditions, a deteriorating economic situation, and
accelerated monetary depreciation were significant negative factors. Positive accomplishments included
reasonable progress on main line rehabilitation and improvement, freight car turnaround time, and boxcar
modification. The overall IERR was less than expected at appraisal (18% versus 22%), mainly due to the
resulting below-expectation traffic growth. However, only 4 projects (representing about 20% of the total
economic cost) had marginal IERRs of about 10%. In none of the project years did FA meet appraisal
financial targets. The PCR concluded that the project had only limited success and the problems in FA
were serious enough to require urgent attention by the Government.  A deep FA reform program,
supported by the Bank, is now underway.
11.   The Recent Reform.  Ferrocarriles Argentinos (FA) has been divided into three separate
businesses--freight, intercity passenger, and commuter rail--which were privatized or transferred to the
provinces in that order. The viable freight network was divided into six separate concessions. The first
20-year concession was offered in early 1990, and by October 1993 five of the six were in private
operation. All intercity passenger services were offered to the provinces, but most were ultimately
abandoned (as mentioned earlier). FA's urban commuter rail services, centered around Buenos Aires,
were divided into seven separate lines and offered as concessions to the private sector. The municipally-



- 38 -                                    Annex 2
owned subway system was also placed in a concession jointly with one of the seven commuter lines.
Private operations began on the first concession on January 1, 1994, and by June 1995 all but two of the
commuter lines had been transferred to the concession winners.
12.    Reform Outcomes. The outcomes in terms of cost and traffic level and reliability have so far
been very positive. First, the sector cost much less to the national government since the reforms and the
need for government subsidy has been cut significantly. Throughout the 1980s, FA required an average
subsidy of about 0.6% of GDP per year, while the Buenos Aires subway lost approximately $1.5 billion
per year in the years immediately preceding concessioning. The intercity freight concessionaires now
receive no subsidy from the national government, while the urban commuter railroads and the subway
concessionaires are expected to receive a subsidy averaging less than $100 million per year over the life of
their 12-year concessions, most of which is for capital improvements. These changes have had a direct
impact on the province, since several provinces provide modest subsidies for intercity passenger services.
Moreover, while the national government continues to subsidize the only "unsold" intercity freight line
(Belgrano), one of the options to reduce the burden of this subsidy is to devolve the line to the provinces
and let them decide if they want to continue operations.
13.    Second, except for intercity passengers, rail usage is stable or increasing. This suggests that rail
users as a whole are no worse off or are better off under privatization. In many cases, service quality
quickly improved. By 1994, in the case of freight, the concessionaires were carrying about the same
tonnage as in the late 1980s. In 1994, the first year in which some urban rail services were operated by
concessionaires, reported ridership increased 45 percent on urban conmmuter rail services and 18 percent
on the subway compared to 1993. Half or more of the reported increase on the commuter railroads is
thought to be due simply to dramatic reductions in the theft of fare receipts by train staff; the remainder
and most of the reported gain on the subway is thought to be genuine. The increases in freight traffic are
due both to increased service reliability and to tariff reductions, while urban passenger growth is largely
attributed to additional trains, cleanliness, and security.
14.    Lessons Learned. Three main lessons can be drawn from Argentina's experience in railway
reform thus far:
*  Focus on a single bidding criterion. One lesson is the need to be very careful with the choice of
bidding criteria to award the concession contracts. The Argentinean authorities learned from the
freight concession experience and substantially simplified the method of bid selection applied to the
metropolitan commuter railways. Trying to select the winning bid through numerous cumbersome
criteria with discretional weights is more likely to reduce the efficiency of the bidding process than to
improve it.  Instead, the terms of the concession should be made clear and known to all potential
bidders, and bidding should take place on the basis of a single parameter, which encompasses the
economic assumptions made by the bidders in relation to the terms of the concession. In the case of
the metropolitan railways concession, for instance, each concessionaire calculated the expected value
of revenue from operations, compared them to the capital investment programs and then estimated the
subsidy to be requested from the Government. This subsidy estimate thus reflects the bidder's own
best estimate of the expected return on the operation. The objective is to make the bidding process and
the final selection as transparent as possible and not to induce exaggerated or misleading assumptions.
*  Make flexible contracts.  A second lesson is the need to devise contracts which are inherently
flexible enough to incorporate unforeseen circumstances. Many freight concessionaires are reportedly
not meeting the investment promises they made in their bids and are essentially disinvesting in the



- 39 -                                     Annex 2
network they were provided by not maintaining their lightly used lines. Although there is some
question whether the bids were honest from the start, there are logical reasons why these investments
may not now be needed. In the first place, the truckers responded to improved rail service by
reducing their rates more sharply than expected, thereby reducing both rail traffic and rail
profitability. In any event, strictly enforcing some of these contracts is not necessarily in the public's
interest. In the case of rail, wasteful, unneeded investments would be made or the concessionaire
forced into bankruptcy, disrupting service until a replacement could be found.
* Transfer the assets quickly. The third lesson is related to the process of privatization rather than to
the regulatory instrument or contract design. It suggests the need to shorten to a minimum the time
between pre-awarding the concession and the start of operations.  The poor state of the assets,
including track, rolling stock, locomotives, and spare parts, when they are transferred to the
concessionaire from the public railway is a common complaint among concessionaires. There appears
to be a gap between what is recorded in the books and in the concession agreements in terms of
quantity and quality of assets before takeover and what is transferred afterwards to the private
operator. Given the lack of incentives to carry out and maintain proper inventory purchases on the
part of the public company, the longer it takes for the transfer to take place, the poorer the state of
these assets, and the more difficult it is for the private operator to start operations adequately.



- 40 -                                   Annex 3
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Operations Restructuring and Concessioning Component
A. Restructuring Plan
1.     The proposed          Table 1 - RFFSA 1993 Interchange Traffic: Regions and Other Raiways (000 tons)
RFFSA concessions
are largely based on
history. They simply             Nordeste Centro-Leste Sudeste  Sul  Oeste Tubarao FEPASA CVRD  Total
represent             Nordeste      1,862       68                                          1,930
agglomerations of the  Centro-Leste   14     11,558   2,573                      794  2,589 17,528
old Regions, and no  Sudeste                    77  43,850                      2,928   399 47,254
Regional boundaries  Sul                                  14,460                 791       15,251
are being changed.   Oeste                                      1,736            727        2,463
They are also partly  Tubarao                                           1,336               1,336
based  on  the  way  FEPASA                    914   3,869 1,587  928          11,814      19,112
bae   onVteUwa                              2,281    600                           84.913 87,794l
traffic actually flows  CVRD
today. Almost 80 percent of RFFSA's current traffic would be internal to the new concessions; i.e., it
would not cross the proposed concession boundaries. If flows to and from CVRD and FEPASA are
excluded, fully 96 percent of the current internal RFFSA traffic would remain within the proposed
concession boundaries (Table 1). The tendency for traffic to remain within concession boundaries is
partly due to gauge standards. While Sudeste is broad gauge, all other RFFSA lines are meter gauge
(IBRD Map No. 27392). The impact of the difference in gauge can be seen in Table 1, which shows
that the broad gauge Sudeste tends to interchange much more traffic with the broad gauge lines of
FEPASA than do Centro-Leste, Sul and Oeste, whereas the meter gauge Centro-Leste interchanges
more traffic with the meter gauge CVRD. Another factor is geography, both because the distance
between Northeast Brazil and the rest of the country is great, and because FEPASA divides the RFFSA
system and tends to hinder interchange of traffic among those parts of RFFSA which have to cross
FEPASA. In fact, there is no traffic interchanged among Sul and Oeste on the one side of FEPASA
and any part of RFFSA on the North and East sides of FEPASA.
2.     In order to facilitate the integration of the future concessions and to foster inter-regional rail
transport, the project would promote the constitution of an Association of Brazilian Railways (ABF),
following the model of the Association of American Railroads. The main objectives of the ABF
would be to:  (a) promote the development of an integrated railway system, capable of offering
seamless services to shippers across concessions, through effective information systems integrating
railway operators, shippers and suppliers; and (b) increase railway productivity through technological
research and development. The Association would be open to all Brazilian railway operators, shippers
and suppliers. A draft constitution agreement and statutes have been prepared. The project would
include funds to help finance the necessary studies to initiate the Association's program of activities.
3.     The  proposed concessions are  varied in size and traffic. The main traffic, revenue,
employment, rolling stock and line data for each RFFSA region and for the proposed concessions are
shown in Table 2.



- 41 -                                              Annex 3
Table 2 - RFFSA Regions and Proposed Concessions, 1994 Traffic, Rolling Stock and Tracks
Locomotives                   Waaons
Tons    T-Km      Revenue  Employee    Total   Avail   Dead  RFFSA              Out of   Total  Km of
(mid95 R$)  (mid95)  (mid95) (mid95) (mid95)  Owned   Priv   Serv    Avail    Line
(000)  (00.000)   (000)
SR I                 911       319      13,304    2,361       42      27       12     978    108    469      617   2,388
SR 11                461       516      12,972     1,300      32      22        9     703    152    262       593   1,365
SR 12                512        91       2,341      741       14       9        2     223       0     35      188     507
NORDESTE          1,884      926      28,617    4,402       88       58      23    1,904   260    766   1,398   4,260
SR 2              16,044    5,815      197,474    7,307      248     139       37   6,453    381  1,049   5,785   3,810
SR7                 1,117      662      24,247    2,571       84      28       50    1,170   239    219    1,190   1,906
SR8                 1,257      389      16,591     1,922      63      21       29    1,610      1   450    1,161   1,376
CENTRO-           18,418    6,866    238,312   11,800        395     188      116   9,233   621  1,718   8,136   7,092
LESTE
SR 3              40,834   19,886    342,821      7,699      288     193       58   7,061  1,590  1,115   7,536   1,642
SR 4               5,515       484      25,580    2,283       91      33       52   4,345    303  1,384   3,264       128
SUDESTE          46,349   20,370    368,401      9,982     379      226     110  11,406  1,893  2,499   10,800   1,770
SR 5               11,402    5,851     159,369    5,649      219     149       40   6,125       0    453   5,672   3,631
SR6                4,629    3,168       79,868    4,559      149      71       29   4,411       2    583   3,830   3,183
SUL              16,031    9,019    239,237   10,208       368      220      69   10,536      2  1,036   9,502   6,814
Tubarao             1,336       96       6,706      351        6       5        0     563       0      0     563      168
Oeste              2,590    1,916       40,495    2,655       88      51       10   2,777  1,259    845   3,191   1,611
Central Admin.                                     1,183
RFFSA Total       86,608   39,193    921,768   40,581    1,324       748      328  36,419  4,035  6,864  33,590  21,715
4.       The current productivity of RFFSA'S various regions, and their aggregate productivity for the
proposed concessions, is shown in Table 3.
Table 3 - RFFSA Regions and Proposed Concessions Productivity Ratios (1994)
T-Km/       T-Klm/
Loco       Wagon       T-Km/        T-Kmi/        Avail       Avail       T-Km/              Rev/
Avail       Avail         Km         Tonne        Loco       Wagon    Employee              T-Km
(%)        (000)  (000,000)         (000)        (000)       (000)
Recife                    64           57          134         350       11,815         517          135            0.042
Fortaleza                 69           69         378        1,119       23,455         870          397            0.025
Sao Luis                  64           84          179         178       10,111         484          123            0.026
Nordeste                  66           65         217          492       15,966         662          210            0.031
Belo Horizonte            56           85        1,526         362       41,835        1,005         796            0.034
Salvador                  33           84         347          593       23,643         556          257            0.037
Campos                    33           72         283          309       18,524         335          202            0.043
Centro-Lesle              48           83         968          373       36,521         844          582            0.035
JuizdeFora                67           87       12.111         487      103,036        2,639       2,583            0.017
Sao Paulo                 36           70        3,781          88       14,667         148          212            0.053
Sudeste                   60           81       11,508         439       90,133        1,886       2,041            0.018
Curitiba                  68           93        1,611         513       39,268        1,032       1,036            0.027
Porto Alegre              48           87         995          684       44,620         827          695            0.025
Sul                       60           90        1,324         563       40,995         949          884            0.027
Tubarao                   83          100         571           72       19,200         171          274            0.070
Oeste                     58           79        1,189         740       37,569         600          722            0.021
RFFSA Total               56           83        1,805         453       52,397        1,167         966            0.024



- 42 -                                  Annex 3
B. Traffic Potential
5.     Oeste.  The Oeste concession, which consists of the Bauru-Corumba line (SR1O), seems
promising.  Because of the need for fuel in the hinterlands, and the rapid growth of Brazil's
agricultural production for export, there is a strong growth potential for Oeste's traffic. The tariffs on
this type of traffic, particularly fuels, are relatively profitable, and the levels of traffic do not yet
justify a dedicated pipeline. Also, Oeste is the most likely link with the "Oriental" concession in
Bolivia, a linkage which might generate significant traffic when the Bolivian railway concession is in
full private operation. An important factor in this concession will be the way in which the connecting
FEPASA concessions are defined and marketed because all external Oeste traffic must connect with
either FEPASA or Bolivia. There are indications that FEPASA may permit the winning Oeste
concessionaire to have trackage rights from Bauru to the Port of Santos. This will need to be clearly
defined as soon as possible. Even as traffic flows today, Oeste has an average length of haul of about
740 km, which is the longest of any of the proposed Latin American railway concession.  If
connections can be made with the linked FEPASA concession, Oeste could be in an advantageous
position vis a vis trucking competition. Partly because of its long length of haul and locomotive
productivity (see Table 3 for comparative data), Oeste should be among the more stable concessions as
Brazil's transport market evolves. Supporting this prognosis, the Oeste concession was successfully
sold to a US investor consortium in March 1996, for a price that was about R$3 million above the
minimum  price of R$62 million.  In addition, the Bolivian Oriental concession is now  starting
operations under the new concessionaire (Cruz Blanca -- the owner of the Chilean rail freight
concession), so there is a reasonable likelihood that the Oeste traffic patterns will develop rapidly.
Certainly the ease of marketing the concession lends confidence to the process as planned.
6.     Centro-Leste.  The Centro-Leste  concession, which incorporates the SR2, SR7 and SR8
systems, occupies a central position in Brazil's heartland. As a result, it has perhaps the best potential
for sharing in Brazil's industrial growth which will not be based on a single commodity, as with some
of the other concessions. Unfortunately it will lose petroleum traffic to a pipeline in the near future,
which will reduce its near-term growth and profits. Nevertheless, it appears that, even after the loss of
petroleum traffic, Centro-Leste will enjoy a well-diversified and relatively stable traffic mix. Centro-
Leste is also unfortunate in having a relatively short (373 krm) length of haul, a level which will
encourage truck competition.  In addition, Centro-Leste currently has RFFSA's lowest ratio of
locomotive availability which has clearly constrained output. Overall, while the traffic forecast has
some limitations, the opportunity for improvements in productivity under private operations should add
to Centro-Leste's potential interest to bidders, though poor performance will be a problem in the short
run.
7.     Sudeste.  The proposed Sudeste concession, which incorporates the SR3 and SR4 regions,
carries over 52 percent of RFFSA's traffic on only 8 percent of RFFSA's total track km. Further,
over 80 percent of Sudeste's ton-km is driven by iron ore and steel supplies and products produced by
a single iron ore company (MBR, 61 percent) and two steel companies (21 percent). Thus, at least the
North-South route of Sudeste is actually an integral part of the production process for these companies,
and is not a general carrier like most of the other concessions: it is unlikely that there will be any
effective competition for Sudeste's traffic from  trucks.  RFFSA  reports have consistently shown
Sudeste to be profitable on a full cost basis even under RFFSA operation, and the future looks even
more positive under more efficient management. The key issue with Sudeste will be how to control the
potential market power of the concessionaire in the event that the iron and steel companies do not elect
to acquire the concession for their own account and thus become "captive shippers". Alternatively, if a
group of producers including MBR and the two steel companies forms a consortium and controls the



- 43 -                                     Annex 3
monopsonist shipper/owners.   These regulatory  issues are discussed  in Annex  7.   Sudeste's
productivity levels are the highest in RFFSA, and approach the levels found in North America. This
kind of specialized, high volume, medium distance (439 kin), efficient carrier is well positioned to
keep its traffic base, and should grow at the same rate as the existing iron and steel business.
8.     Sul. The Sul concession, which incorporates SR5 and SR6, already has a broad mix of traffic
strongly rooted in the agricultural sector, primarily in soybean exports. Sul will also be the outlet to
the sea for the new private railway now being constructed (Ferroeste) which is primarily based on
soybean export traffic. Sul, also, would be one of the most imrnediate beneficiaries of the growth of
rail traffic which has started to develop after the Mercosul trade agreement. Initial indications are that
the Mesopotamico concession in Argentina and the Sul concession are already developing international
traffic from Argentina to Brazil, mostly in containers. RFFSA forecasts for Sul and Centro-Leste
suggest that there should be a strong market for them.
9.      Tubarao.  The Tubarao concession, which is the old SR9, is a single purpose carrier (coal)
serving one customer (Electrosul) over a very short distance (72 km). It is not clear why Tubarao was
ever included within the national railway network, but its future is wholly bound up with the needs of
one customer. In this case, the sole customer may need to take an active position in the railway by
owning the concession and either operating it directly or contracting for its operation. Even though
Tubarao has a relatively short length of haul its average tariff per ton-km (for coal) is about two to
three times that of the rest of RFFSA, so there is probably considerable room for a new
owner/operator to effect economies of operation and save money for Electrosul. At the same time,
Tubarao's productivity levels are quite low, reflecting its limited market and the fact that traffic has
shrunk considerably in the last few years.
10.    Nordeste. The Nordeste concession, by contrast, is to be a "social railway." It has by far the
lowest traffic density and employee productivity of all of the RFFSA concessions and even the
relatively optimistic financial forecasts for other concessions do not seriously suggest that Nordeste can
be profitable. While there may indeed be a possibility that Nordeste could be marginally profitable if
operated with imaginative marketing and stringent cost controls as in Argentina or Chile, or as with
US shortline railways, it seems more likely that the kind of high tariffs needed to be profitable in the
private sector could be unacceptable in the poorest
region of the country.  Nordeste is thus a potential           Table4- RFFSATraMcProjecdons
candidate for being a "negative" concession; that is,                1996   1997  1998  1999  2000
how much would the Government (or Governrments  Oeste                2,041   2,415  2,788  3,081  3,374
at several levels) have to pay to ensure adequate  Centro-Leste    7,060   7,771  8,482  8,876  9,269
service levels and quality at an affordable price.
This is the approach which has been adopted with  Tubarao             106    108   111   115   118
considerable success in the Buenos Aires suburban  Sul              8,660   9,819 10,979 11,396 11,812
passenger concessions.   Because of the political
power of the Northeast constituencies in the Brazilian  Sudeste    22,253  24,208 26,162 28,281 30,400
Congress, it may not be easy to find a balance  NOreste              886    971  1,055  1,098  1,141
between the cost of subsidies to the Northeast and the
need for efficiency and low cost to the national budget. This problem is likely to cause Nordeste to be
the most difficult concession to complete.
11.    RFFSA  prepared traffic projections for the six proposed concessions on the basis of the
available market information and assuming effective private operations and marketing; the projections



- 44 -                                 Annex 3
are summarized in Table 4. They were used as the basis for developing tentative financial forecasts for
each concession (Annex 9).
C. Concessioning Plan
12.    Each concession is planned to be offered at auction to pre-qualified bidders for a period of 30
years. BNDES, with technical assistance, is finalizing the preparation of bidding documents and the
valuation of each concession in order to determine the minimum prices for the auctions. Pre-qualified
bidders would be allowed to bid at or above the established minimum price, which accounts for both
the right to operate the concession and the lease of RFFSA's rail assets. Payment is to be made over
time. First, a down payment equal to a percentage of the total price to be determined in each case
(10% in the case of the Oeste concession) is to be made shortly after completion of the auction. The
balance is to be paid through quarterly lease payments to RFFSA over the period of the concession,
after a grace period of two years. After the auction is successfully completed and the concession is
awarded to the highest bidder, the Government, through the Ministry of Transport, would enter into
the concession contract with the concessionaire, and transfer operations and maintenance
responsibilities from RFFSA to the concessionaire, over a two-month transition period during which
the activities of both RFFSA and the concessionaire are regulated through a transition contract. At the
same time, RFFSA would enter into a lease contract with the concessionaire, which would specify the
terms and conditions of the lease. A tentative timetable for the various concessions has been defined
conservatively, in order to account for the various project risks. Under the proposed timetable, the six
concessions would be offered at auction over the 21-month period from March 1996 to December
1997. The auction for the Oeste concession was successfully completed on March 5, 1996.
D. Reorganization of RFFSA's Rail Activities
13.   RFFSA is separating its rail assets, which will be leased to the concessionaires, from its non-
rail assets, which would be offered for sale to settle its debts. RFFSA's operational and operational
support divisions would be closed when rail assets are transferred to concessionaires, together with
operation and maintenance responsibilities. The residual activities of RFFSA will be organized into
two divisions. A Settlement Division will be established to sell non-rail assets and to manage and settle
RFFSA's debts (Annex 8).  A new Technical Division, with regional units for the four main
concessions (Centro-Leste, Sudeste, Sul and Nordeste), would be established to supervise rail asset
leases. The Technical Division would also supervise the technical, environmental and safety aspects of
the concession contracts, which would be delegated by MT/DTF to RFFSA under a delegation
agreement. The Technical Division would also supervise any residual public service obligations of the
Nordeste concessionaire. RFFSA's reorganization chart is presented in Annex 11. The reorganization
would be implemented in accordance with the implementation timeschedule (Annex 11) and with the
monitoring indicators and targets set forth in Annex 11, Table 2).



- 45 -                                  Annex 4
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Staff Retrenchment Program, Retraining and Outplacement Assistance
A. Introduction
1.     International experience, including Argentina's recent example for the region, shows
that productivity gains are one of the most predictable outcomes of railways privatization.
Productivity gains typically require significant cuts in employment. RFFSA's managers have
been aware of it for some time. The last formal massive recruitment effort dates from 1985.
The last time it transformed temporary staff into permanent staff was in 1988, when 2,000
employees had their status changed to permanent employees.  Recruitment has since been
frozen. However, Brazil needs cheaper freight services and its labor force needs to move to
activities where it can be more productive. This means employment in this sector has to be
reduced significantly.
2.     When the private concessionaires take over Brazil's freight railways, only 57 percent
of RFFSA's employees will still have a job. Over 20,000 people will have retired or left the
company, and the concessionaires may still consider that more staff reductions are needed once
they assess their needs, including changes in skill mix, consistent with an aggressive
commercial orientation.
3.     The Brazilian authorities and RFFSA's managers are concerned with the future of the
redundant employees. Their reform agenda includes the design of packages to minimize
adjustment costs to laid-off workers. This annex explains: (a) why it is in Brazil's interest to
reduce RFFSA's employment; and (b) how the adjustment cost to laid-off workers can be
minimized.
B. Rationale for Staff Reductions
4.     The wage bill currently accounts
for4 70to 75e pagerce   ofl c nthe rai ts'  Table I - Comparison of Labor Productivity Indicators (1994)
for 70 to 75 percent of the railways'                                       'osn  e o-i
Thousand net ton-km
expenditures.      It  illustrates   the   Countrv or Concession   Employment    rer employee
importance of employment policies for
the  efficiency  of freight railways  in   Argentina                5,151              1,259
Chile                     800              1,389
Brazil.  If employment levels are too   Conrail (U. S.)            24,728              5,200
high or quality too low, the services are   Canadian National       27,979             5,700
likely to be overpriced.  This stimulates   Brazil                 40,581               966
road transport which, according to recent     Nordeste              4,402               210
estimates, represents an additional cost to   Centro-leste          8,608               800
Brazil's economy of about $1 billion/year     Suldeste              9,2908             2,884
due    to    increased      maintenance       Oeste                 2,655               722
requirements, pollution, road congestion      Tubarao                 351               274
and accidents. High labor costs due to overstaffing or poor skill mix are subsidized through



- 46 -                                   Annex 4
reductions in maintenance and investments, which affects the overall performance of the
sector.' Average indicators of labor productivity in Brazil's railways are much lower than in
similarly large countries such as the United States or Canada.  It is also lower than in
Argentina after the railways' privatization, and even lower than in Chile before privatization.
The resolution of RFFSA's labor problem is therefore critical to the success of the reform.
5.     There are significant differences in labor productivity  across RFFSA's regions
(Table 1). A detailed analysis was conducted with the regional managers to assess staffing
needs for each function performed, and the number of redundant staff.  The number of
redundant staff was determined for each concession and by employment category on this basis.
There is also a need to adjust the skill mix by type of employment category, but much of this
adjustment should be made by the new operators. By the end of this consultation process,
RFFSA management had reasonable estimates of the staff reduction needs in each concession
2
area.
6.      Employment
levels   required    to       Table 2 - Minimum staff reduction requiirements and their productivity impact
operate  and  maintain                    Number of     Number of     Staff       Resulting
the  service  given  the                  employees as   employees to  reduction   labor productivity
current state  of rails   Concession      of May 1995    be laid-off  %      (OOOTkm/emploYee)
Nordeste            4,546        1,909      41.9              331
and trains and in view    Centro-leste         12,039        5,575     46.7               872
of expected increases in   Sudeste             10,385        4,624     45.0             3,110
demand are much lower   Sul                    10.616        4,547     43.4              1,307
Oeste               2,792          772      28.2             1,064
than   current  levels,   Tubarao                367           30       8.3               320
even in the South-East,   Central Admin.        1,209         590      48.8
the   most  productive       Total             41,991       18,047     43.0              1,415
region.  Minimum  staff reduction requirements for each concession are shown in Table 2.
This process led in May 1995 to a target for staff reduction of 20,000 employees.  Between
May 1, 1995 and September 1995, employment was reduced by 1,953 mostly through early
retirement and staff turnover. By the time the first concession was announced in September
1995, the new  target was 18,047.  Table 2 shows the distribution of the target across
concession areas.
7.     One of the purposes of this analysis is to ensure that, with expected traffic levels, the
railways could remain fully operational until the private operator takes over, and not be
hindered by massive voluntary reductions in job categories where reductions were not
warranted.  These staff reductions are a major step in the right direction, but additional
reductions may be needed.
8.     The new employment targets do not imply minimum levels. Once every concessionaire
has taken over operations, the organization of each system will change and is likely to lead to
more reduction in staff, some additional changes in skill mixes, and improved productivity.
But, additional changes in employment are likely to be marginal. For the Oeste concession,
1 de Castro, N. (1995), "Intermodalidade, Intramodalidade e o Transporte de Longa Distancia no Brasil",
IPEA, Texto para discussao No. 367, Fevereiro.
2 RFFSA (1995),"Proposta de readequacao dos procedimentos de operacao e manutencao visando ao
dimensinonamento do quadro de pessoal da area de producao", October, Rio de Janeiro (available in
project files).



- 47 -                                 Annex 4
for instance, it is estimated that in the short run 1,800 employees are needed to operate the
subsystem, in contrast to the 2,736 current employees. It is likely that the private operator
would be able to operate within a year or two with about 1,400 people or fewer if productivity
gains observed in Argentina are achieved in Brazil.
9.     The optimal strategy  might have been  to  leave all decisions to  the private
concessionaires. But this would not be consistent with the political reality of the country and
sector. About 80 percent of its workers are represented by one of 7 unions in the sector.
These seven unions deal only with railway workers, and 54 percent of unionized workers are
affiliated with them. All the unions are essentially opposed to privatization and reluctant to
participate in the reform process, although they actively participate in briefing meetings for all
employees. Leaving it to the private sector to negotiate with the unions undoubtedly would
have affected the fiscal return of the privatization, and in some cases may have limited the
interest of the private operator. The advantage of the proposed strategy is that the bulk of the
adjustment is made before privatization in order to minimize the risk of later conflicts. It also
has the advantage of ensuring that the social concerns are addressed properly.
10.    From a macroeconomic perspective, the potential spillovers of these productivity gains
on Brazil's railways could be quite important. Transport services represent about 4 percent of
GDP, and railway transport about 16.5 percent of the value-added. Freight transport is an
expanding sector, increasing at an average of 4.1 percent per annum during the eighties, when
GDP grew at only 1.5 percent. The restructuring of the sector should lead to an even faster
expansion based on a larger market share of interregional trade, as it becomes more
competitive. The internal rates of the return to a more efficient railway are estimated at about
68 percent for the economy as a whole (Annex 10, section D). This reflects the impacts of
increased efficiency on all other sectors of the economy, lower prices for all users, and an
improved distribution of freight traffic between trucks and railways consistent with a better use
of resources .
C. Characteristics of RFFSA's Employees
11.    To minimize the social cost of layoffs, the characteristics of the employees, including
age, experience, and education level were taken into account, compared to similar
characteristics in the regional labor market where they will have to compete for a new job. A
detailed analysis of the characteristics of each regional labor market, and of the reemployment
opportunities for each retrenched worker, was conducted in preparation for the design of the
redundancy packages.'
12     Brazil's regional labor market. The two main characteristics of Brazil's labor market
are: (a) the modest qualifications of its labor force; and (b) its capacity to generate jobs of
poor quality.
13.    The modest qualifications of its labor force reflects the low levels of formal schooling
and the low quality of basic education. Professional training is not entirely effective even for
the most educated worker s. Moreover, training on the job is often not sufficient because of the
3 Urani, A. and M.G. Carvalho (1995). "Minimizacao dos custos sociais da privatizacao: uma proposta
para a RFFSA" (project files).



-48 -                                          Annex 4
high turnover in the labor market. There are frequent short spells of unemployment. In many
cases, these spells result into lower wages when workers return to the labor force.
Increasingly also, there is a trend toward switching from the status of employee to independent
contractor.  The main characteristics of the required labor market are summarized in Table 3
herewith.
14.     In   spite   of                     Table 3 - Regional Labor Market Characteristics (1990)
some        similarities,   Characterist,c/Re2ion                   Sudeste    Sul   Nordeste   Centro-leste
such as the low  level   share of Brazil's employment (%)               45      17          27            7
of    education,    the    share of urban population (%)                86      68          60           75
of  RFSSA   proportion of illiterate in labor force (%)  9    8.5         34          14.2
profile   of  RFSSA          proportion with university degree(%)       24      20          13           20
employees         differs    proportion of legal workers (%)            48      38          20           32
from  the  rest of the    monthly wages & benefits (R$)               1.597   1,107        863         1,107
duration of unemployment (days)           229     190        396          202
labor             market   duration of employment (days)              1095    912         1126          912
(Table 4).           The    age of average worker (years)               35      35          34           33
unemployment rate (1995, in %)            5.4    4.6         7.7           4.9
average rail worker IS
about 41  years old, with about 18 years of service in the same company, without much
education and little or excessively specialized skills. The average worker in the general labor
market is at least six years younger. RFSSA's workers are paid between 10 percent and
30 percent more than the average worker in the respective labor market.
Table 4 - Profile of RFFSA's Labor Force.
(November 1995)
Average                                         Average
Average   time of    Primary    Secondary    Tertiary     monthly
age     service    education   education   education     wage
(Years)   (Years)      ()%)                   (%)         (reais)
Central Administration  41         18         16          32         53          2,412
Nordeste                45        18         67          25           7          1,215
Centro-leste            40         17         38          54          8          1,186
Sudeste                 41        18          38         52           9          1,656
Sul                     40        18          66         26           8          1,310
Tubarao                 40         16         33         47          20          1,232
Oeste                   41         17         9           88          3          1,302
15.     Without assistance, many of the redundant rail workers are likely to find it difficult to
be competitive in the labor market, and if they find a job, they are likely to be paid less. What
is needed is enough training to reduce the cost imposed by specialized job experience and the
lack of formal education. A team composed of advisors from various training institutions was
convened by RFFSA to prepare a menu of separation options for redundant staff to choose
from, and to design training packages that best meet the employees' needs.
D. Staff Retrenchment Program
16.     The staff retrenchment program  has five components:
(a)      incentives for early retirement;
(b)      incentives for voluntary separation;



- 49 -                               Annex 4
(c)    training;
(d)    assistance in job search and outplacement; and
(e)    compensation for involuntary separation.
(a) Incentives for Early Retirement
17.   In January 1995, RFFSA started its efforts to reduce staff with the introduction of a
program of incentives for early retirement. The main eligibility requirements were that the
employee had to be at least 50 years old and legally eligible to retire as of December 31, 1998,
the date when all subsystems would be transferred to private concessionaires.
18.    The proposed benefits under this program are:
(a)    payments to the retiree of his/her net salary for a period of six months while
paperwork is being processed by INSS (the National Social Security Institute);
this means that for six months the employee receives a salary from RFFSA and
will eventually be paid his/her pension retroactively for the same period;
(b)    if the paperwork is not completed within six months, RFFSA will continue
payments but in the form of an interest-free loan, since the employee will have
to reimburse all payments made six months after the date of retirement;
(c)    payment of both the employer's and the employee's shares of the monthly
complement to social security contribution specific to railways workers for a
maximum of 5 years until the early retiree reaches the age of 55, which is the
minimum age to be eligible for payments from this complementary fund
(REFER). This reduces the incentive for people between 50 and 55 to stay on
the job to benefit from this additional payment when they reach the age of 55.
Payments would be made at the time of retirement.
In 1995, 5,154 employees volunteered to retire under this plan. Eligible employees
will be able to participate in this plan until the concessionaire assumes operations.  The
concessionaires would thereafter determine the pension plan which would be offered to their
employees, and RFFSA would have no more pension obligations.
(b) Incentives for Voluntary Separation
19.    The package for voluntary separation is meant to ensure that the employee who
willingly leaves the company is ready to start his/her own business or is competitive in the
labor market, and does not have to consider a job that would lead to a significant reduction in
his/her salary. The main purpose of the incentive package is to comply with a Federal
guideline requiring that public enterprise retrenchment does not lead to increases in
4 INSS pays a pension calculated on the basis of the average salary for the last 3 years of work with
10 years minimum; REFER does not allow retirement at age 50 like INSS, but requires the worker to
remain until age 55; RFFSA will pay up to five years of both the employee's and the employer's shares of
the fund so that the employee is allowed to receive a complementary pension when he/she reaches the age
of 55.



- 50 -                                  Annex 4
unemployment that could threaten the social stability of the country.  Eligibility for the
packages will be on a first-come-first-served basis, within specified limits by job category.
20.    The key to achieving this goal is training of redundant staff. For workers interested in
starting their own business, the program will provide the necessary tools to comply with the
legal and administrative requirements of self-employment. The redundant employees must also
select a specific professional training.  For those not interested in starting a business, the
design of the training programs is targeted to ensure that, after their training, the workers are
equipped with the tools in demand in their respective regional markets. They also will be
assisted in their search for employment.
21.    The terms of eligibility are as follows. All employees are eligible on a first-come-first-
served basis except for the following:
(a)    employees who decided not to be associated with the employee savings
organization FGTS (which is optional);5
(b)    employees who are eligible for normal retirement;
(c)    employees entitled to their job because of their status or responsibilities (union
leaders, representatives of employees in internal commissions to prevent
accidents (CIPAS); these employees can resign from their responsibilities and
thus become eligible for the package;
(d)    pregnant employees;
(e)    employees on administrative leave; and
(f)    temporary employees.
22.    The separation takes effect within 30 days of the decision to accept the application of
the employee separating voluntarily. During that period, the decisions on the specific benefits
under the program have to be taken and processed. They include calculation of the financial
benefits, standard legal entitlements, and incentives, and the preparation of the training which
is to be taken within 6 months of approval of the separation.
23.    Financial Incentives.  The financial incentives depend on the number of years of
service of the employee. To assist the employees in their decision, every office of RFFSA has
been equipped with software that informs anyone interested of his or her options and computes
the benefits to be expected. The software calculates the benefits on the basis of the staff ID
number. The incentive varies from 4 to 12 months of salary, depending on the number of
years of service. To be eligible for this incentive, a worker should have at least 6 years of
service. The financial incentives are shown in Table 5 herewith. They are structured as
follows:
(a)    for staff with 6 to 25 years of service, the incentive is calculated as an
increasing geometric progression from 4 to 12 months of salary with
19 increments of 1.0595 for each year of service;
5 FGTS: Since 1967, labor laws require that all mixed (or private) companies deposit 8 percent of the
salary to an employee account, which is a forced savings the employee can only withdraw at retirement or
involuntary lermination of employment.



- 51 -                                 Annex 4
(b)    for staff with 25 to 30 years of service, the incentive is calculated as a
decreasing geometric progression from 12 to 6 months of salary, with
5 increments of 0.8705 for each year of service between these two points.
24.    Employees who                             Table 5 - Financial Incentives
accept the package would also
benefit from the authorization    No. of Years    Total       No. of Years       Total
to continue living in            with RFFSA   Monthly Wages   with RFFSA     Monthly Wages
buildings owned by RFFSA             6            4.00            19             8,48
for up to 12 months (if they         7            4,24            20             8,99
do live in such buildings), and      8            476             21            190,5029
from social security payments        10           5,04            23             10.69
(REFER) by RFFSA for 12              11           5,34            24             11,33
months, unless the employee          12           5,66            25             12.00
decides to withdraw the              13           6.00            26             10,45
savings accumulated in that          15           6,73            28             7,92
plan. On average the value of        16           7,13            29             6,89
the financial incentives is         17            7,56            30             6,00
$8,000 per worker, which       i     18           8,01
adds up to about $18,000 including the legal entitlements calculated on the basis of the number
of years of service, age, and contribution to various forced savings accounts. The incentive
package would be the equivalent of a fund from which the employee can draw while
unemployed, hence avoiding the kind of traumatic family situation that has been observed in
many labor redundancy programs. The average duration of unemployment varies from six to
nine months for most regions. The incentive package would pay a full salary to workers
during much of their job search period. In addition the package would include training to help
reduce the job search period, thereby further reducing the probability of social problems.
(c) Training Program
25.    To provide an additional incentive to workers to attend training  sessions, the
employees who will not take the training option will receive one less monthly salary than those
who will take it. But to ensure that the training is in the best interest of the employees, the
training program was designed as follows:
(a)    the regional labor markets in each subsystem was analyzed in detail by a labor
market specialist of the policy research institute IPEA to identify the nature and
composition of jobs, relative to supply and demand. This information has been
used to select the types of training and target the efforts to maximize the
chances of a match between the skills provided and those needed;
(b)    each employee who requests training will have his/her training needs assessed
based on his/her profile assessment (e.g., education, experience, and interest).
This has already been satisfactorily completed for the workers of the Central
Administration and of the Oeste concession, who have separated voluntarily;
and



- 52 -                                Annex 4
(c)    every employee will be able to benefit from two types of training, which could
require about six months of their time.  During that period RFFSA  will
continue to pay his or her health plan and supplementary pension fund. The
government will continue paying the unemployment insurance for three
months.
26.    Although there is no center specialized in retraining of unemployed workers, Brazil has
three major training centers which can provide this service: SEBRAE, SENAI and SENAC.
All three are specialized in retooling employed workers and all have training centers
throughout Brazil.
(a)    SEBRAE is an institution specialized in training for starting small and medium
size businesses.  It provides extensive consulting  services on business,
accounting, financial or legal aspects of small and medium businesses. Their
main requirement is that participants have a high school or university degree.
Training is targeted to employees interested in becoming independent
businessmen;
(b)    SENAI specializes in technical training for employees interested in retooling
their skills for the industrial sector. Most clients have a secondary degree; and
(c)    SENAC specializes in technical training for employees interested in areas of
general and commercial services.  Their typical clients have a high school
diploma.
27.    SENAI
and SENAC are i           Table 7 - Estimated Demand for Training by Training Institution
and SENAC are                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Total Cost
typically                               SEBRAE   SENAI   SENAC   Total  (in R$000)
financed          Nordeste              143        143     668       954    844
through           Centro-leste          418        418      1952     2788   2,467
contributions     Sudeste               347        347      1618     2312   2,047
levied  on  the   Sul                   341        341      1592     2274   2,012
total wage bill  Tubarao                2          2        11       15     12
in the sectors in   Oeste               58         58      270       386    342
Central Administration    142   106      92        169    760
which they are   Total                  1451       1415    6203      9069   8,486
specialized .
SEBRAE is financed by a fee levied on all sectors.  They are typically contracted by
companies trying to retool their employees; however, individuals also can sign up for specific
classes, as long as they are willing to pay for them. For this program, the three institutions
would create new training programs or adapt their programs to the needs of RFFSA's workers.
Their average fees per person are as follows: SEBRAE, R$2,000; SENAI, R$2,408; and
SENAC, R$320. The training offered by SEBRAE and SENAI imply an average duration of
150 hours. SENAC's training is only 40 hours because the implied degree of specialization is
lower (e.g., hotel services, driver). SENAI also includes a kit to assist trainees to open their
own business. The largest demand is likely to be for SENAC's program, since the type of
training offered is well in line with current demand in the labor market, where the fastest
growing needs are in the services sector. The total cost of the training program is estimated at
6 The retrenchment program at the Central Administration (AG) where excess employment was estimated
at 590, was completed in January 1996. The early retirement program absorbed 254 people, 315
separated voluntarily, and only 21 were involuntarily terminated.



- 53 -                                 Annex 4
about $10.5 million. An additional $2 million would be needed to train the staff of the
residual RFFSA.
28.    A problem with the current institutional arrangement is that the differentiation of the
training institutes' products (service vs. industry vs. independent business) is imposed by law,
even if in practice there is not much difference in the content of much of the training they
provide. This means that there is little room to expose these institutions to a real market test
that could result in a stronger incentive to ensure that trainees get at a job at least as satisfying
as they had before.
29.    A noteworthy aspect of the reform package is that RFFSA will organize a literacy
program for all staff whether redundant or not. RFFSA is entitled to this training but has
never applied for it. Since the training is provided by SENAI and is financed out of regular
contributions to fund SENAI, there is no additional cost involved. It will be part of the
expected training of the company's staff.
(d) Assistance for Reemployment
30.    The reform program  also includes assisting redundant workers in their job search,
including preparing resumes and providing information about employment opportunities.
Redundant employees will also be assisted in addressing problems encountered in negotiating
new employment contracts. A similar type of assistance will be offered to those trying to start
their own business or to create cooperatives. Training is not a condition to be eligible for this
service.
31.    RFFSA is creating a data bank of redundant workers and firms potentially interested in
the skills of these workers. The service will be available for up to eight months after an
employee has concluded his or her training. In view of RFFSA's modest experience in this
area, specialized firms will be hired to provide this service. Regional representation will be a
requirement for these firms. Moreover, financial assistance to workers in isolated areas may
be needed to help them reach interview sites.
32.    An issue some may be concerned with is that the training may only pay lip service to
the need of the workers. One solution would be to link the payment for training to the success
of the employee in his or her choice in the job market. But this cannot be implemented in this
project. Since RFFSA had already negotiated a fee with each of the training units before the
Bank's involvement, there is no room to built in better incentives in these fees. The alternative
is to add on a success fee of 10 to 20 percent for every worker that gets an equivalent or better
job and keeps it for at least a year to the firm that is responsible to assist the workers in
finding a new job. Criteria to measure success of the training program will have to be devised,
however, achieving the market average based on worker qualification and experience would be
a reasonable approach. It is likely that unions would favor maintaining the current salary or
obtaining a better one.
33.    To ensure that the training follows its proper course, the firm  responsible for the
reemployment program would also be requested to supervise its implementation. To the extent
that the success fee is sufficient, it will provide an additional incentive to this firm to perform



- 54 -                               Annex 4
in this monitoring role. The "reform team" in RFFSA will supervise the overall process and
ensure coordination.
(e) Compensation for Involuntary Separation
34.   If  enough workers have not left voluntarily with incentives or through early
retirement, involuntary separation will occur. This will not necessarily be fully implemented
by the time the concessionaire takes over. However, even after concessioning, RFFSA will
monitor the staff reductions until the targets are achieved. The workers dismissed under this
third phase will receive only 80 percent of the value of the financial package offered to
workers separating voluntarily; however, they will enjoy all other benefits provided to workers
separating voluntarily, including assistance in job search and training. There is an incentive
for them to obtain training since their financial package is subject to the same penalty, i.e., one
month's salary, if they decide not to take any training.
35.    There is concern with the need to avoid firing people who are good performers and to
avoid creating difficult personal situations by firing people who have significant social
responsibilities. Information available in the personnel files is being used in the selection of
staff to be declared involuntarily redundant. Selection of candidates would be based on the
following criteria:
(a)    record of attendance level;
(b)    frequency of penalties or suspensions;
(c)    overall performance evaluation by the immediate supervisor; and
(d)    family situation (e.g., marital status, number of children).
36.    These workers will still get on average $17,751 in legal entitlements. However, they
will receive only $8,000 on average in incentives, 20 percent less than the workers who
volunteered. Including the value of training, this is still about $10,000 more than the legal
requirement, and represents 6 to 8 times the average monthly wage in most regional labor
markets.
E. Sequencing, Timing and Implementation
37.    While it is obviously very difficult to predict the exact distribution of workers across
incentive packages, RFFSA tried to do so based on small surveys in consultation with regional
managers. It is expected that the incentive packages are attractive enough to minimize the need
to have to rely on involuntary separation. With the exception of Tubarao, where 53 percent of
workers (30 staff) will lose their job involuntarily, on average only a small proportion of the
workers is expected to be in that situation.  On the basis of experience with the Central
Administration and Oeste concession, the package seems attractive enough, and well designed.
38.    The staff reductions will be achieved in three stages and each will imply a very
different time-table, tenure and responsibility. The first is the reduction of staff through early
retirement. This new plan began in January 1995 and will continue until December 1998,
when all subsystems should have been transferred to private concessionaires. The second stage
is voluntary separation, with a timetable for each subsystem beginning with the Central
administration. Workers have 15 days to decide after the announcement of the availability of



- 55 -                                   Annex 4
the package. RFFSA is responsible for carrying out this second phase. The final stage is
involuntary separation. The process ends when the targeted reduction is achieved. Therefore,
part of the program will be implemented after the concessionaire has assumed operations. It is
estimated that about 4,400 employees would be retrenched after the respective concessions
have been awarded.
39.    If an employee retires, the value of the package is not affected by the timing of the
decision as long as it takes place
before  the  concessionaire  takes   Table 8 - Tunetable for the hnplementation or Separation and Training
over.   A    worker   separatin       ~~~~~~~Total Staff
over.   A    worker   separating   Time Table       Reduction    Retirement Separation   Trained
voluntarily  receives  a  package   30/06/96           7,000        5.000     2,000      1,000
equivalent  to  an   average   of  31/12/96            12.000       6,500     5,500      2,750
30/06/97        17,000        7,100     9,900      4,950
US$8,000 in incentives as well as  30/06/98            19,000       7.700    11,300      5,650
about $10,000 in entitlements from   31/12/98         21,000        8,300    12,700      6,350
normal labor law (this is what any   30/06/99         22,000        8.900    13,100      6,550
private company would have to pay). In addition, workers will get on average the equivalent
of $2,000 worth of training; it will take up to six months to complete but could be shorter if a
job is found. If the worker becomes redundant involuntarily, 80 percent of the incentive
package and training and outplacement assistance are provided. The worker also gets extended
protection in comparison to what would be given in a private company. Indeed, if the private
concessionaire decides that the targeted reduction is not enough, it can cut staff further.
However, during the first 12 months of his/her contract, the concessionaire will have to pay
the same benefit that RFFSA paid to the workers declared redundant involuntarily. After 12
months, however, any worker fired would receive an entitlement from normal labor law (about
$10,000 for the average employee of RFFSA). The timetable for each option is given in
Table 8).
40.    A  problem  with this sequencing is that RFFSA  has no leverage over how  the
concessionaire will decide to staff its company. It is conceivable that a concessionaire would
be able to recruit someone who left and receives an incentive package. If this happens within
the first 12 months of operation on the concession, the private operator must reimburse RFFSA
for the cost of the incentive package and the training. While this was not stipulated in the
bidding documents for Bauru, it should be included in the next subsequent documents.
41.     After the first year of operation, anyone can be rehired. The labor law impedes any
restriction to recruitment, including people who received a package. The only restriction is
that any worker accepting a package will never again be able to work for RFFSA.
42.    Finally, these options are being discussed in great detail with all workers. With only
his or her ID number in hand, any worker can find out how much cash he or she would receive
when leaving. Every local office has access to a computer that can provide that information,
and the system appears to be used effectively. Every worker also receives information on each
option and expresses preferences. Since there is a literacy problem, RFFSA is also providing
special assistance in explaining the options. In Bauru, for example. oral presentations have
been attended by more than a third of the workforce.  Union representatives also attended
officially and while expressing concern with the loss of positions, recognized that the effort
made to minimize the social cost of redundancy was unusual.



- 56 -                                  Annex 5
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Emergency Rehabilitation Program
1.    The capital investment component of the loan is divided into six components: (a) a locomotive
rehabilitation ($106 million) to increase fleet availability thus increasing traffic carried and decreasing
the costs of locomotive failure; (b) a wheel replacement on both locomotives and wagons ($9.4
million) to reduce derailments; (c) a conversion of freight wagons to container flat-wagons to capture
traffic now growing as a result of Mercosul development ($3 million); (d) a minimum track repair
program ($23.3 million) to maintain safe operation and reduce derailments; (e) limited systems
investments primarily in signaling and remote switch control ($6.5 million) needed to permit planned
manpower reductions to proceed; and (f) a program to close down and consolidate rolling stock repair
shops ($11.2 million) to meet manpower reduction and asset sale targets. This investment program is
needed to ensure that RFFSA will not substantially decrease its performance during the transition
period to the concessions. Experience in Argentina and elsewhere has shown that during the transition
period to concessions, locomotives and rolling stock rapidly deteriorate, which substantially decreases
the performance of the railway to levels well below those indicated in the bidding documents.
Therefore, concessionaires would have to carry out a substantial amount of emergency repairs,
affecting demand which then switches to other modes and takes a long time to recapture. The proposed
rehabilitation program is the result of lessons learned in other systems, particularly in Argentina. It
will prevent further deterioration of equipment and essential infrastructure.  The concessionaires
would still have to invest their own funds to make the concessions a profitable operation.
A. Locomotive Rehabilitation
2.     At present, as a result of deferred maintenance, only about 52 percent of RFFSA's locomotive
fleet is operative, and those in operation are highly prone to failure en route. This imposes two costs
on the system: traffic is refused because there are not enough locomotives available to haul the traffic
on offer, and operating costs are much higher than necessary because on-line failures are more costly
than preventive maintenance. The situation has become so difficult that there will be little tractive
power left to hand over the concessionaires, and the concession value will suffer accordingly, if some
repairs are not effected in the very near term. RFFSA plans to take 240 of their current fleet of 901
locomotives, of which only 420 are in operation currently, and contract out the necessary
rehabilitation, which will yield much higher reliability and availability for an estimated eight-year
period. The program would help ensure an effective transition from RFFSA's to the concessionaire's
operation.  Table 1 hereafter shows the characteristics and condition of the locomotives to be
rehabilitated.



- 57 -                                                Annex 5
Table 1 - Locomotive Repair Program
Regions/Sub                          Annual kin      Fleet in  Failures/     Output  Number of Locos in  Reduction in
divisions   Fleet           Type       Loco   Operation    1000km  000,000 Tkm      Failures Program       Failures
1     42 ALCO RSD8              69.9        21.7        0.5         23.4        63.2       21           735
11      2 GE U8B                 131.7        1.7        1.1          1.7        21.0        2           290
11     24 GE UIOB                131.8       14.2        0.4         32.4        62.4       14           737
12      4 GE U8B                 60.0         1.0        1.0          1.4         4.9        4           238
12     10 GE U5B                 65.8         5.5        0.6          4.4         18.1       3           119
Nordeste         82                                   44.12                    63.3        169.6      44          2119
3     43 GM SD38                  4.3       21.0        1.1         65.5        100.3       2           115
3    128 GE U23C                  7.1       76.4        0.5        608.1       269.9       40          1695
4     15 GE U20C                  4.5        7.0        0.9          7.0         28.2       8           386
4     13 HIT ELE                  4.6        5.9        0.5          3.2         13.5       6           165
4     16 ENG ELEC                 7.1        4.0        0.6          5.2         17.1       2           101
Sudeste                                                                                               58         2,462
5    128 GM G22 UB/U              6.8       79.8        0.6        157.1       326.3       23          1128
5     30 GM GT22 CUMI             9.1       21.4        0.5        166.4        97.5        5           273
5     10 GM GT22 CUM2             8.6        7.7        0.6         65.1         39.6       8           497
5     22 GM G22 CU                7.3       12.1        1.0         42.4        88.2        4           349
6     26 GM G12 CAN               8.2       14.2        0.7         43.7         81.6       4           275
6     20GMGT22CUM                 9.7        8.9        0.9         51.3        77.7       15          1572
6     30 GM G26CU                10.1        9.1        1.0          6.1        91.7       12          1457
Sul                                                                                                   71         5,551
Oeste            53 GE U20C                  8.2       33.2        1.2        135.5        325.4       10         1176
2     88 GE U20C                  8.3       47.6        1.0        157.0        394.4      23          2287
2     72 ALCO MX260               7.6       36.8        1.0         97.4       280.6       10           915
7     13 GM G12 CAN               8.9        5.6        0.6         11.2         30.0       5           323
7     17 GM G12 USA               8.5        6.8        0.6         13.8         34.7       5           306
7     35 GE UIOB                  8.5        8.3        0.6         12.1        42.1        4           243
8     35 GE U13B                  4.3       16.6        1.6         11.4        114.0       8           660
8     13 GE U20C                  6.8        5.7        1.2         19.2        46.2        2           196
Centro-leste                                                                                          57         4,930
Total           889                                     472                                          240         16238
3.       The  financial  evaluation  of              Table 2 - Locomotive Rehabilitation Program  (Financial Evaluation)
this      locomotive         rehabilitation
considers  two  primary  benefits: (a)                                              Repair Revenue       Rehab. Financial
Locos  Failures     Costs   Losses        Cost     NPV
the  incremental income  that can  be   Concessions             Rehab. Reduced       US$I   (US$)   (US$ m.) (US$ m.)
generated  from  an added locomotive   Nordeste                     44    2,119      1,546    2,928         21.7      4.9
hour available; and, (b) the costs that  Sudeste                    58    2,462      1,653    3,233         31.8      2.4
.  ,                  ~~~        ~~Sul     71    5,551      1,546    3,596         38.2     47.6
can  be  avoided  if  the  locomotive SW1                                   ,5       154       359382                 76
canlurs be avoided  in te   loducomotive Bauru                      10    1,176      1,546    3,311          5.5     11.2
falures en route can be reduced and   CCentro-Leste                 57    4,930      1,546    2,686        30.2      26.7
replaced  by preventive  maintenance.   Total                      240   16,238      1,572    3,157        127.5     92.9
RFFSA   records  indicate  that  each
locomotive failure costs in the range of $3,000 of net revenue because of loss of output capability.
The average repair cost to recover from a failure is around $1,500, yielding a benefit per failure
avoided of around $4,500, ranging for particular locomotive types in individual regions from $2,000 to
$5,000. The average cost per locomotive for the rehabilitation program is $440,000, ranging from
$350,000  to  $500,000, which  compares with  a new  locomotive price  of about $2,000,000.   The



- 58-                                        Annex 5
locomotive rehabilitation program shows a substantial positive Net Present Value (financial) in all
regions at a 12 percent discount rate (Table 2).
4.     The results are also quite robust with respect to the base    Table 3 - Locomotive Program:
parameters.  The base case financial  rate of return for the entire             Sensitivity Analysis
component is 50 percent. A 20 percent reduction in the calculated cost           Rate of Retum (%)
per failure would reduce the rate of return to 39 percent. A 20 percent  Beneats-20%      39
increase in the rehabilitation cost per locomotive would reduce the rate  Costs+20%       41
of return to about 41 percent.  Under both assumptions together, the  Both                31
rate of return would still be a very satisfactory 31 percent.
B. Wagon Repair
5.     The  wagon   repair
program   con s wgof  thepr                          Table 4 - Wagon Repair Program
program   consists  of  the                          Number of  Estimated Cost   Number of  Estimated Cost
replacement of worn wheels   Concessions          Wagon Wheels  (million US$)  Loco Wheels  (million US$)
which are causing excessive   Centro-leste              2.803          1.655        854         0.802
derailments.  In total, about   Sudeste                  4.630        3.199         702         0.696
11,190 wagon wheels would   Sul                         3,330         1.966         647         0.647
be relace.  In  dditon   a Nordeste               427          252          195         0.180
be replaced.  In addition, a   Total                    11,190        7.072        2.398        2.327
limited number of locomotive
wheels (about 2,400) are also to be replaced. Due to limited historical data, RFFSA cannot distinguish
between the consequences of locomotive derailments and wagon derailments. All investments have
been analyzed as if they were wagon derailment costs. This is conservative as a locomotive derailment
is much more costly to repair than a wagon derailment. RFFSA records indicate that derailments due
to bad wheels cost around $2.7 million per year in lost revenues and added labor costs. Assuming
that these costs can be reduced by about 80 percent through the replacement of bad wheels, the wheel
replacement program would have an estimated rate of return of 19% (Table 5).
6.     The base case financial rate of return of 19 percent is also a
relatively robust result: a change in the derailment reduction by 20            Sensitivity Analysis
percent would reduce the rate of return to 13 percent. An increase in           Rate of Return (%)
the replacement cost of 20 percent would reduce the rate of return to   Base Case          19
14 percent. Given the conservative nature of the original calculation,   Benefits -20%    13
(i.e., there is no allowance for the higher cost of locomotive wheel   Costs +20%          14
faults, no allowance for the non-operating costs of derailments such as   Both            8
human injury or environmental clean-up, and no allowance for lost cargo value), there is good reason
to conclude that the wheel replacement program will have an acceptable return for RFFSA and the
concessionaires.
C. Wagon Conversion
7.     As a result of the Mercosul Trade Agreement, trade between Brazil and Argentina is increasing
rapidly, especially in higher-valued manufactured products. Transport alternatives for this trade are
truck or rail. Rail movements necessitate a change of gauge at the Brazil/Argentina border since the
Argentine Mesopotamico Railway is standard gauge, and Sul is meter gauge. These two factors --
higher-value products needing better service and the change of gauge at the border -- combine to



-59 -                                        Annex 5
encourage growth in rail-hauled containers if rail is to be competitive. In 1995, for example, RFFSA's
container traffic grew at about 20 percent per year.
8.     In the long run, as traffic increases, the Sul concessionaire is likely to invest in specialized
equipment. RFFSA currently has available 300 flat wagons that can be converted rapidly at a cost of
about $10,000 per wagon. These wagons will be suitable in the short run, and will have a ten-year
life. Discussions with a potential concessionaire confirm that the equipment would be consistent with
current plans and would be used as planned. On this basis, the value of the conversion program will
be reflected in the bids received.
9.     On  the  basis  of a  relatively  conservative  wagon   Table 7 - Wagon Conversion Program:
productivity of 540,000 ton-km per wagon annually and of a net             Sensitivity Analysis
incremental financial revenue of about .005 Reals per ton-km (as   Rate of Return (%)
compared  to  the  total revenue  of .024  Reals/ton-km  for   Base Case             23
container traffic) the financial rate of return was estimated at   Costs +20%        18
23%.                                                               Both              12
10.    The rate of return for the conversion program  is robust.  A reduction of 20%  in the net
benefits still yield a rate of return of 17 percent. A 20 percent increase in the conversion cost would
still yield 18 percent rate of return. Under both assumptions together, the rate of return would still be
a satisfactory 12 percent (Table 7).
D. Track Repairs
11.    Shortage of capital has caused undermaintenance of track and infrastructure which has led to
increased derailments and safety risks, especially in areas where RFFSA carries hazardous cargoes.
Since RFFSA's traffic mix in many regions is weighted toward petroleum products, there are many
points at which a safety risk exists. An immediate program of rehabilitation is needed on the parts of
the network which carry higher density traffic and are thus exposed to higher risks of derailment.
Because it is basic work aimed at the higher priority parts of the network, the maintenance work will
be needed whoever is operating the tracks.   Further, as the Government remains the owner of the
track and structures, the value of the work accrues to the Government both in asset ownership and in
the value of the bids received for the concession.
12.    The program  would cost in total about $23.3               Table 8 - Track Repair Program
million, and will include the replacement of sleepers,                Sleepers    Rail         Ballast
rails and ballasts (Table 8 herewith). For perspective,                (units)   (tons)   (cubic meters)
there are about 1,800 sleepers, 100 tons of rail, and   Nordeste       50,046    --            16,800
1,000 cubic meters of ballast per km  of line, and   Centro-Leste   42,285    3,000            15,504
RFFSA currently has 22,000 km of line. In addition,   Sudeste          77,589     270           2,900
the  program   includes  minor  works  on   other
infrastructure facilities.
13.    The benefits to be derived from the track repair component    Table 9-Track Repair Program:
are the reduced derailments of trains. RFFSA statistics show that 48           Sensitivity Analysis
percent of the derailments are attributed to tracks.  It was assumed   Rates of Return    Financial
conservatively that the proposed track repairs would reduce the costs   Base           19
of such derailments by 15%. On this basis, the rate of return was   Costs +20%          14
estimated at 19%.  If benefits were 20%  lower than expected, the   Both                9
rate of return would be about 13 %. If costs were 20% higher than



- 60 -                                         Annex 5
expected, the rate of return would be 14% (Table 9). There are other important benefits, such as
improved human safety and reduced environmental risks, but they are not easily quantifiable. There is
no question that the investment is needed if the lines are to continue in service, whoever operates them,
and the value will accrue to the Government.
E. System Investments
14.    System  investments comprise primarily telecommunication and signaling systems (autornation
of control of remote switches) which today require independent staffing (Table 10). This program,
which is estimated to cost about US$6.5 million equivalent, will reduce operating costs and increase
the ability to operate the railway safely and reliably. The investment is necessary to support the
already committed manpower reduction program. It will be needed by concessionaires. No rate of
return for the component has been calculated because the annual operating savings in manpower alone
are in excess of US$9 million. Costs will be recovered by RFFSA before concessioning in most
cases, and will accrue to the Government in the value of the bids received.
Table 10 - Systems Investment Program
Mixed
Telecom   Preset Route
Systems     System      Total
Region /Subdivision                (US$ m.)   (US$ ni.)  (US$ m.)           Observations
SRI-Recife                            0.063       0.516     0.579  Mixed System being implemented
SR3- J. de Fora                          0        0.150     0.150  Preset Route System to be
implemented w/o Full train detection
System
SR5-Curitiba                             0        0.928     0.928
SR6-Porto Alegre                      0.300                 0.300
SR7-Salvador                          0.500       0.308     0.808
SR8-Campos                            0.200       0.172     0.372
SR1 -Fortaleza                                    0.429     0.429  Mixed System already implemented
SR5-Sao Luis                          0.200       0.234     0.434
Subtotal                              1.263       2.737     4.000
Signaling of interfaces                                     2,500  Information of control of remote
Ferrovia do Ago, Saudade- Barbara                                 switches
F. Relocation of Maintenance Facility
15.    RFFSA  has too many maintenance shops scattered over the system.  The concessioning
program will require shop consolidation both in order to reduce costs and in order to free surplus
property for subsequent development. Also, in many cases RFFSA shops are in urban areas where
closing the shop will trigger an immediate need to make the shop area available for other uses. The
program ($ 6.5 million) consists of closing and relocating equipment from about 42 facilities ranging
from small, general purpose facilities to larger rolling stock shops, including 15 in Nordeste, 14 in
Centro-Leste, 5 in Sudeste, and 8 in Sul.
16.    Because of the diverse nature of the activities involved, no rate of return was calculated for this
part of the program. Shop relocation is an important part of RFFSA's consolidation in support of
concessioning, and labor savings alone are expected to repay the investment in the first year after
relocation. In addition, the revenues of such subsequent sale of real estate should largely exceed the
cost of relocation and consolidation.



- 61-                                  Annex 6
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Environmental Management Component
A. RFFSA's Environmental Management and Safety Unit
1.    RFFSA  has created an Environmental Management and Safety (EMSU) unit, with the
following functions: plan, study, supervise, coordinate, and monitor activities related to environmental
protection, threats to human life, damage control, human health, fauna, flora and natural resources, so
as to prevent damage, enhance the value of the railroad, and promote safety, confidence, and better
quality of life. EMSU is in particular responsible for the preparation of environmental protection
standards and procedures, traffic safety rules, work safety measures, and risk assessment.
2.     With the proposed restructuring and concessioning of RFFSA's operations, and the proposed
delegation by MT/DTF of the environmental and safety supervision of the concessions, the EMSU will
have the following responsibilities:
(a)  prepare, supervise and monitor the environmental and safety standards for the
installations, equipment, and activities of RFFSA and the concessionaires, on the basis of
existing laws and regulations, ensuring their compliance in order to avoid accidents, fires,
spills, ruptures, pollution, and other environmental damage;
(b) monitor the condition of installations, equipment, and activities of RFFSA and the
concessionaires to ensure compliance with regulations and laws required for environmental
protection;
(c) establish procedures and help develop and execute emergency plans in case of fire, spills,
ruptures, and other potential catastrophes with the possibility of damage to soil, air, water,
vegetation, animal and human life, a well as company assets and assets of others;
(d) establish procedures to coordinate and monitor the inspection of RFFSA's and the
concessionaires' activities, suggesting preventive or corrective measures as necessary to
ensure environmental risk prevention and control;
(e) prepare and monitor compliance with regulations and procedures for collection and
destination of industrial and sanitary wastes and effluents so as to ensure appropriate
environmental protection;
(f) prepare regulations, directives, and methodologies for specific training about
environmental risk prevention and control, and improve the ability to execute tasks and/or
responding to emergencies that occur from the transport of environmentally hazardous
products;



- 62 -                                  Annex 6
(g) help reduce railway accidents involving RFFSA, and monitor concessionaires' accidents
with the objective of reaching internationally comparable standards;
(h) research, supervise, coordinate, and manage activities concerning railway accidents,
collecting and maintaining relevant statistical data;
(i) establish and enforce compliance with rules and guidelines concerning inspection of
equipment and installations, in order to reduce railway accidents or other potential risks that
could be detected through preventive inspections;
(j) manage, record, and disseminate the management information necessary to interact
effectively with others units; and
(k) oversee the reduction of environmental liabilities caused by RFFSA in the past.
B. Environmental Management Work Program
3.      The Environmental Management Program  was set up  in the context of RFFSA's
Environmental Policy mandate, applying modern risk management techniques as the basic strategy of
the EMSU. Many of the following activities will be executed simultaneously with RFFSA's other
activities including for the concessionaires. The program has four basic activities: (i) risk
identification; (ii) risk prevention and control; (iii) damage control; and (iv) analysis and feedback.
(a) Risk Identiflcation
4.      This activity consists of the diagnosis of potential safety problems or hazardous situations
before the environmental risks occur. It includes detection of risks, analysis, evaluation, and
establishment of control procedures. Specifically, risks would be identified through inspections as well
as through the definition of environmental risks originating from sources not directly related to railway
operations that affect the internal and external environment, employees, and assets, including:
- radioactive sources;
- Ascarel depots (Normative Instruction SEMA/STC/CRS/N 001/83, Instruction 019/81 MI,
MIC, MME);
- Ascarel in use;
- effluents contaminated by petroleum derivatives (Resolution 02/85 CNP);
- petroleum derivative spills;
- spills and ruptures of inflammable deposits;
- stored agrotoxics (Instruction 157/82 Ml - stored wood preservatives);
- pentachloro-diphenyl (PCD) deposits;
- effluents from wood-treatment factories;
- pollutant products used in work, deposits, and workshops;
- scrap containing pollutant metals such as mercury (Hg) and others;
- emanation of pollutants and unhealthy gases (Instruction 3214/78 MTb, Instruction 231/76
MI - Air Quality Standards);
- ambient dust;
- excessive noise sources (Instruction 092/80 MI - Noise Emissions, Resolution 001/90 -
CONAMA, Instruction 3214/78 MTh - Heat Sources - Instruction 3214/78MTb);



- 63 -                                 Annex 6
- deficient illumination;
- insufficient ventilation;
- solid residues (Instruction 053/79 MI, Resolution CONAMA no 006/88);
- quality of liquid effluents in rivers (Resolution CONAMA n 20/86);
- others to be detected.
(b) Risk Prevention and Control
5.      This activity consists of eliminating risks whenever possible, implementing measures to avoid
additional risks, and operationalizing the Dangerous Products Informatics System. Environmental
audits are intended to guarantee and sustain preventive procedures and risk control, ensuring that such
risks minimize damage due to control failures.
(c) Damage Control
6.      This activity includes attempts to control or minimize damage when risk controls fail. It
includes emergency plans, liaison contingency plans, equipment, simulated accident exercises, specific
trainings, and projects to repair damage.
(d) Analysis and Feedback
7.      This activity includes recording of past occurrences and periodic reporting. Data are
analyzed, failures reported, occurrences related to specific legislation, and recommendations and
programs of actions formulated, ensuring appropriate feedback to the program. It would include:
(a) collection and records of data on accidents involving environmental damage that happened
in the past 5 years, and establishment of data base;
(b) preparation and dissemination of monthly activity reports;
(c) analysis of data and reports providing recommendations and information of interest to
management;
(d) development and dissemination of details of accidents involving environmental damage or
potential damage, analyzing failures that occurred on transport systems, including risk
prevention and control;
(e) maintenance of an updated data base, and dissemination of information on federal, state,
and municipal environmental legislation, continuously verifying compliance with the
legislation through environmental audits;
(f) on the basis of an analysis of failures, development and promotion, with external entities,
of better procedures, techniques, equipment, training, etc., to enhance technical development
and operational and environmental safety;
(g) preparation of technical procedures, specifications, and standards; and
(h) through statistics,  analysis of failures and legislation, and technical improvement,
revision of the program, correction of distortions, and recommendations for remedial actions.



- 64 -                                 Annex 6
This program is consistent with Directive No. 23 of the Transport Sector Priority Environmental
Directives promulgated by GEIPOT.
C. Reorganization and Strengthening of RFFSA's Environmental Unit
(a) Reorganization
8.      The reorganization of the EMSU is necessary since rail operations will be carried out by the
future concessionaires, and the Transport Ministry plans to delegate its environmental and safety
supervision responsibilities to RFFSA.  RFFSA  will therefore be responsible for environmental
monitoring and control of all activities related to operations and investments, including reduction of
environmental liabilities. For this purpose, the unit will be reorganized as shown in the organization
chart below, and staffed with at least eight technicians who are academically qualified.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND
SAFETY MANAGEMENT UNIT
ACCIDENT RISK                 INSPECTION and CONTROL          ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITY
SUB- UNIT                         SUB- UNIT                      SUB-UNIT
The environmental liability sub-unit will perform a transitional function; it will be closed when past
environmental damage is significantly reduced.
(b) Strengthening
9.      A training program was developed to strengthen the EMSU in the short and medium term.
The project would include funding for:
(a) the participation of at least two academically-qualified professionals (Masters/PhD
courses) in environmental planning at a Brazilian university;
(b) the participation of at least two professionals in technical courses or training programs
abroad, with emphasis on safety;
(c) the implementation of specialized courses and seminars with the assistance of specialized
firms and/or international organizations, for RFFSA staff.
The total cost of the training program is estimated at about US$250,000.



- 65 -                                    Annex 6
D. Environmental Liability Settlement
10.     Since railway operations will be transferred from RFFSA to private concessionaires, it will
be necessary to identify existing environmental liabilities, and to specify the respective responsibilities
of RFFSA and the concessionaires for the existing and possible future liabilities under the concession
contracts.   In principle, RFFSA  would be responsible for the existing liabilities prior to the
concession, and the concessionaires would be responsible for all future damages.
11.     To this effect, the project would include a component for the identification and diagnosis of
environmental liabilities in the proposed six concessions. These environmental audits will cover the
following installations and operations: (i) 64 supply depots; (ii) 95 workshops; (iii) 10 wood-sleepers
treatment factories; (iv) depots and storage facilities; and (v)  free plantations.  The cost of the
environmental audits is estimated at US$700,000. The reduction of environmental liabilities, through
the recovery of destroyed areas/protection works, would be done by the concessionaires or RFFSA,
depending on the results of the negotiations of the concession contract.
E. Environmental and Operational Safety
12.     Environmental and operational safety mainly deals with: (a) handling dangerous products; (b)
urban rail crossings; and (c) level crossings.   The conditions under which dangerous goods are
transported will be analyzed on each route, considering the danger of  the cargo.  Operational
instructions will be established in each case, in order to comply with regulations. All the crossings
will be analyzed, and recommendations will be formulated to reduce the risks of accidents. The
EMSU will prepare safety regulations and instructions, and will supervise their implementation by the
concessionaires.
13.     In order to  incorporate international know-how  in this area, RFFSA  will exchange
professionals with railway operators or supervisory agencies such as the Federal Railroad
Administration in the USA, which investigates railway operators when accidents occur. The cost of
this component is estimated at US$ 200,000 equivalent.
14.     In order to fulfill the role of regulating and monitoring the environmental and safety aspects
of the concessionaires' operations, the EMSU will develop and establish a data base which will
provide information about traffic accidents (verification, statistics, cause analysis, possible solutions).
The project will include the purchase of hardware and software for this purpose, at an estimated cost of
US$50,000 equivalent.
F. Summary of Cost Estimates
15.     The estimated cost of the environmental management
component is summarized in the table herewith.                    Comnonent                  us$
Training               250,000
Environmental Surveys  700,000
Safety                 200,000
Data base               50,000
TOTAL                 1,200,000



- 66 -                                    Annex 7
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Regulatory Reform Component
A. Regulatory Policy
1.    In recognition of the critical importance of efficient transportation for national economic
growth and prosperity, the Government of Brazil is undertaking substantive steps to restructure its
railroad industry and to reform its public policy towards the sector. The government's basic premise
is that decentralized market-oriented decision-making that is freed from excessive regulatory control
and that is energized by commercial incentives is the surest means of finding and implementing
efficient and innovative solutions to problems posed by the country's transportation needs.
2.     One key element of the government's restructuring program is to move most rail activities
from governmental to private control in order to improve the incentives for internal efficiency, market
responsiveness and fiscal responsibility. Another key element of restructuring is to unleash market
forces of competition to the fullest extent that is consistent with economic efficiency and the public
interest. In this context, the government is undertaking significant regulatory reform initiatives and is
adopting a pro-competitive regulatory system which will permit firms to set independent prices at
levels that are based on demand conditions and that cover the firms' total costs when they operate
efficiently. Thus, to a much greater extent than in the past, market forces will shape the prices and
logistics of railroad services.
3.     Regulatory Commitment.  A necessary condition for effective restructuring and sustained
large-scale private investment in railroads is the country's institutional capacity to restrain arbitrary
administrative action and credibly commit to a stable regulatory regime. Indeed, one of the most
important lessons that has emerged from the experience of other countries is the need to establish a
well-defined regulatory regime as early as possible in the privatization process and to adhere to a
transparent and predictable process. This will reduce the risk premium demanded by investors and
enhance the government's ability to capture the benefits of privatization.
4.     The provision of many innovative and market-responsive rail services in Brazil will require
specific investment in infrastructure, such as upgrading of way and structure facilities, construction of
loading and transhipment facilities and building spurs of track to reach shippers' locations. These
infrastructure costs are largely sunk because the assets are of minimal value for other purposes.
Private railroads that are vulnerable to arbitrary administrative intervention can be expected to invest
less than the optimal amount. The government has a tight timetable in which to implement the
restructuring and privatization of RFFSA. Still, it is very important to make the effort and commit the
resources early on to establish a credible regulatory regime that contains substantive and procedural
constraints on arbitrary administrative action.
5.     Guiding Principles for Regulatory Reform. Two basic principles would guide the reform of
railroad regulation. The first is that the competitive market should serve as the model for regulation.
Regulatory restraints are to be imposed or continued only where market forces are insufficient to
enforce competitive behavior. In such cases, regulation should be used as a substitute for the forces of



- 67 -                                    Annex 7
the market--to induce suppliers to behave as if competition had guided their actions. The second
guiding principle is that regulatory impediments to adequate revenues should be eliminated. This does
not mean that profitability will or should be guaranteed, only that carriers should be offered the
opportunity to obtain competitive earnings.  Indeed, in a regime of deregulation without general
subsidies, one of the key elements in protecting the public interest is the avoidance of any residual
regulation which effectively prevents the achievement of financial viability by the rail network.
Regulatory reform should, therefore, provide railroads with substantial flexibility in the areas of
pricing and industry structure.
6.     Revenue Adequacy and the Need for Demand-Differentiated Pricing.  Regulation should
not impede railroads from achieving revenue adequacy. Revenues are defined to be adequate when
they are sufficient to enable the firm to attract the capital needed for maintenance, replacement,
modernization and whatever expansion demand conditions justify; that is, they are sufficient to cover
the replacement cost of the services demanded by shippers. If revenues of unsubsidized railroads are
lower than this, the deterioration and eventual disappearance of the services in question are inevitable.
7.     For prices to make sense economically they must never be incompatible with revenue
adequacy--indeed this should be embedded as a statutory requirement within the regulatory framework.
Where the costs of the enterprise are characterized by substantial fixed and common components, as is
the case in railroading, the need to earn adequate revenues generally requires rates to differ
significantly and systematically from the marginal costs of the corresponding services.  Thus, it
becomes impractical, indeed unfeasible, to require rate setting to follow the maxim that each service of
the supplying firm should be priced at a level so as to equal its marginal cost, the cost caused by
supplying an additional unit of that service.
8.     If prices, then, cannot be made to equal marginal costs, the issue that faces the regulator is
what principles should be followed to determine the deviations between prices and marginal costs that
are required for the solvency of the supplying firms. Here the goal of economic efficiency should
serve as the primary guide. It implies that prices should, optimally, deviate from the corresponding
marginal costs in proportion to the "value of the service" in question -- that is, in inverse proportion to
the elasticity of demand for that service.
9.     The reason is that consumers whose demands are relatively inelastic are those who most
effectively resist the purchase disincentive provided by a rise in price relative to marginal cost, and
who will, consequently, behave in a manner that approximates most closely the way they would if rate
setting were to follow the unattainable ideal of marginal cost pricing. In other words, the efficient
pricing solution to the requirement of revenue adequacy apportions the burden of covering fixed and
common costs on the basis of demand, assigning prices in the way that minimizes the price
disincentives to optimal behavior by suppliers and purchasers.
10.    This Ramsey (demand-differentiated) solution to the optimal pricing problem has the advantage
of both common sense and rigorous economic analysis. It is the only rational solution to the revenue
adequacy problem and it is the principle that should be embedded in the Brazilian regulatory system.
Given the natural incentives for railroads to charge Ramsey prices, there is an assurance that these
optimal pricing principles will be applied in practice if the railroads are permitted to set their prices in
accordance with the market.
11.    The Proper Role For Regulatory Intervention. Regulation has two fundamental issues to
deal with if the public interest is to be protected. First, regulation should constrain the potential



- 68 -                                     Annex 7
capacity of any carrier to preclude or impede any competition which satisfies the criterion of
efficiency. Second, even if all removable barriers to efficient competition have been eliminated,
regulation should prevent the exercise of any power on the part of the carrier derived from the natural
monopoly attributes of its activities, to extract excessive profits from shippers via prices which deviate
from efficient levels--power which cannot be eliminated by rules against anticompetitive behavior
because the carrier's ability to act this way is attributable to its natural monopoly characteristics.
12.    Maximum  Rate Reasonableness Standards--Constrained Market Pricing.  Towards those
elements of railroad activities in which competitive pressures are judged to be inadequate (that is, in
areas in which a railroad possesses market dominance or its shippers are captive) it is recommended
that a policy of "Constrained Market Pricing" (CMP) is adopted--i.e., the railroads should be permitted
to engage in Ramsey Pricing to achieve revenue sufficiency, and these Ramsey prices should be
constrained only by the overall revenue adequacy or the Stand Alone Cost (SAC) test, whichever is the
lower.
13.    Therefore, under the proposed CMP system: (a) ceilings on rates where there is market
dominance are established based on the SAC criterion--a shipper has a legitimate complaint of being
overcharged for services if and only if he can find a group of shippers of any products carried by the
railroad such that the amount they pay, plus the amount he pays, exceeds what they would have to pay
to an efficient entrant specializing in providing those services with no barriers to entry; alternatively, a
subset of prices charged by a railroad violates the SAC ceiling if any group of shippers who pay those
prices could be served at lower cost by a hypothetical entrant specializing in providing the services
purchased by the group; and (b) rate floors are designed to prevent cross-subsidies by reflecting the
same economic incremental costs that would set the floors on competitive rates.  In between these
floors and ceilings, railroads should be free to select their own rates based on their assessment of
market demand.
14.    Under this regulatory system, rail carriers' rates for the transportation of market dominant
traffic would be subject to three separate constraining factors. First, a shipper could not be charged
more than the stand-alone cost of providing service to it.  Second, a captive shipper would not be
required to bear the cost of demonstrated management inefficiencies in the carriers' operations and
pricing structure. Third, rate increases would generally only be permitted to the extent needed for the
carrier to reach and maintain revenue adequacy. CMP will, therefore, provide the necessary protection
for captive shippers, while providing railroads the opportunity to earn adequate revenues.
15.    Constrained Market Pricing is a practical and economically sound method of applying
competitive pricing principles to a regulatory framework. The objectives of CMP can be simply
stated. A captive shipper should not be required to pay more than is necessary for the carrier(s)
involved to earn adequate revenues. Nor should it pay more than is necessary for efficient service. A
captive shipper should not bear the costs of any facilities or services from which it derives no benefit.
Responsibility for payment for facilities or services which are shared (to its benefit) by other shippers
should be apportioned according to the demand elasticities of the various shippers. Thus railroads
would be given incentives to ensure that competitive traffic contributes as much as possible toward
these costs. Finally, changes in the rate structure should not be so precipitous as to cause severe
economic dislocations.
16.    Taken together, these constraints should ensure that a carrier does not use its market
dominance to charge its captive shippers more than they should have to pay for efficient rail service.
A shipper will not be asked to subsidize long-term excess capacity, fund revenue shortfalls which could



- 69 -                                    Annex 7
be eliminated by pricing non-captive traffic at the full level demand would support, or bear the costs
associated with avoidable operating inefficiencies. Carriers will be effectively limited in the rates they
can charge on captive traffic and will have the necessary incentive to maximize the net revenue
contribution from competitive traffic. Cross-subsidization from other shippers is effectively precluded.
Therefore, the rate structure resulting from the interaction of market forces and the above constraints
is likely to produce rates that are economically efficient and fair to all shippers.
17.    The guidelines offer the flexibility to approach the rate analysis from various perspectives: (1)
the appropriate level and minimum cost of efficient service to the captive shipper (in the stand-alone
cost analysis);  (2) the appropriate level of carrier revenue needs (in the revenue adequacy
examination); (3) the other available means of meeting (or eliminating) those revenue needs (through
the scrutiny of the carrier's efficiency); and (4)  the public interest in minimizing economic
disruptions.
18.    Competitive Access. "Competitive access", including the regulatory prescription of rate and
service terms for joint-line rail movements, becomes an issue only when a market dominant carrier
controlling a "bottleneck" segment attempts to engage in a predatory price squeeze or refusal to deal
with a more efficient connecting carrier for the purpose of preventing the connecting carrier from
participating in the movement. Only in that circumstance would there ever be any justification for
regulatory intervention to require the bottleneck carrier to take steps that maintain or increase the
traffic handled by the connecting carrier. Such an intervention is never justified, however, to preserve
a market position that would otherwise be lost by a connecting carrier because joint-line service is less
efficient.
19.    The primary challenge for public policy is to set a level and structure of access prices which
promote dynamic efficiency through efficient entry and investment decisions while enabling the owner
of the network to remain financially solvent. The terms of access should not distort the process by
which prices are adapted to consumer preferences and demands for services.  Prices should be
sufficiently high to be compensatory (at least cover the long-run incremental cost of the use of the
network by the entrant), yet not so high as to preclude efficient operations by the entrant. Regulation
should, therefore, ensure that there is sufficient pressure on the owner of the infrastructure to operate
in an efficient manner, but that no unnecessary duplication of network construction takes place. At the
same time, the opportunities for competition to work effectively would be enhanced by the availability
on an unbundled and non-discriminatory basis of any basic network element, or any collection of
functions, that were needed by the entrant.
20.    Reciprocal switching agreements should be encouraged when they are practical and in the
public interest, or are necessary to provide competitive rail service--reciprocal switching could provide
shippers with an avenue of relief for inadequate railroad service. However, railroads should be
permitted to cancel joint rates and abrogate interswitching agreements when they can demonstrate that
such reciprocal arrangements are detrimental to their financial performance.
21.    Contract Rates.  Carriers should be permitted to negotiate shipper contracts with confidential
terms and conditions--railways and shippers should be permitted to enter into contracts which would
keep confidential the rates to be charged, the conditions relating to the traffic to be moved, and the
manner in which service obligations are to be fulfilled. The benefits of confidential contracts accrue to
both shippers and carriers. Shippers may negotiate for lower rates and for guarantee of a specified
level of service. Carriers may be able to improve the efficiency of their service since the contract



- 70 -                                     Annex 7
should assure a predictable flow of traffic, and further foreclose of competition for its term. The
improved efficiency of resource utilization should also be beneficial to the economy at large.
22.    Structural Flexibility--Line Abandonments.  Public policy should recognize the need of the
Brazilian rail carriers to streamline their systems and, therefore, should facilitate the abandonment of
uneconomic lines. It is highly desirable that strict time limits are imposed on the line abandonment
process.
B. Implementation
23.    In practice,  regulation of the railway concessions has three main aspects:   (a) economic
regulation including tariffs, division of tariffs, and service or track abandonment;  (b) safety
regulation; and (c) monitoring and supervision of track condition.
(a) Economic Regulation
24.    Given Brazilian conditions in the transport sector, competition will be the best regulator and,
where adequate competition exists, regulation is generally not needed.  In addition, since the
competitors of railways are private and essentially unregulated, private operation and the lightest
possible regulation must be the basic model for railway concessions as well. Second, each concession
has unique market and service characteristics, which will determine terms and conditions under which
regulation should be formulated and administered. Specifically, subject to broad controls over anti-
monopolistic behavior, each concession will have different and appropriate terms governing regulations
over tariffs. Third, in general, the Government intends to restrict its role to the minimum actions
needed to protect the public interest and leave the concessionaires to operate as much like normal
businesses as is possible so that they can compete successfully with private trucking, pipeline and
water transport.
25.    In general, railway enterprises shall be free to set their prices and services (quality and
quantity) in such a way as to meet shipper needs and maximize the railway's total earnings. While this
approach (Ramsay Pricing) is known to produce a wide spread of relationships between prices and
costs of service, it also minimizes the total cost of transportation to the country. Tables or charts of
"Reference" or maximum rates shall generally be considered to establish those levels below which
tariffs are by definition reasonable and not subject to protest. DTF shall have the burden of adjusting
the reference tariffs to take into account changes in costs or other circumstances so that there will
always be a public indication of the target levels shown in the reference tariffs.
26.    The guiding principles will be subject to several exceptions:
(a)    prices below long-run variable costs (long-run variable costs are the costs
which change with respect to the traffic being priced) are predatory and are prohibited.
If challenged, the concessionaire will have the burden of showing that the proposed
tariffs are not below their variable costs.
(b)    contract tariffs (voluntary agreements between railway and shipper which
include volume guarantees, quality guarantees, or other services beyond normal
common carrier obligations for a single wagon load of freight) may be confidential and
are not subject to regulation except that they must be filed with DTF and are available



- 71 -                                    Annex 7
to DTF only for confidential use in case of shipper allegations of discriminatory
pricing. Contract tariffs may contain provisions for adjusting prices in accord with
conditions defined in the tariff. Contract tariffs are not governed by the reference
tariffs because they reflect special conditions not represented in the standard conditions
assumed in the reference tariffs.
(c)    arbitrary discrimination.  Price discrimination based on railway whim or
shipper identity and no other factors is prohibited.
(d)    protecting the "captive shipper". Under certain circumstances, such as lack
of adequate commodity source or transport competition as a result of location or
commodity characteristics, the shipper can be said to be "captive" to the railway.
Under these circumstances, and in the absence of a voluntary contract, and if the
reference tariff is inappropriately high because of the volume of traffic being offered
by the shipper, DTF may be asked to consider whether a railway tariff should be
prescribed. In general, when setting a maximum tariff for a captive shipper, DTF
should be guided by the principle of "stand-alone" costs; that is, what would it cost to
provide the services if the shipper (or shipper group) in question stood alone and did
not benefit from the economies and contributions of other shippers. In practice, stand-
alone cost can often be approximated by permitting a shipper (or shipper groups) to
operate their own trains and pay a trackage use fee to the concessionaire which covers
the long-run variable cost of their use of track and track capacity.
(e)    protecting the "captive railway". Where a single shipper, or consortium of
shippers, controls the railway, different possible abuses exist: (i) the tariffs for
shippers outside the consortium might be forced up in order to reduce tariffs for
consortium members; (ii) a dominant member of the consortium might attempt to force
its tariffs down at the expense of other members of the consortium, or;  (iii)
consortium members may focus on their traffic and ignore opportunities for new or
outside business. If the railway is dominated by a shipper/owner, DTF may ask: 1)
whether the railway's tariffs are generally high enough to permit adequate coverage of
operating, maintenance and capital expansion costs; if not, members of the consortium
should be required to pay higher tariffs;  2) whether the non-members of the
consortium are being charged tariffs which reflect arbitrary discrimination; if yes, then
their tariffs may be lowered to reasonable levels; 3) whether the tariff decisions of the
consortium are adequately insulated from the interests of a single investor; if not, DTF
may require that the consortium institute an agreement to ensure non-discriminatory
pricing among consortium members); or, 4) whether the consortium has organized the
railway in a way that will promote attention to non-consortium business possibilities.
The impact of many of these potential issues can be alleviated by a requirement that
shipper-owned consortia (if any) must insulate the business decisions of the railway
from the individual interests of the shippers; but this provision is difficult to enforce.
The following paragraphs provide an assessment of each of the proposed concessions with regard to
regulatory requirements.
27.    Centro-Leste, Sul, and Oeste.  Potential concessionaires will be given tables of maximum
"reference" rates, based on wagonload traffic moving various distances, and generally related to tariffs
in force today.  These tables will be different for each concession and for each of the major



- 72 -                                   Annex 7
commodities. So long as a proposed tariff is below the appropriate level in the reference table, it will
not generally be subject to further review.
28.    Nordeste.  Bidding will commence subject to a table of reference rates. If, however, this
concession turns out to be a "negative concession" (i.e., the Government must pay to provide for its
operation), then the Government will reserve the right to intervene directly in tariffs in return for
appropriate modification in the fee to operate.
29.    Tubarao is a single shipper, single commodity carrier.  Either Eletrosul should be the
concessionaire, or it may want to assist in formation of a concessionaire, which would carry coal under
contract to Eletrosul: in this case no further tariff regulation would be needed. If Eletrosul does not
control the concessionaire, then a maximum tariff which permits the concessionaire to earn a
reasonable rate of return under efficient operation should be prescribed in advance before the
concession is put on offer. After this point, very little regulation appears necessary.
30.    Sudeste poses a unique challenge since such a large part of its traffic and revenues (over 80
percent of Ton-Km and 70 percent of its revenue) comes from a very limited number of iron ore, steel
and cement producers and shippers. Among these companies, about 75 percent of the traffic and 60
percent of the revenue come from a single iron ore producer (MBR). This poses several issues: 1)
would an MBR competitor be permitted to bid for and acquire a significant ownership position in this
concession, which could create the potential for competitive abuse in the shipment of iron ore from
Minas Gerais to the Atlantic ports? 2) will MBR and the other iron ore/steel companies be permitted to
form a consortium and bid for the concession as a group? If so, could the share of ownership of any
single owner be restricted? and 3) how could the tariffs for these "captive shippers" or their "captive
railway" be regulated?
31.   In many countries, including the US, railways are not permitted to haul their own commodities
in order to avoid the potential abuses discussed above. Using this approach, no shipper, including
CVRD and MBR, would be allowed to have a significant ownership share in the Sudeste concession.
If the concession owner is not a shipper consortium, then, along with a reference table of rates (of
which the iron and steel commodities will obviously be crucial and will justify great care in
preparation), the concessionaire could be required to permit any of the iron/steel shippers (or groups
thereof) to run their own private trains in return for a specified fee (per train-km, gross ton-km, or
other) defined at the outset of the concessioning process. This would cap the exercise of market power
and would constitute an approach to stand alone costing.
32.   If shipper groups are permitted to bid, then it appears desirable that no one shipper, (neither
CVRD nor MBR) have a controlling ownership share in the consortium, but either could well be a
minority member of the Sudeste concessionaire group. In this light, one acceptable outcome would be
for all of the iron/steel shippers (plus any others who are interested) to form a consortium to be one of
the bidding groups, with the group structured so that no shipper has a controlling position in the
concession. If the shipper consortium wins the concession, the issue of regulation would be relatively
simple: all iron and steel transport charges for each shipper should be made available to DTF (but not,
necessarily, to the public) and all differences in charges to each shipper should be readily justifiable to
DTF in terms of the volumes, costs and quality of services provided. In addition, it is possible that a
cement, steel and iron ore-dominated Sudeste consortium might be indifferent to developing
merchandise traffic along the Rio/Sepetiba/Sao Paulo line; in this case, one could consider breaking
Sudeste into two concessions, one specialized in iron ore and steel, and another focusing on
merchandise traffic to/from  Santos/Sao Paulo.  Alternatively, in cooperation with the FEPASA



- 73 -                                  Annex 7
concessioning, trackage rights could be given to the FEPASA broad gauge concessionaire to operate on
the line from Sao Paulo to Sepetiba and Rio.
33.   Two critical issues remain for resolution. First, under the current Real Plan, rail tariffs are
externally controlled by agencies not involved in railway concessioning: the new concessionaires will
have to be exempted from these price controls. Second, the reference tariffs must not be interpreted as
fixed numbers independent of changes in other values in the economy. Instead, the reference tariffs
should be understood as being stated in Reals as of the date of the signing of the concession. Proposed
new public tariffs would then be considered to be under the reference level if they are lower than the
reference levels when adjusted to the values pertaining as of the date of the concession contract.
34.   Divisions of Tariffs Among Concessionaires. There is very little traffic moving among or
between the proposed concessions -- in particular, Tubarao is physically isolated, and Nordeste is
effectively isolated by the distance. There may be significant potential for growth in traffic among the
new concessions and with FEPASA, CVRD, FERRONORTE AND FERROESTE. Thus, some
mechanism for setting tariffs for inter-concession traffic is needed in the case where the individual
concessionaires cannot agree on a joint tariff or the division between or among them.  Several
approaches are available: the best approach is that joint tariffs be a matter of negotiation among the
concessionaires involved and either FEPASA or CVRD. Concessionaires could be required by DTF to
establish joint tariffs at a level equal to or less than the sum of their individual concessions' reference
tariffs for the distance and commodity group involved. It is not clear whether there is, or needs to be,
a mechanism for imposing tariffs and divisions of tariffs on traffic interchanged with FEPASA or
CVRD.
35.    Trackage rights. The Government may also want to retain the right to prescribe trackage
rights, and charges therefor, for concessionaires to operate over the tracks of others in the event that
the growth of rail traffic is being impeded by the inability of concessionaires to establish joint rates and
deliver high quality coordinated services. This right might also be extended to existing, or even new,
concessionaires who wish to engage in long haul intermodal services. In any event, though, the
trackage rights should be restricted to point-to-point services involving major markets, and should not
necessarily be extended to cover all points along a rail line.
36.    Abandonment of Service or Trackage. In principle, the Government intends to require that
concessionaires provide a minimum level (or levels) of service over the network to be concessioned.
This minimum might be one train per day, or one train per week, or service on demand by a shipper,
or whatever else is appropriate to the Government's objectives. Action by a concessionaire which has
the effect of falling below the specified levels of service will require DTF permission, which will not
normally be granted unless the lines in question can be shown to be uneconomic and unless all
alternatives to service (tariff increases, contract operation by others, etc.) can be shown to be
unfeasible, and unless the losses on the line constitute an undue financial burden on the concessionaire.
In some cases such as a few lines on the Nordeste concession, the Govermnent may either transfer
certain uneconomic lines to local governments in advance of the concessioning, or may offer
concessionaires a choice at the outset as to whether or not certain lines will be operated by the
concessionaire.
(b) Safety Regulation
37.    The public welfare will require that the concessionaires operate safely. MT/DTF will delegate
the supervisors of safety regulations to RFFSA, which will inspect the operations of the



- 74 -                                  Annex 7
concessionaires to ensure that track and equipment are maintained adequately, and that safe operating
practices are followed. The project would include technical assistance and training of RFFSA staff for
this purpose (Annex 6).
(c) Supervision of Track Conditions
38.   The terms of the concessions will require that tracks be maintained to specified quality levels
throughout the life of the concession in order to ensure that, if the concession is not renewed, the
Government will receive a railway that is in adequate condition for a new concessionaire to operate.
This will require that RFFSA inspect the track at appropriate intervals to verify that the track is being
maintained in the conditions specified in the concession contracts.
C. The Regulatory Reform Component
39.    The  Regulatory Reform Component of the proposed project comprises the development,
monitoring and evaluation of the Brazilian railway regulation, reorganization of the railway regulatory
and supervisory agency (MT/DTF), and the establishment of a dispute settlement commission
(COFER). Considerable attention was dedicated to learn the lessons from the U.S.A. experience
(Staggers Act) and the Canadian experience (Freedom To Move) and to illustrate to the Brazilian
decision-makers the impact of well designed regulatory policies.
40.    The railway economic regulation is being redesigned to: (i) allow  the concessionaires
maximum freedom to set tariffs on services which face competition, including differentiating them to
account for individual shippers' needs, and entering into confidential contracts with shippers; (ii) limit
the role of the Government to constrain the tariffs which a concessionaire sets to captive shippers, over
whom the concessionaire has monopoly power, by the stand-alone costs of the shipper's service; (iii)
authorize abandonment of lines or services which are proved to be financially not viable; and (iv)
facilitate inter-concession traffic . The concession contracts would reflect the specific regulatory
requirements of each concession and their different market and service characteristics. Presidential
Decree No. 1852, issued on March 4, 1996, revised the 1985 rail transport regulation. The project
would include technical assistance and training of MT staff to help develop, implement, and monitor
the regulation. Because the Concession Law requires setting up maximum tariffs, concession contracts
would include such maximum tariff tables which, in practice, would not constrain the concessionaires'
freedom. However, agreement would be sought during loan negotiations that the Government will, by
a date to be determined, review the relevant legislation and regulations regarding rail transport tariffs,
and inform the Bank of the decision and implementation of any executed modifications; and develop
appropriate mechanisms, criteria, and guidelines to implement the captive shipper rate and the line
abandonment regulations prior to concessioning the Sudeste and Nordeste systems respectively
41.    The Transport Ministry's Department of Rail Transport (DTF) would be strengthened to
effectively implement the revised regulation and to supervise the concession contracts, with the
exception of the technical, environmental and safety-related aspects of such supervision, which would
be delegated to RFFSA.   An independent Rail Transport Commission (COFER), including
representatives from the concessionaires, shippers and from the Government, would be established to
resolve disputes between the concessionaires and the Government, and between shippers and the
concessionaires. The establishment of COFER was approved by the President through a temporary
executive measure (Medida Provisoria).



- 75 -                                 Annex 8
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Financial Restructuring and Settlement Component
A. RFFSA's Debts
1.    During most of its history, RFFSA has generated negative returns on its operations. These
persistent operating losses reflect the pervasive organizational inefficiencies and low productivity, lack
of commercial freedom, lack of market-oriented management structures, failure to significantly rationalize
operations by exiting from uneconomic low-density lines and shedding excess labor, and continuing
government-imposed obligations that rendered the railroad uncompetitive in the face of the growing
sophistication of road transport. Since RFFSA did not generate sufficient revenues to meet its payment
obligations, RFFSA has been accumulating payment arrears which have been growing rapidly. RFFSA's
debt amounted to almost US$3.0 billion by the end of December 1995. The long term financial debts
are relatively small. The debt consists mainly of rapidly increasing short term liabilities to Governrment
entities and to the staff pension fund.
2.    Financial Debts. The long term debt was about US$360 million equivalent at the end of 1995,
including accumulated unpaid interest of about US$60 million equivalent. It consists mainly of the
outstanding balance of Bank loan No. 2563-BR, which helped finance the Federal Railway - Export
Corridor - Project, and of some outstanding debts with BNDES and foreign banks.
3.    Debts with the Staff Pension Fund. Almost all RFFSA employees, as well as many employees
of other railways, participate in the Railway Pension Fund (REFER). RFFSA has accumulated large
arrears with the Pension Fund, which totaled over US$360 million equivalent at the end of 1995. Since
it is an important objective of the proposed project to reduce the staff of RFFSA, in particular through
early retirement, the outstanding debts with REFER need to be urgently settled so that the fund can honor
the acquired pension rights of RFFSA employees.
4.    Debts with Government Entities. The debts with Government entities consist of accumulated
payment arrears, including interest on such arrears. These debts totaled about US$2.0 billion equivalent
at the end of 1995, and are increasing rapidly. The accumulated debt with the National Social Security
Institute (INSS) represents almost half of the total, with about US$950 million at the end of 1995. The
balance of the debt to Government entities represents unpaid taxes such as social contributions, including
the "Finsocial", FGTS, and PASEP social funds (about US$700 million equivalent), the ICMS tax (about
US$270 million), and the income tax (about US$110 million).
5.    Pending Actions. A number of legal actions by creditors or labor are still pending, which could
result into further liabilities.
B. RFFSA's Assets
6.    RFFSA's assets total about US$16 billion equivalent in accounting terms. The rail assets, which,
on the basis of a preliminary identification, are estimated at about US$12 billion equivalent, would be
leased to the concessionaires. The non-rail assets, which consists essentially of land and buildings which



- 76 -                                   Annex 8
are not used for operational purposes any longer, are estimated at about US$4 billion in accounting terms.
RFFSA management, however, estimates the market value of the non-rail assets at only about US$1.0
billion.
7.     Most of the non-rail assets, however, cannot be sold in the short term due to lack of regularized
ownership documents and as a result of past judicial decisions on legal actions by creditors, mainly the
INSS. The project will include funds to contract a Real Estate Management (REM) firm, which, inter-
alia, will make a detailed assessment of the market value of the stock of non-rail assets, and will identify
the requirements to regularize the documentation.
C. Financial Restructuring and Settlement
8.     RFFSA will continue to own its rail assets, which will be leased to the concessionaires. RFFSA's
revenues from the leasing of rail assets and from any sale or lease of non-rail assets are to be used to
repay as much as possible of RFFSA's debts, and to guarantee against possible future labor and
environmental liabilities. However, no decision has yet been made by the Government regarding the
treatment of RFFSA's debts, nor regarding the financing of the residual public service obligations in the
Northeast, which could be funded either from RFFSA's revenues, by the National Treasury (against
revenues from the sale of the railway concessions), and/or by state and local governments. Some debts
to the Government could be settled by accounting means, since the Government has not generally made
the normalization payments to RFFSA for public service obligations. But other debts to Government
entities, including the debt to the National Social Security Institute (INSS), would have to be rescheduled.
9.     The Government undertook to develop a plan to restructure and to settle RFFSA's debts. The
plan, however, cannot be finalized until the first auctions are completed and until the assessment of and
the plan for the management and sale of non-rail assets are prepared (para 11). RFFSA has prepared a
tentative debt restructuring plan in order to develop a tentative financial forecast for the residual company
(Annex 9). The Government would be comrnmitted to complete the plan, including the terms and
conditions of the rescheduled debts and a revised financial forecast for the residual RFFSA, and to
forward it to the Bank for comments by a date to be determined, consistently with the timetables for
concessioning and for the market valuation of RFFSA's non-rail assets. However, the Government would
have to make an earlier decision regarding the rescheduling of RFFSA's debt with the INSS, in order to
enable RFFSA to initiate the sale of non-rail assets as soon as possible.
10.   In order to effectively manage and settle its debts within the plan to be determined by the
Government, RFFSA will establish a Settlement Division (SD) with appropriate terms of reference
(regimento interno), and transfer to this new division all responsibilities to manage and settle the
company's debts and labor liabilities, and to manage and sell its non-rail assets (Annex 11). The Head
of the SD would be accountable to meet the agreed asset sale and debt reduction targets (Table 2,
Annex 11). RFFSA will also enter into a contract with a specialized Real Estate Management firm
(REM) to help develop and implement a plan to manage and sell its non-rail assets. A portion of the
REM's remuneration would be subject to meeting the asset sale targets. The project would include funds
for the REM contract and for the purchase of the necessary computer hardware and software.
11.    The terms of reference for the REM  contract would include the following main tasks:
(a) classification of non-rail assets by type; (b) assessment of market value of the stock, on the basis of
sample assessments; (c) analysis of documentation and identification of requirements for regularization;
(d) definition of plan of action, including timetable and targets, in order to maximize revenues from the
sale of RFFSA's non-rail assets; (e) identification of assets which could be brought to sale rapidly, and



- 77 -                                   Annex 8
preparation for sale; (f) assistance to SD in the selection, contracting and supervision of real estate agents
to market the assets for sale; and (g) management and monitoring of the asset sale program. The
remuneration of the REM would be partly based on sales. The fixed part of the remuneration is
tentatively estimated at US$2.4 million equivalent.
12.    The present targets for sales of non-rail assets have been based on RFFSA management's present
estimates of their market value (Table 2, Annex 11). They would be revised as necessary on the basis
of the results of the REM's assessment and plan of action.



- 78 -                                   Annex 9
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Financial Analysis
A - Proposed Concessions
(a) Introduction
1.    RFFSA has prepared financial forecasts for each of the proposed concession in order to assess
the financial viability of these concessions. BNDES is also preparing financial forecasts in order to
determine the minimum  price for each concession.  BNDES' forecasts, however, will remain
confidential until the publication of the concession bidding documents.
2.     RFFSA's forecasts, which are presented in the following paragraphs, are based on RFFSA's
estimates of the potential demand for rail transport which are sumnmarized in Annex 3, and on the
corresponding traffic projections which are presented in Table I hereafter. They are slightly different
from, and generally marginally higher than, BNDES' traffic forecasts. The difference, however,
would not affect the main conclusions of the analyses. RFFSA's forecasts also take into account the
impacts of the proposed staff retrenchment and emergency rehabilitation programs on the future
concessions' operational expenses and productivity. As it can be seen in the following sections, the
Oeste, Centro-Leste and Sul concessions could rapidly become profitable, as soon as 1997 or 1998.
The Sudeste concession will become increasingly profitable, while the Tubarao concession could
continue to be profitable. The forecast for the Nordeste concession shows that, in the short term, the
Government is likely to have to pay subsidies to the concessionaire in order to offer adequate railway
services and affordable prices.
Table 1 - RFFSA Traffic Projections
(millions of ton-Km)
1996   1997     1998    1999   2000
Oeste                2,041   2,415    2,788    3,081   3,374
Centro-Leste         7,060  7,771    8,482    8,876   9,269
Tubarao                106    108      111      115    118
Sul                  8,660  9,819   10,979   11,396  11,812
Sudeste             22,253  24,208   26,162   28,281  30,400
Nordeste               886    971    1,055    1,098   1,141



- 79 -                                         Annex 9
(b) Oeste Concession
3.      Because of the need for fuels in the hinterlands, and the rapid growth of Brazil's agricultural
and mineral production for export, there is a strong growth potential for Oeste's traffic. The tariffs on
this type of traffic, particularly fuels, are relatively profitable. Also, Oeste is the most likely link with
the "Oriental" concession in Bolivia, a linkage which might generate significant traffic when the
Bolivian railway concession is in private operation. The traffic is expected to increase from about 2.0
billion ton-km in the recent years (1992-1995), to about 3.3 billion ton-km in year 2000. Assuming
that average revenue can be maintained at about R$25 per thousand ton-kin, the concession net results
should change from recent annual deficits of about R$20 million under RFFSA operation, to
substantial net income from 1998 onwards (Table 2).
Table 2 - Financial Forecast of Oeste Concession
Year                           1994       1995        1996       1997        1998        1999       2000
Expenses                     66,511     52,961      48,644     44,341      46,152      47,639     49,915
Labor, inc1 benefits       45,868      38,158      32,774     27,390      28,485     29,265      30,810
Fuels                        8,949      7,009       7,254      7,508       7,771       8,043      8,324
"Tiquete"                   4,298       4,039       3,469      2,899       3,015      3,136       3,261
Diarias                      1,719        837        854         871         888        906         924
ICMS                          462         344        435         531        632         699         765
Other Materials             2,009         930       1,465      2,000       2,100      2,205       2,315
Other Services               1.441        630       1,365      2,100       2,205      2,315       2,431
Utilities and Services        967         652        659         665         672        678         685
Other Current Expenses        798         362        369         377         384        392         400
Revenues                     43,047     40,496      50,781     61,994      75,235      83,141     91,048
Transport Revenues         40,273      38,994      49,302     60,188      71,652     79,182      86,712
Other revenues               1,916        570       1,479      1,806       3,583       3,959      4,336
Normalization                 858         932          0           0           0          0           0
Operating Results           -23,464     -12,465      2,137      17,653     29,083      35,502     41,133
Maintenance of Rolling           0       6,022       7,226      8,430       9,634      10,839      12,043
Stock
Economic Result             -23.464    -18,487      -5,089      9,223      19,449      24,663     29,090
Cost of "Canon"                  0           0       1,000       1,000      1,000       4,326      6,463
Net Result                  -23,464    -18,487      -6,089      8,223      18,449      20,337     22,627
Ton-Km (000,000)             1,945      1,668       2,041      2,415       2,788       3,081      3,374
Average revenue              20.7        23.4        24.2       24.9        25.7        25.7       25.6
(R$/000 T-Km)



-80-                                          Annex 9
(c) Centro-Leste Concession
4.      The Centro-Leste concession has perhaps the best potential for sharing in Brazil's industrial
growth, but it will lose petroleum traffic to a pipeline in the near future, which puts a cap on its near
term growth and profits. Nevertheless, it appears that, even after the loss of petroleum traffic is
assimilated, Centro-Leste will enjoy a well-diversified and relatively stable traffic mix. Total traffic is
expected to increase from 7 billion ton-km in recent years to about 9 billion ton-km by year 2000.
Assuming an average revenue of about R$32 per thousand ton-km (down from R$38 in 1994), the
concession could still generate a substantial net income as early as 1997-98.
Table 3 - Financial Forecast of Centro-Leste Concession
Year                          1994       1995       1996        1997       1998       1999       2000
Expenses                   277,928    237,153    209,670    182,199    189,782    197,448    205,425
Labor, incl benefits      182,717    158,062    121,186      84,310     87,683     91,190      94,838
Fuels                      36,874     28,003     28,978      29,998     31,064     32,178      33,345
"Tiquete"                  17,141     17,473     13,397      9,320       9,693     10,081      10,484
Diarias                     4,122      2,742      2,797      2,853       2,910      2,968       3,027
ICMS                       13,681     11,235     12,315      13,359     14,367     15,178      16,001
Other Materials             6,208      5,977     11,739      17,500     18,315     19,172      20,075
Other Services              7,062      5,870     11,335      16,800     17,554     18,345      19,176
Utilities and Services      3,525      2,319      2,342      2,366       2,389      2,413       2,437
Other Current Expenses      6,598      5,472      5,581      5,693       5,807      5,923       6,042
Revenues                   282,799    231,563    234,394    254,265    278,761    294,489    310,465
Transport Revenues       258,724    207,612    227,567    246,859    265,487    280,466    295,681
Other Revenues             11,388     12,722      6,827      7,406      13,274     14,023      14,784
Normalization              12,687     11,229          0          0          0           0          0
Operating Results            4,871     -5,590     24,724      72,066     88,979     97,041     105,040
Maintenance of Rolling           0     16,729     20,074      23,420     26,766     30,111      33,457
Stock
Economic Result              4,871    -22,319      4,650      48,646     62,213     66,930      71,583
Cost of "Canon"                 0           0      5,300      12,928     17,844     22,969      27,033
Net Result                   4,871    -22,319       -650      35,718     44,369     43,961      44,550
Ton-Km (000,000)            6,809      6,349      7,060      7,771       8,482      8,876       9,269
Average revenue              38.0       32.7       32.2        31.8       31.3       31.6        31.9
(R$/000 T-Km)



- 81 -                                        Annex 9
(d) Sudeste Concession
5.      The proposed Sudeste concession carries over 52 percent of RFFSA's traffic on only 8 percent
of RFFSA's total track length. Further, over 80 percent of Sudeste's traffic (in ton-km) is driven by
iron ore and other steel industry inputs and products produced by a single iron ore company (MBR, 61
percent) and two steel companies (21 percent). Thus, at least the North-South route of Sudeste is
actually an integral part of the production process for these companies and is not actually a general
carrier like most of the other concessions. RFFSA reports have consistently shown Sudeste to be
profitable on a full cost basis. The future looks even more positive.   According to RFFSA's
projections, which take into account the most recent development plans of the industry, total traffic
should increase from about 20 billion ton-km in 1995 to about 30 billion ton-km by year 2000. With
the proposed staff reductions and rehabilitation of locomotives, the concession's profits should rapidly
increase as shown in Table 4 herewith.
Table 4 - Financial Forecast of Sudeste Concession
Year                              1994       1995       1996       1997        1998       1999       2000
Expenses                       420,662    343,141    316,755    290,584    304,256    318,267    332,885
Labor, incl benefits         209,988    182,516    141,423    100,329    104,342    108,516    112,857
Fuels                         57,378      47,279     49,321     51,454      53,680     56,003     58,429
"Tiquete"                     14,398      15,246     11,813      8,381      8,716       9,065      9,427
Diarias                        4,757       2,583      2,635      2,687       2,741      2,796      2,852
ICMS                           16,656     15,855     18,007     20,269      22,641     24,840     27,094
Other Materials               37,295      21,968     29,984     38,000      40,240     42,613     45,126
Other Services                36,492      18,730     23,865     29,000      30,660     32,416     34,275
Utilities and Services         4,905       3,666      3,703      3,740       3,777      3,815      3,853
Other Current Expenses        38,793      35,298     36,004     36,724      37,459     38,203     38,972
Revenues                       411,646    385,421    430,777    484,890    552,149    605,779    660,744
Transport Revenues           400,278    368,245    418,230    470,767    525,856    576,932    629,280
Other revenues                 11,368     17,176     12,547      14,123     26,293     28,847     31,464
Normalization
Operating Results               -9,016     42,280    114,022    194,306    247,893    287,512    327,859
Maintenance of Rolling Stock        0      25,223     30,267      35,312     40,356     45,401      50,445
Economic Result                 -9,016     17,057     83,755    158,994    207,537    242,111    277,414
Cost of "Canon"                     0           0     73,808     85,140    107,758    126,309    153,826
Net Result                      -9,016     17,057      9,947     73,854      99,779    115,802    123,588
Ton-Km (000,000)              20,237      20,299     22,253     24,208      26,162     28,281     30,400
Average revenue                  19.8       18.1       18.8        19.4       20.1       20.1       20.7
(R$/000 T-Km)



- 82 -                                        Annex 9
(e) Sul Concession
6.      The Sul concession already has a broad mix of traffic, which is strongly rooted in the
agricultural sector, primarily in soybean exports, and in petroleum products. Sal, also, would be one
of the inimediate beneficiaries of the rail traffic which is developing as a result of the Mercosul trade
agreement. The Mesopotamico concession in Argentina and RFFSA's Sul system are already
developing international traffic from Argentina to Brazil, mostly on containers. RFFSA's forecasts
suggest a strong market for them. Overall, traffic is expected to increase from about 9 billion ton-km
in 1994-1995 to almost 12 billion by year 2000. The system, which has had substantial deficits under
RFFSA operation, should become profitable as early as 1997-98, after the completion of the staff
retrenchment and emergency rehabilitation programs (Table 5).
Table 5- Financial Forecast of Sul Concession
Year                             1994        1995       1996       1997        1998       1999       2000
Expenses                       301,732    241,358    212,378    183,160    190,024    196,811    203,824
Labor, inci benefits          173,686    151,900    118,945     85,991      89,430     93,007     96,728
Fuels                         40,562      30,307     31,065     31,841      32,637     33,453     34,290
"Tiquete"                     14,444      15,466     12,111      8,755       9,106      9,470      9,849
Diarias                        4,011       2,074      2,115      2,158       2,201      2,245      2,290
ICMS                           18,078     15,653     17,113     18,315      19,260     19,904     20,543
Other Materials                18,962      9,165     11,733     14,300      14,872     15,467      16,086
Other Services                20,812      10,687     13,094     15,500      16,120     16,765      17,435
Utilities and Services         4,166       2,623      2,649      2,676       2,702      2,730      2,757
Other Current Expenses         7,011       3,483      3,553      3,624       3.696      3,770      3,846
Revenues                      276,866    219,308    233,103    249,481    267,449    276,398    285,260
Transport Revenues           260,164    207,011    226,314    242,215    254,713    263,236    271,676
Other Revenues                 15,071     11,181      6,789      7,266      12,736     13,162     13,584
Normalization                   1,631      1,116          0          0          0           0          0
Operating Results              -24,866    -22,050     20,725     66,321      77,425     79,587      81,436
Maintenance of Rolling Stock        0      19,201     23,041     26,881      30,721     34,561     38,401
Economic Result                -24,866    -41,251     -2,316     39,440      46,704     45,026     43,035
Cost of "Canon"                     0           0      6.900      15,632     20,272     24,866      29,721
Net Result                     -24,866    -41,251     -9,216     23,808      26,432     20,160      13,314
Ton-Km (000,000)               9,000       7,500      8,660      9,819      10,979     11,396      11,812
Average revenue                 28.9        27.6       26.1       24.7        23.2       23.1       23.0
(R$/000 T-Km)



- 83 -                                           Annex 9
(f) Tubarao Concession
7.      The Tubarao concession is a single purpose (coal) carrier serving one customer (Eletrosul)
over a very short distance. It is not clear why Tubarao was ever included within the national railway
network, but its future is solely bound to the needs of one customer. In this case, the sole customer
may need to take an active position in the railway by owning the concession and either operating it
directly or contracting for its operation. Even though Tubarao has a relatively short length of haul, its
average tariff per ton-km is about two to three times that of the rest of RFFSA, so there is probably
considerable room for a new owner/operator to effect economies of operation and save money for
Eletrosul. The revenues and the profitability of the concession will obviously depend on the position
of Eletrosul.
Table 6 - Financial Forecast of Tubarao Concession
Year                               1994        1995        1996        1997        1998        1999        2000
Expenses                          8,662       7,873       7,680       7,485       7,776       8,050       8,334
Labor, inci benefits             5,838       4,957       4,751       4,544       4,726       4,915       5,111
Fuels                             401         314         319          323         328         333         338
"Tiquete"                         719         546         523         501         521         541          563
Diarias                             51         33           34         34           35          36          36
ICMS                              948        1,050       1,108       1,168       1,230       1,268       1,307
Other Materials                   283         285         243         200         206          212         219
Other Services                    246          95          98          100         103         106         109
Utilities and Services             100         72          73          73          74           75          76
Other Current Expenses             76         521         531         542         553          564         575
Revenues                          9,370       9,144       9,677      10,199      10,944      11,290      11,634
Transport Revenues               6,625       8,901       9,395       9,902      10,423      10,752      11,080
Other Revenues                   2,745        243         282         297         521          538         554
Normalization                       0
Operating Results                   708       1,271       1,997       2,714       3,168       3,240       3,300
Maintenance of Rolling Stock          0         531         637         743         850         956        1,062
Economic Result                     708         740       1,360       1,971       2,318       2,284       2,238
Cost of "Canon"                       0           0         300         300         519         526         533
Net Result                          708         740       1,060       1,671       1,799       1,758       1,705
Ton-Km (000,000)                    95         103         106         108         111         115         118
Average revenue                   69.7        86.4        88.9        91.4        93.9        93.9        93.9
(R$/000 T-Km)



- 84 -                                        Annex 9
(g) Nordeste Concession
8.      The Nordeste concession has by far the lowest traffic density and employee productivity of all
of the RFFSA concessions, and even RFFSA's financial forecasts do not suggest that Nordeste can be
profitable. While there may indeed be a possibility that Nordeste could be profitable if operated with
imaginative marketing and stringent cost controls as in Argentina or U.S. shortline railway, it seems
more likely that the high tariffs needed to be profitable in the private sector would be unacceptable in
the poorest region of the country. Therefore the Government (and/or state governments) may have to
pay a subsidy to ensure adequate service levels and quality at an affordable price. According to
RFFSA's projections, traffic would increase from a low 800 million ton-km to about 1. 1 billion ton-km
in year 2000 under private operation. With the staff retrenchment and emergency rehabilitation
programs completed, the operational deficit could be reduced from about R$50 million in 1994-95 to
less than R$20 million by year 2000 (Table 7). The Government would have to define an appropriate
model for the Nordeste concession, including the public service obligations which would be required
from the concessionaire and the mechanisms to ensure their appropriate funding.
Table 7 - Financial Forecast of Nordeste Concession
Year                             1994        1995       1996       1997        1998       1999       2000
Expenses                        96,288     83,370     69,381     55,606      57,693     59,754     61,882
Labor, inci benefits          69,925      63,776     50,185     36,595      38,058     39,581     41,164
Fuels                          6,464       4,756      4,827      4,900      4,973       5,048      5,124
"Tiquete"                      6,801       6,621      5,210      3,799      3,951       4,109      4,274
Diarias                         1,228       913         931        950        969         988      1,008
ICMS                            1,369      1,191      1,351      1,519       1,692      1,761       1,830
Other Materials                4,371       2,598      2,699      3,000       3,090      3,186      3,278
Other Services                 2,800       1,726      2,363      3,000       3,090      3,183      3,278
Utilities and Services          1,409       926         935        945        954         964        973
Other Current Expenses          1,921       863         880        898        916         934        953
Revenues                        43,676     41,172     34,709     39,001      44,310     46,116      47,922
Transport Revenues            31,057      29,697     33,698     37,865     42,200      43,920     45,640
Other Revenues                  1,044      1,181      1,011      1,136      2,110       2,196      2,282
Normalization                  11,575     10,294          0          0          0           0          0
Operating Results              -52,612    -42,198    -34.672    -16,605    -13,383    -13,638    -13,960
Maintenance of Rolling Stock        0       1,924      2,309      2,694       3,078      3,463       3,840
Economic Result                -52,612    44,122    -36,981      -19,299    -16,461    -17,101    -17,800
"Receipts of Administration"        0          0      42,290     25,147     23,109      24,015     24,996
Net Result                     -52,612    -44,122      5,309      5,848       6,648      6,914      7,196
Ton-Km (000,000)                 922        802         886        971       1,055      1,098      1,141
Average revenue                 33.7        37.0       38.0       39.0        40.0       40.0       40.0
(R$/000 T-Km)



- 85 -                                           Annex 9
B. Residual RFFSA
9.      RFFSA  has also  prepared  a financial forecast for the  residual RFFSA  company, after
operations have been transferred to the concessionaires. The forecast, however, is very tentative since:
(a) future revenues from the leases of rail assets will be determined at the auctions; (b) the estimated
future revenues from the sale of non-rail assets are based on very preliminary estimates of the asset
values; and (c) no decision has yet been made regarding the treatment of RFFSA's debts. After the
auctions for the main concessions have been completed, and the plan for the sale of non-rail assets has
been completed, the Government would make a decision regarding the treatment of RFFSA's debts,
and would present to the Bank a RFFSA financial restructuring and settlement plan including a revised
financial forecast.
10.    The main assumptions used by RFFSA  for the preparation of the tentative forecast are as
follows. Revenues from rail asset leases are based on BNDES' current minimum price estimates.
Revenues from the sale of non-rail assets are based on a tentative target of R$1.0 billion over 1996-
2000. The debts with the Government, essentially income tax and social contribution, would be dealt
through settlement of accounts, including RFFSA's credit on account of normalization payments for
Government-imposed public service obligations. The debts with Government entities such as INSS and
social funds and the ICMS tax arrears would be rescheduled over 20 years at 10% interest. The debt
with the Pension Fund (REFER) would be rescheduled over 10 years at the same 10% rate. No
provisions were made, however, for any possible future liabilities. Under these assumptions, and
with a R$150 million bridge loan in 1998, RFFSA could service its debts over 1996-2000 without
transfers from the National Treasury, and reduce its stock of debts from about R$3.0 billion at the end
of 1995 to about R$2.4 billion by year 2000 (Table 8).
Table 8 - RFFSA's Tentative Financial Forecast (R$ million)
1996        1997           1998         1999             2000
A. RAIL DIVISION
Operational Revenues                    82.3
Lease Revenues                          95.9        360.5          100.5        137,2            137,2
-Downpayments                          95.9        268.2
-Quarterly payments                       -         92.3          100.5        137,2            137,2
Operational Expenses                    26.4         29.6           34.8         34,8             34,8
NE Subsidy                              37.0         25.1           23.1         24,0             24,9
Net Operational Income
B. SETTLEMENT DIVISION
Real Estate Revenues                    10.0        100.0          200.0        300,0            400,0
Real Estate Expenses                     0.5          4.5           10.0         15,0             20,0
Net Real Estate Revenues                 9.5         95.5          190.0        285,0            380,0
Debt Service (Overdue)                  89.5        369.5          351.0        305,5            291,6
-Principal                             89.5       169.5          169.5        139,5            139,5
-Interest (10% a.a.)                               199.9          181.5        166,0            152,1
Debt Service (Princ. + Interest)        32.2         29.1           26.2         23,8             10,4
-BIRD                                  26.4         24.7          23.1          21,6             10,1
-BNDES                                  5.8          4.4           3.1           2,2              0,3
Bridge Loan                                                        150.0
Dcbt Service                                                                     18,0            148,0
Net Settlement income                 (112.2)      (3031)          (37.2)      (62,3)            (70,0)
RFFSA NET INCOME                         2.6          2.7            5.4         16,1              7,5
Source: RFFSA



- 86 -                                  Annex 10
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Project Economic Analysis
A. Introduction
1.     The project's main objective is to increase the performance and efficiency of the federal
railways through: (a) restructuring and concessioning its operations; (b) re-training and re-deploying its
redundant staff to more productive activities; (c) emergency repairs of locomotives, wagons and tracks
to enable continued and safe operations during the restructuring and concessioning process; (d) re-
designing railway regulation; and (e) restructuring RFFSA's functions and finances to effectively
manage rail and non-rail assets and to settle debts and labor liabilities. The staff retrenchment and the
emergency repair and maintenance programs, which are the main components of the project, will have
a direct impact on reducing the railway's costs. A separate economic analysis was carried out for each
of these two programs (sections B and C). The overall reform project, however, including the other
programs of relatively minor costs, is expected to substantially increase the railways' competitiveness
vis-a-vis other modes of transport, particularly trucking, and the railways' share of transport, thereby
reducing the long run marginal cost of freight transport in Brazil's main corridors. The economic
analysis of the project overall is presented in section D.
B. Economic Analysis of Staff Retrenchment Program
(a) Methodology
2.     The economic (rather than financial) costs and benefits of the redundancy program are compared
as follows. The costs cover mainly the amount of the severance payment (early retirements and financial
incentives) and the training cost. There is no loss of service value to RFFSA since, by definition, the
workers declared redundant have zero marginal productivity. The benefits include the additional
contribution to the economy that the workers will be able to deliver by working where is there is a demand
for their services.
3.     The costs. The costs of the retrenchment program in each concession are given by the sum of
the net present value of:
(i) the marginal productivity value of RFFSA's retrenched employees, differentiated by year
(i), employee (j), and concession area (k) (R Rk )
(ii) the severance payments (si );
(iii) the early retirement payments (P  )
(iv) the training costs (Tijk ) .



- 87-                                   Annex 10
4.     Item (1) represents the value of the services not rendered by RFFSA because of the labor
reduction. Since the remaining personnel is sufficient to carry out current production levels of RFFSA,
the value of the marginal productivity of retrenched workers is assumed to be zero.
5.    Items (2) and (3) would not be labeled economic costs, in an environment without budget
constraints or price distortions. Assuming no subsidy and no government budget constraint, these
outlays would be considered income-efficient transfers to the redundant employees and would then not
be included as a cost in the analysis. But Brazil does have a budget constraint and a highly distorted
tax system which results in many price distortions.  These two terns were therefore included to
recognize the importance of the costs of public funds. The underlying assumption is that the shadow
price of public funds is 100% and that each dollar of public resources used to finance severance
payments or early retirement packages has an equivalent economic cost which needs to be taken into
account. This also contributes to the conservative estimates of the rate of return as the cost estimates
are an upper bound of the costs rather than a lower bound. These payments are differentiated by year
(i) and employee (j).
6.    Item (4), training costs, have an economic component attached as long as the training agency
(or firm) has an alternative use for its resources. In this case, the training will be provided by para-
statal agencies that are fully subsidized by the government. These agencies appear to operate far below
their service capacity limits. Nevertheless, the full cost of the training program was included. Training
costs were estimated at R$ 200 to 250 per employee for 40 days, and all redundant workers have been
included. Training is differentiated by year (i), employee (j), and subsystem (k).
7.     The pensions paid to normally retired employees are not included, since these costs would be
incurred anyway. Earlier payments of regular pension have not been included since they are small and
heir impact on the internal rate of return of the project would not be significant.
8.     The Benefits. The benefits of redundancy reduction in each year are given by:
(i) the marginal productivity value of each laid-off employee elsewhere in the economy
(Rijrmp );
(ii) the marginal productivity value of the foregone labor cost of RFFSA (LCk ).
9.     The marginal productivity value of the laid-off employee is the product of: (i) the probability
of the employee's engagement in another productive activity, which depends on the effectiveness of the
training which the employee receives, by (ii) the net income produced by such activity.  RE  is
influenced by attributes such as age, education, etc., of each employee (j), and the location (m) he is
likely to find an occupation (p). Region (m) may or may not be the same as where he previously
worked and occupation (p) is related to the employee's attributes and the training which he receives.
In some cases, the laid-off employee may get a job at the expense of someone else's job, and his net
income contribution may be zero. But since these cases are normally rare, their impact on the final
results would not be significant. Provision was made for these assumptions in the sensitivity analyses.
10.    The marginal productivity value of the foregone labor cost of RFFSA  represents the
opportunity cost of the outlays that will be saved by the program. These savings in labor costs can be
used in investments in railways needed to provide additional service capacity, as well as further



- 88 -                                  Annex 10
improvements in the existing system. In the economic analysis of this specific program they are
estimated as equivalent to the foregone labor cost. In the economic analysis of the overall project, in
section D, the savings in labor costs are translated in terms of a reduction in the long-run marginal cost
of rail transport. That cost reduction is the main reason for the increased rail competitiveness which in
turn explains the improvement of the rail market share over trucking.
(b) Quantitative Assumptions
11.    The quantitative assumptions made in estimating the return to staff reductions are conservative;
in particular, it is assumed that not everyone will find a job. The probability of being re-employed
was computed on the basis of the time spent on the job and the average length of unemployment. Based
on the information available about the employment situation in the largest metropolitan areas, the
probability of finding a new job ranges from 0.64 in the Northeast and 0.81 in the Center to 0.83 in all
other concession areas. These are strong assumptions since the probability of finding a job within a
year is in fact essentially 100% in all regions except for the North-East where on average it takes 14
months to find a job. The main reason why unemployment duration is rather short is that prices adjust
to clear the labor market. This implies that unemployment goes down as prices go down. Those who
do not find a job at their previous wage have to accept a wage cut consistent with the average
probability of being employed. The reduction in wage depends on the region; wage is reduced to the
average salary in the region where a worker is declared redundant. This implies wage losses varying
from 10% in the South and Southeast to 30% in the North East and Tubarao regions (Table 1,
hereafter).
(c) Results
12.    The net present value (NPV) of the staff retrenchment program is estimated at US$606 million
for a 12% discount rate, and its internal economic rate of return (IERR) is estimated at 40%, under the
most realistic and conservative assumptions (Table 1, hereafter). In financial terms, the payback period
is estimated to be a highly significant 1.6 years. There are wide differences across regions. Excluding
the Central Administration, the region with the highest return is the South East (the NPV is estimated
at US$223 million and the IERR is estimated at 51%). This is the region where labor productivity is
the highest, and also where the opportunity cost of not using the labor force effectively is the highest.
The lowest rate of return (19%) is found in the North-East. In all other regions, these conservative
estimates suggest rates of return to the economy over 37%. Table 1 also shows the results of the
sensitivity tests made: (a) if salaries are assumed to be 10% less than expected, the estimated rate of
return would be reduced to 36%. On the other hand, (b) if the probability of finding a new job is
100%, the estimated rate of return of the program would be as much as 50%, and the minimum rate in
the North East would increase from 19% to 34%.
13.   In summary, the redundancy program has a clear social value, under the most pessimistic
assumptions. This social value does not stem from the fact that RFFSA's workers are laid-off, but
rather because the redundant workers can be better used in other sectors where the demand has been
identified, and from the specific efforts made to ensure that the quality of this labor force will be
enhanced in the process through training. It also releases scarce public resources for better targeted
and more effective uses including education, which is best completed earlier rather than through middle
life literacy programs.



- 89 -                                             Annex 10
Table I - Analysis of Staff Retrenchment Program
Central
Concessions                     Nordeste  Centro-leste  Sudeste     Sul       Oeste    Tubarao     Admin      Total
No of Employees                    4,479       11,948    10,268    10,480      2,736       360      1,209      41,480
No of Layoffs                      1,909        5,575     4,624      4,547       772        30        590      18,047
Average Wage & Benefits            1,215        1,186      1,656     1,310     1,302      1,232     2,412           -
Average Age                           45           40        41        40         41        40         41
Probability of Finding Job          0.64         0.81      0.83       0.83      0.83      0.83       0.83
Wage Reduction Coefficient           0.7          0.9       0.9        0.8      0.85       0.7        0.9
Marginal Productivity (US$)          591          741      1,035      728        769       599      1,508
Severance Payment (US$)
- Fixed                           11,745       11,349    12,024    11,478    11,542    12,313      17,658
- Variable                         7.048        6,811     7,215      6,887     6,925     7,387     10,000
Training cost/Employee (US$)         950          950       950        950       950       950      1,031
Training Percentage                   70           70        70        70         70        70         50           -
Severance Payments (US$000)       35,875      101,239    88,961    83,505    14,256        591     16,318     340,748
Training Costs (US$000)            1,269        3,707     3,074      3,023       513        19        304      11,913
Outplacement Costs (US$000)          264          772       640       629        106         4         81       2,500
Program Cost (US$000)             37,409      105,719    92,676    87,159    14,876        615     16,704     355,161
Annual Wage Savings (US$000)       8,659       40,167    47,666    32,959      5,909       178      8,858     144,400
Average Remaining Years               10           15        14         15        14        15         14       13.86
Present Value of Savings (US$ m)      49          273       316       224         39         1         59         962
Net Present Value (US$m.)             12          168       223        137        24         1         42         607
Estimated IERR, Base Case             19           37        51        37         39        28         52          40
- Wages Reduced 10%                   16           33        46        33         35        25         47          36
- 100% Probability of Job Within      34           46        61        45         47        34         63          50
I Ye: r
C. Economic Analysis of Emergency Rehabilitation Program
14.      The Emergency Rehabilitation Program  (ERP) is divided into six components: (a) locomotive
rehabilitation aimed at increasing the availability of locomotives, thus increasing traffic and avoiding
the costs of locomotive failure; (b) wheel replacement on both locomotives and wagons to reduce
derailments; (c) conversion of freight wagons to container flat-wagons to capture traffic now growing
as a result of Mercosul development; (d) minimum repairs of trackage to maintain safe operation and
reduce derailments; (e) limited system investment primarily in signaling and remote switch control
needed to pennit planned manpower reductions to proceed; and, (f) investments needed to close and
consolidate rolling stock repair shops in order to meet manpower reduction targets and facilitate the
operations of the new concessionaires.
(a) Locomotive Rehabilitation
15.     As a result of shortage of capital and consequent neglected maintenance, only about 52 percent
of RFFSA's locomotive fleet is operative, and the locomotives in operation are highly prone to failure
en route. This imposes two costs on the system: traffic is refused because there are not enough
locomotives available to haul the traffic on offer, and operating costs are high because on-line failures
are far more expensive than preventive maintenance. The situation has become so difficult that there
would be little tractive power left to hand over to concessionaires, and the concession value will be
substantially reduced, if emergency repairs are not made. RFFSA identified 240 of their current fleet



- 90 -                                     Annex 10
of 901 locomotives for emergency repair and rehabilitation, which would result in higher reliability
and availability for an estimated eight year period.
16.    The locomotive rehabilitation component has two main benefits:  (i) the avoided economic
costs of the locomotive failures; and (ii) the avoided increases of long-run marginal economic transport
costs for traffic which would shift from rail to trucks if the program was not implemented. The
average added cost to recover from a failure is about $1,500. This is a conservative figure and it
includes only labor costs necessary for the typical repairs. Long run marginal costs for rail transport
were extracted from RFFSA's most recent cost study and differentiated by region according to the
average length of the haul (see section D). Therefore these rail costs overestimate future rail costs that
will be incurred under private operation and underestimate the returns of this program, because of the
productivity improvements expected from the project. Trucking costs for truck load shipments were
estimated from a representative sample of firms operating in the truck-load segment. The trucking cost
function adopted is sensitive to both economies of density and the average length of the haul. The unit
costs calculations for each subsystem were made in the region of the cost function where the economies
of density are exhausted for the average length of the haul observed at each subsystem.
17.    The        economic                     Table 2 - Locomotive Rehabilitation Analysis
analysis of the locomotive                 Locos   Failures    Repair  Loss Per Rehabilitation    Economic
rehabilitation    component    Concession   Rehab   Reduced   Costs   Failure      Costs       NPV
shows a positive net present                (nb.)    (nb.)   (US$)    (US$)    (US$m)        (US$m)
value  of about  US$73.6
million at a 12%  discount  Nordeste          44    2,119     1,546     1,698      21.7        -8.3
rate  (Table  2).      The  Sudeste           58    2,462     t,653    3,094       31.8
variations  by  region  are  Sul              71    5,551     1,546    2,967       38.2        35.9
explained by the differences  Bauru           10    1,176     1,546    2,858        5.5        10.0
in RFFSA's regional costs,  Centro-leste      57    4,930     1,546    2,962       30.2        36.2
mainly due to the variations .Total          240    16,238    1,572    2.811      127.5        73.6
in traffic densities. The expected reductions in the railways' operating costs, which are expected from
the project, would further improve these results, and turn positive the NPV for the Nordeste
concession (see section D).
18.    The above results are quite robust with respect to variations in the key assumptions. The base
case estimated economic rate of return for the entire program is 43 %. A 20 percent reduction in the
estimated cost per locomotive failure reduces the rate of return to 40 percent. A 20 percent increase in
the rehabilitation cost per locomotive reduces the rate of return to about 27 percent. Under both
assumptions together, the rate of return would still be a satisfactory 25 percent.
(b) Wagon Repairs
19.    The wagon repair component consists of the replacement of 11,200 worn wagon wheels which
are causing excessive derailments, and about 2,400 locomotive wheels. Due to limited historical data,
RFFSA cannot distinguish between the consequences of locomotive derailments and wagon
derailments. It was assumed that they are all wagon derailment. This is a conservative assumption
since locomotive derailment is much more costly to repair than a wagon derailment. RFFSA records
indicate that derailments due to bad wheels cost around $2.7 million per year in lost operations and
added labor costs (taxes are negligible in this case). Assuming that these can be reduced by about 80
percent through replacing bad wheels, the wheel replacement program would have an economic rate of
return of 19 percent. Assuming that the derailment reduction would be 20 percent less than expected
would reduce the rate of return to 13 percent. An increase in the replacement cost of 20 percent would
reduce the rate of return to 14 percent.  Since the assumptions made are conservative, and in
particular, no allowances have been made for the higher cost of locomotive wheel faults, for the non-



- 91 -                                  Annex 10
operating costs of derailments such as human injury, environmental clean-up, or for lost cargo value,
there is good reason to conclude that the wheel replacement program would have an acceptable intemal
economic rate of return.
(c) Wagon Conversion
20.    As a result of the Mercosul Trade Agreement, trade between Brazil and Argentina is increasing
rapidly, especially in higher-value manufactured products. Transport alternatives for this trade are
truck or rail. Rail movement necessitates a change of gauge at the Brazil/Argentina border, since the
Argentine Mesopotamica Railway is standard gauge, and the Brazilian Sul system is meter gauge.
These two factors -- higher-value products needing better service and the change of gauge at the border
-- combine to encourage growth in rail-hauled containers if rail is to be competitive. In 1995, for
example, RFFSA's container traffic was growing at about 20 percent per year.
21.   In the long run, as traffic increases, the Sul concessionaire is likely to invest in specialized
equipment. RFFSA currently has available 300 flat wagons that can be converted rapidly for about
$10,000 per wagon. These wagons will be suitable in the short run, and will have a ten year life.
Discussions with one of the potential concessionaires for Sul confirm that the equipment would be
consistent with current plans and would be used as planned: on this basis, the value of the conversion
program would be reflected in the bids received.
22.    Assuming a relatively conservative wagon productivity of 540,000 ton-km per wagon annually
and a net economic benefit of R$0. 11 per ton-km, which was derived from the difference between rail
and trucking long run marginal cost , the wagon conversion component would yield a 60 percent rate
of return. The economic rate of return for the conversion program is robust. Assuming the net
benefits would be 20% less than expected, the component would still yield a rate of return of 48
percent. A 20 percent increase in the conversion cost would reduce the rate of return to 50 percent.
Under both assumptions together, the component would still yield a high rate of return of 39 percent.
(d) Track Repairs
23.    Shortage of capital has deferred the maintenance of track and infrastructure, resulting into
increased derailments and safety risks, especially in areas where RFFSA carries hazardous cargoes.
Since RFFSA's traffic mix in many of the regions is weighted toward petroleum products, there are
many points at which a safety risk exists. An immediate program of rehabilitation is needed on the
parts of the network which carry higher density traffic and are thus exposed to higher risks of
derailment. Because it is basic work aimed at the higher priority parts of the network, the maintenance
work will be needed no matter who is operating the tracks.  Further, as the Government remains the
owner of the track and structures, the value of the work accrues to the Government both in asset
ownership and in the value of the bids received for the concession.
24.    The estimates of quantities of sleepers, rail and      Table 3-Track Repair Quantities
ballast to be substituted, based on completed engineering          (in thousand units)
designs, are shown in Table 3 herewith. In addition, the             Sleepers  Rail    Ballast
iunits)   (tons    Wm)
program includes minor works on other infrastructure   Nordeste     50                1 7
facilities. The estimated cost of the track component is  Centro-Leste    42  3.0     15
about $23.3 million.                                  Sudeste       77        .3      3
Sul           26       3.2     20
25.    The benefits to be derived from the track repair  Total       195      6.5     55
component are the reduced derailments of trains.



- 92 -                                 Annex 10
RFFSA statistics show that 48 percent of the derailments are attributed to tracks. It was assumed
conservatively that the proposed track repairs would reduce the costs of such derailments by 15%. On
this basis, the IERR was estimated at 19%. If benefits were 20% lower than expected, the IERR
would be about 13%. If costs were 20% higher than expected, the IERR would be 14%. There are
other important benefits such as improved human safety and reduced environmental risks, but they are
not easily quantifiable. There is no question that the investment is needed if the lines are to continue
in service, whoever operates them, and the value will accrue to the Government.
(e) Signaling and Telecommunications Systems
26.    Signaling and telecommunications investments comprise primarily automation of control of
remote switches which now requires independent staff. This component, estimated at about US$6.5
million, would reduce operating costs and increase the railways safety and reliability. The investment
is necessary to support the already committed manpower reduction program, and will be needed by the
concessionaires. No rate of return for the component has been calculated because it is considered a
necessary investment under the Staff Retrenchment Program. The operating cost savings in manpower
alone, which would be made possible by the proposed signaling investments, are in excess of US$9
million annually. These costs will be recovered by RFFSA before concessioning in most cases and
will accrue to the Government as owner and in the value of the bids received.
(f) Maintenance Facility Relocation
27.    RFFSA has far too many maintenance shops scattered over the system. The concessioning
program will require to consolidate some facilities in order to free unnecessary property for sale. In
many cases, since RFFSA shops are in urban areas, the closing of the shops will make the land
available for other uses. The component consists of relocating equipment from and close about 42
facilities which range from small, general purpose facilities to larger rolling stock shops, including:
15 in Nordeste; 14 in Centro-Leste; 5 in Sudeste ; 8 in Sul/Tubarao. Its cost is estimated at about
US$6.5 million.
28.    Because this component is also considered a necessary investment under the Staff Retrenchment
Program, no specific rate of return is calculated in this section. Shop relocation is an important part of
RFFSA consolidation in support of concessioning, and labor savings alone would repay the investment
in the first year. In addition, the value added through subsequent real estate development would easily
exceed the cost of relocation and consolidation.
D. Economic Analysis of Overall Project
(a) Methodology
29.   The main benefit of the overall project would be the reduction in the total transport costs which
can be achieved through the expansion of rail services. This expansion is likely to come not only from
the natural growth of today's traditional rail markets, but also from the increased rail market share in
inter-regional trade flows. Interstate commerce is estimated at about 200 million tons at an average
distance of over 1,100 kilometers. Inter-regional flows along rail trunk lines exceed 77 million tons



- 93 -                                          Annex 10
with an average haul of 1,500 kilometers.' The railways' market shares in these flows are currently
negligible, trucking being the dominant mode. However, the comparative advantage of rail technology
over trucking is quite sensitive to the length of the haul. At distances above 500 kilometers, rail cost
and service advantages in freight transportation are far superior to trucking.
30.     The macroeconomic benefits of the proposed project were estimated on the basis of the
projected rail traffic of the six regional systems, as estimated by BNDES in order to establish
minimum bidding prices for the concessions. The benefits of the proposed project would be derived
from: (a) the reduction in rail costs resulting from the expected improvements in rail productivity; and
(b) the difference in the long run marginal costs of the railway and trucks for the traffic which is
expected to be diverted from trucks to the railways. The improvements in rail productivity will
enhance rail competitiveness with respect to trucking, allowing it to attract more shipments. But these
improvements will also reduce the costs of hauling the existing traffic, making an additional
contribution to the overall benefits of the project.
(b) Traffic Projections
31.     The projections of rail traffic flows by region, show that the total production of the six RFFSA
systems would amount to 64 billion net ton-km by 2003 (i.e., the sixth year of operation after
concessioning), representing a 25 billion ton-km increase from the current production of approximately
39 billion net ton-km. This growth would represent about 13% of the projected inter-regional trade,
which is estimated at 152 billion net ton-km, assuming a 4% growth of both the economy and of
RFFSA's traditional markets. Traffic projections for the six subsystems are presented in Table 4
hereafter.
Table 4 - Projected Rail Traffic (million net ton-kn)
Year       Nordeste  Centro-leste   Sudeste     Sul      Oeste   Tubarao      Total
1996           926        7000     20000       9000      2000        96      39022
1997          1079        7857     21429       9857      2286        99      42607
1998          1233        8714     22857      10714      2571        102     46192
1999          1386        9571     24286      11571      2857        105     49777
2000          1540       10429     25714      12429      3134        109     53363
2001          1693       11286     27143      13286      3429        112     56948
2002          1847       12143     28571      14143      3714        115     60533
2003          2000       13000     30000      15000      4000        118     64118
2004          2153       13857     31429      15857      4286        121     67703
2005          2307       14714      32857     16714      4571        124     71288
2006          2460       15571      34286     17571      3857        127     74873
2007          2614       16429     35714      18429      5143        131     78459
(c) Transport Costs and Benefits
32.     In 1994, RFFSA developed a detailed assessment of its operational cost management system,
and of the cost structures of its competing  modes.   The study, financed under the institutional
component of Loan No. 2563-BR, was aimed at enhancing RFFSA's strategic marketing planning.2
1. These estimates are based on the results of a multiregional input-output model developed for Brazil (Castro, N.
"Intramodalidade, intermodalidade e o transporte de longa distancia no Brasil", IPEA, Texto para Discussao 357.
1994)
2 "Desenvolvimento do Plano de Acao de Custos" - RFFSA, 1994, Relatorio Final.



- 94 -                                        Annex 10
The rail and truck cost estimates which were derived and are shown in the final report of the study
were used as a basis for this analysis.
33.    Rail marginal costs were estimated on the basis of RFFSA's operational cost figures for the
period 1991-93. These costs include all operational outlays, maintenance of rolling stock, equipment
and infrastructure, and depreciation of rolling stock and equipment. The labor component of rail long-
run marginal costs (LRMC rail) was adjusted assuming that the private concessionaire would operate
with the labor force as determined by RFFSA for the Staff Retrenchment Program. Thus, the average
productivity gains permitted by the program are incorporated in the projected rail cost estimates. On
the other hand, it is also assumed that the railways' real average wages for the remaining employees
would increase by 30% after privatization. These assumptions combined result in a 20% average
decrease in the long-run marginal costs of rail transport. As the original data was available for each of
RFFSA's 12 production departments, the estimates for each concession were obtained as net ton-km
weighted average of the respective departments. RFFSA's average productivity of that recent period
was conservatively projected for the lifetime of the program. Table 5 hereafter shows both present and
projected rail long-run marginal costs.
34.    Trucking                       Table 5 - Long-Run Marginal Costs for Rail and Truck Transport
costs were also                                          (in US$/ton-lkm)
taken from the same                         Nordeste    Centro-leste   Sudeste   Sul   Oeste    Tubarao
study, and were         Present rail LRMC   0.0292     0.0150      0.0090    0.0180    0.0170    0.0280
based on operating      Projected rail LRMC    0.0232  0.0119       0.0072    0.0143    0.0135    0.0223
costs for truck-load    Truck LRMC          0.0367     0.0400      0.0355    0.0294    0.0288    0.1360
freight. These
costs do not include road wear and environmental impact costs. The trucking cost function adopted is
sensitive to both economies of density and the average length of haul. The unit costs calculations for
each subsystem were made at the productive level of the cost function where the economies of density
were exhausted for the average length of the haul observed at each subsystem. The resulting costs for
trucking (LRMC truck) are shown in Table 3 for the six regional systems. Marginal costs of trucking
are differentiated by region according to the average length of haul.
(d) Investment Costs
35.    The project economic cost, including all components but excluding taxes and contingencies, is
estimated at about US$570 million (Table 6 hereafter). None of the additional benefits identified in
the economic analysis of the project components were considered. All payments made under the Staff
Retrenchment Program were included in the totalization of the program's cost. The distribution of the
costs by region and component is presented in Table 6 hereafter.
Table 6 - Project Economic Costs by Component (US$ million)
Project
Component        Nordeste  Centro-leste  Sudeste  Sul    Oeste    Tubarao  Total
Locomotives         18.1        25.2    26.5   31.8      4.6      0.0  106.3
Wheels               0.3         2.1     3.9    3.0      0.0      0.0    9.4
Wagons               0.0         0.0     0.0    3.0      0.0      0.0    3.0
Tracks               2.5         8.6     6.5    5.6       0.0     0.0   23.9
Systems              3.2         1.0     0.4    1.7      0.0      0.0    6.5
Shops                3.9         3.7      1.3    2.1     0.0      0.0   11.1
Staff Retrenchment  37.0       110.0   105.0   95.0    15.0       0.6  362.6
Central Administration and other expenses                                48.0
Total               65.2       150.7   143.7  142.4    19.6       0.6  570.2



- 95 -                                         Annex 10
(e) Results of Base Case Analysis
36.     The net present value of the project is estimated at about US$2.4           Table 7-Base Case Results
billion for a 12%  discount rate, and its internal economic rate of return                      IRR      NPV
(IERR) is estimated  at a high  68%  under the base case (rail costs   Nordeste                 (2)  (US2 in)
incorporating productivity gains and demands as shown in Table 4). The   Centro-leste            68      652
net present value varies from about US$2.7 to US$1.9 billion for discount   Sudeste             107      1198
rates ranging  from  10%  to  15%, respectively.   The IERRs for the   Sul                       55      404
concessions are all above 20%, the lowest rate being  found  in the   Ocste                     101       141
Nordeste. In the important concessions of Centro-leste, Sudeste, Sul and   Total                 68      2435
Oeste, rates of return are above 50%. (Table 7).
(f) Risk Analysis
37.     The project would be subject to three major types of risks, as described in the first part of this
report (stemming from institutional, implementation and regulatory problems). All three types of risks
would materialize mainly into delays in both the privatization process and in reaching the projected
levels of rail production. The impacts of such circumstances have been examined in the sensitivity
analysis above. The results show that even in the most extreme and very unlikely case of complete
stagnation of rail traffic, the internal economic rate of return is an acceptable 13%. This result is
obtained, including all the costs of the Emergency Rehabilitation Program, and none of its benefits.
All the disbursements of the Staff Retrenchment Program were also considered in these calculations
and none of the benefits identified in section B. In financial terms, this latter program guarantees an
exceptional return for the project in any case.
38.     A first sensitivity test on the results above assumed that rail costs will not be reduced by the
project. Using the conservative rail cost estimates shown in Table 3, the project's internal rate of
return falls to 49%. Only in the North-East region does the return fall below 10%. A second test was
performed assuming that demand levels would be 20% below the projected figures in the base case for
2003. The overall rate of return, in this case, falls to 45%, but the results by region are all above
14%. The reduction in demand penalizes less the benefits attributed to the North East concession,
because the demand growth projected for that region are relatively more modest. A sensitivity analysis
made on both trucking costs (-20%) and investment costs (+20%) showed that the economic results of
the project are quite robust with an overall internal rate of return of 50%. An extreme case for the
evolution of the demand for rail services assumed zero growth for the entire planning horizon. The
only benefits in this case would be the reduction in rail costs permitted by the Staff Retrenchment
Program only on the existing traffic (but including the costs of all other programs). The overall
project internal rate of return in this case would still be a satisfactory 13%. The switching value for
the traffic growth assumption, which would zero the NPV, is therefore a slightly negative growth.
Table 8 - Sensitivity Analysis
Rail Cost Assumption    base case             +20%               base case             base case
Demand Assumption      as projected        as projected           -20%                zero growth
Trucking Costs         as estimated        as estimated         as estimated            -20%
Investment Costs       as estimated        as estimated         as estimated          as estimated
IRR       NPV       IRR       NPV        IRR       NPV       IRR           NPV
(%)    (US$ m.)    (%)   (USS m.)       (%)   (US$ m.)       (%)       (US$ m.)
Nordeste               20          28        2        -26       14          6         -3          -30
Centro-leste           68         652      52         469       48        358         7           -26
Sudeste               107        1198      83         938       64        513        22            57
Sul                    55         404      29         148       40        222        19            40
Oeste                 101         141      60         77        78         91        33            17
Tubarao               373          12      150          9       77          2        91             2
Total                  68        2435      49        1615       45        1192       13            60



- 96 -                                                             Annex 11
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAY RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Table 1 - Project Cost and Financing
-----------------------Quantities              ---------Base Cost----------------          Financing--
Project Component               Unit  Price   Total  1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000    Total  GOB   Bank
Operations Restructuring & Concessloning (ORC)                                             8.1    3.1    1.6    0.1    0.1   13.1
. studies                                                                                 B.0    3.0    1.5                   12.5  100%
technical assistance         hm      12.0    48       6     12      12     12      6    0.1    01       0.1    0.1    0.1    0.6           100%
Staff Retrenchment Program (SRP)                                                         196.2  156.1   42.7    0.0    0.0  396.0
early retirement              u      10.0  4000   4000                                  40.0    0 0    0.0    0.0    0.0   40.0
separation grants             u      189  18000   8000   8000   2000                   151.2  151.2   37.8    0.0    00   340.1   50%    50%
retraining packages           u       1.3  9500   3500   3000   3000                     4.6    3.9    3.9    0.0    0.0   12.4            100%
outplacement assistance       u       0 5   5000   1000   2000   2000                    0.5    1.0    1.0    0.0    0.0    2.5             100%
Emergency Rehabilitation Program (ERP)                                                   107.6  128.1   12.6    0.0    0.0  248.3
locomotive rehabilitation     u    442.5   240    120    120                            53.1   53.1    0.0    0.0    0.0  106.2   20%    80%
locomotive & wagon wheel sub    u     1.0  13500   7000   6500                           7.0    6.5    0.0    0.0    0.0   13.5            100%
locomotrve battery substitution    u  20.0   200    100    100                           2.0    2.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    4.0             100%
wagon conversion              u      10.0   300    100    200                            10      2.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    3.0   20%    80%
emergency track repair & stabil  km  10.0  2300    500   1000    800                     5.0   100    8.0    00        0.0   230    20%    80%
telecom & signalling systems  Is     10.0   650    150    350    150                     1.5    3.5    1.5    0.0    00       6.5   20%    80%
workshop consolidation        Is     10.0  1210    300    600    310                     30      6.0    3.1    0.0    0.0   12.1   10%    80%
locomotive repair& maintenanc   u    400.0   150     50    100                          200    400    00       0.0    0.0   60.0
trackmaintenance              Is  10000       20     15      5                          150    5.0    0.0    0.0    00    20.0
Environmental Management Component (EMC)                                                   04     0.5    0.1    0.1    0.1    1.2
site surveys                 Is       1 0    700    300    400                           0,3    0.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.7            100%
technical assistance and trainin  Is  1.0   500    100    100    100    100    100    0.1    0.1    0.1    01          0.1    0.5          100%
Regulatory Reform Component (RRCJ                                                          0.1    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.3
technical assistance         hm      15.0    12       6      6                           01      01     0.0    0 0    0.0    0.2           100%
training                   tr.week    1 0    100     20     40      40                   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1            100%
Financial Restructuring and SeKtlement (FRS)                                               1.2    2.6    2.1    1.1    04       7.5
project management assistanc   hm    12.0   108      18     36      36     18            0.2    0.4    0.4    0.2    0.0    1.3            100%
real estate management assist   hm   12.0   200      25     50      50     50     25    0.3    06    06        0.6    0.3    24            100%
engineering&workssupervisio  hm      80    320       70    150    100                    06      12     0.8    00      00     26           100%
equipment&software           Is       1.0   800    100    300    200    200              0.1    0.3    02      02      00     0.8          100%
training                  tr week    1.D   450       50    100    100    100    100    0.1    01        0.1    0.1    0.1    0.5           100%
Total Capital (base) Cost                                                               313.6  290.6   59.2    IA       0.6  665.3
physical contingencies              10.0%                                               10.9   13.1    1.5    0.1    0.1   25.7   50%    50%
price contingencies                                0.6%    2.4%   2.4%   2.4%    2.4%    1.0    5.3    2.5    0.1    0.1    9.0   50%    50%
Total Project Cost                                                                       326.5  309.0   63.2    1.6    0.7  700.0             50%
Bank Financing:                                                                          148.3  161.3   38.3    1.5    0.6  350.0             50%
category 1 (separation grants)                                                          75.6   75.6   18.9    00       0.0  170.1
category 2 (goods & services)                                                           44 5   46.9    1 2    0.0    0.0   92.6
category 3 (goods)                                                                       91      8.8    02     0.2    00    18.3
category 4 (civil works)                                                                 64    128    89       00      0.0   28.1
category 5 (consultants and training)                                                    6.8    8 0    7 1    1.2    0.6   23.6
category 6 (unallocated)                                                                 60     9.2    2.0    01       01    17.4
Government of Brazil                                                                     1020   102.1   246      0.1    01   2289             33%
RFFSA                                                                                     75 3   45.6    0 3    0.0    0.0  121.2             17%
Sources: RFFSA and Mission Estimates
May 1996



- 97 -                                                 Annex 11
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAY RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Table 2 - Monitoring Indicators and Targets
Proeram/Obietives                      Indicator                 12/31196  6/30/97  12/31/97  6/30/98  12/31/98  12/31/99 12131/00
I. IMPLEMENTATION PROGRESS'
A. Operations Restructuring & Concessioning
concession bidding & contracting   no. of bidding doc. published               2         4         6
no. of auctions completed                   2         4         5        6
no. of concessions contracted               1         2         4        5          6
organization of RFFSA superv. function no. of regional units operational        1        2         4
staffing of RFFSA2                 no. of staff                              755       400      450       500        500      500      500
B. Staff Retrenchment
. reduction of staff3                no. of contracts terminated              8000    13000    16000    17000       18000
. ofwhich retirement                 no. ofemployees retired                  3000      3500     4000      4500      5000
re-training of redundant staff     no. of staffre-trained                    3000     5000      6000      8500      9000
. re-employment assistance          no. of staffre-employed                   1900      5800     9400    11700      12500    12900    13000
C. Emergency Rehabilitation
rehabilitation of locomotives      no. of loco rehabilitated                   80       160      240
replacement of loco & wagon wheels    no. ofwheels replaced                  5000    10000    13500
rehabilitation oftracks            expenditures (US$ m)                         5        10       15        23
deferred maintenance of locomotives    expenditures (US$ m)                    50       150
maintenance of tracks              expenditures (US$ m)                        1 5       20
D. Environmental Management
. environmental surveys             no. ofsites surveyed                       100       150
E. Regulatory Reform
.strengthening of regulatory function  no. oftrainee-weeks                      25        50       75       100
F. Financial Restructuring & Settlement
rail asset management              rail revenues (US$ m)                       95       160      230       300       370      500      650
real estate sales                  sale revenues (US$ m)                       10        50      100       200       300      600      1000
debt reduction                     payments of principal. (US$ m)              10        50      100       200       300      500      700
II. DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES'                                          1995   1996*       1997*   1997**    1998*    1998**    1999    2000
reduced transport costs            average cost (US cent/ton-km)    2.5       2.5       2.4       2.4      2.3        2.2      2.1      2.0
increased market share             traffic (billion ton-km/year)     35        35       37        39        41        43       48        53
staffproductivitv                  million ton-km per employee       1.0      1.1       1.3       1.5      1.7        1.9      2.1      2.3
locomotive productivity            loco availability (% offleet)     50        52        58       65        70        75       78        80
locoproductivity(millionton-     52        52        53       54        55        56        58       60
km/yr)
I/All implementation progress targets are cumulative
2/ Excluding staffin not-yet concessioned operations
3/ Based on the 41,991 staffas of May 95
4/ All development objective targets are totals or averages during the period
* first semester
** second semester
Sources: RFFSA and Mission Estimates
May 1996



- 98 -                                                Annex 11
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAY RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Table 3 - Procurement Schedule for Major Contracts
Type of     NO of   Type of Documents  Bids Prop.  Contract    Delivery   Initiation
Component           Contract  Contracts  Bidding    Ready     Invited    Signature  of Goods b/ of Works
LOCOMOTIVES
Bid 1
-Lot 1                   Supp/works     1       ICB         Mar-96     Apr-96    Aug-96                Aug-96
-Lot 2                   Supp/works     1       ICB         Mar-96     Apr-96    Aug-96                Aug-96
-Lot 3                   Supp/works     1       ICB         Mar-96     Apr-96    Aug-96                Aug-96
Bid 2
-Lot 1                   Supplworks     1       ICB         Mar-96     Apr-96    Aug-96                Aug-96
-Lot 2                   Supplworks     1        ICB        Mar-96     Apr-96    Aug-96                Aug-96
Bid 3                     Supplworks     1       ICB         Mar-96     Apr-96    Aug-96                Aug-96
WHEELS
Bid 4
-Lot 1 (Locos)             Supply       1       ICB         Apr-96    May-96    Aug-96        Sep-96    Oct-96
- Lot 2 (Vag6es)           Supply        1       ICB        Apr-96    May-96    Aug-96        Sep-96    Oct-96
BATTERIES
Bid 5                     Supp/works     1       ICB         Apr-96    May-96    Aug-96        Sep-96    Oct-96
Bid 6                     Supp/works     1       NCB         Apr-96    May-96    Aug-96                 Aug-96
Bid 7                     Supp/works     1       NCB         Apr-96    May-96    Aug-96                 Aug-96
Bid 8                     Supp/works     1       NCB         Apr-96    May-96    Aug-96                 Aug-96
Bid 9                     Supp/works     1       NCB         Apr-96    May-96    Aug-96                 Aug-96
TRACKS
Bid 10                      Works        1       NCB        May-96      Jun-96    Sep-96                Sep-96
Bid 11                      Works        1       NCB        May-96      Jun-96    Sep-96                Sep-96
Bid 12                      Works        1       NCB        May-96      Jun-96    Sep-96                Sep-96
Bid 13                      Works        1       NCB        May-96      Jun-96    Sep-96                Sep-96
Bid 14                      Works        1       NCB        May-96      Jun-96    Sep-96                Sep-96
Bid 15                      Works        1       NCB        May-96      Jun-96    Sep-96                Sep-96
Bid 16                      Works        1       NCB        May-96      Jun-96    Sep-96                Sep-96
Bid 17                      Works        1       NCB        May-96      Jun-96    Sep-96                Sep-96
SYSTEMS
Bid 18(SMT)               Supp/works     1       NCB        May-96      Jun-96    Sep-96                Sep-96
Bid 19(SRP)               Supp/works     1       NCB        May-96      Jun-96    Sep-96                Sep-96
Bid 20(SINAL)             Supp/works     1       NCB        May-96      Jun-96    Sep-96                Sep-96
WORKSHOPS
Bid 21                      Works        1       NCB         Jun-96     Jul-96    Oct-96                 Oct-96
Bid 22                      Works        1       NCB         Jun-96     Jul-96    Oct-96                 Oct-96
Bid 23                      Works        1       NCB         Jun-96     Jul-96    Oct-96                 Oct-96
Bid 24                      Works        1       NCB         Jun-96     Jul-96    Oct-96                 Oct-96
WAGON CONVERSION
Bid 25
-Lot 1                   Supp/works     1       NCB         Jun-96     Jul-96    Oct-96                 Oct-96
-Lot 2                   Supp/works     1       NCB         Jun-96     Jul-96    Oct-96                 Oct-96
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE   Services    Several   NCB             Jun-96     Jul-96    Sep-96                Sep-96
RETRAINING PACKAGES    Services    Several   NCB            May-96      Jul-96    Aug-96                Sep-96
Sources: RFFSA and Mission Estimates
May 1996



- 99 -                                Annex 11
FEDERAL RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Table 4 - Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount
Loan Category                               ($ million)  Disbursement Rates
1. Separation Grants                           170.0   50% of total expenditures
2. Goods and Services                           95.0    80% of total expenditures
3. Goods                                        20.0   100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local ex-factory cost
4. Civil Works                                  25.0    80% of total expenditures
5. Consultants & Training                               100% of total expenditures
(a) retraining and outplacement              15.0
(b) technical assistance and training         5.0
6. Unallocated                                  20.0
Total                                        350.0
Table 5 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year         Disbursement                  Cumulative Disbursements
Quarter ending           in Quarter (US$m.)       (US$m.)              % of total
FY 1997
September 30, 1996 1/    80.0                      80.0                23
December 31, 1996        20.0                      100.0               29
March 31, 1997           25.0                      125.0               36
June 30, 1997            25.0                      150.0               43
FY 1998
September 30, 1997       25.0                      175.0               50
December 31, 1997        25.0                      200.0               57
March 31, 1998           25.0                      225.0               64
June 30, 1998            25.0                      250.0               71
FY 1999
September 30, 1998       20.0                      270.0               77
December 31, 1998        20.0                      290.0               83
March 31, 1999            10.0                     300.0               86
June 30, 1999             10.0                     310.0               89
FY 2000
September 30, 1999        10.0                     320.0               91
December 31, 1999        10.0                      330.0               94
March 31, 2000            5.0                      335.0               96
June 30, 2000             5.0                      340.0               97
FY 2001
September 30, 2000        5.0                      345.0                99
December 31, 2000 2/      5.0                      350.0               100
Sources: RFFSA and Bank Mission
1/ includes initial deposits less than US$40 million into Special Account
2/ loan Closing Date
May 1996



- 100-
BRAZIL                                                                                Annex 11
I                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Chart I
FEDERAL RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
1996                     1                   1997
ID     Task Name                            Durat       Start        Finish        Qtr 4      Qtr 1      Qtr 2    Otr 3        Qtr 4  | Qtr 1         Qtr 2   |Qtr 3   | Qtr 4
1      LOAN PROCESSING                         80d       5113196       8130196
2            Loan Negobations                   lw        5/13/98      5/17/96
3            Board Review & Approval           14d         6/3/19     6&20/96                              I-s
4            Loan Signing                       Od        6121/96       6/28/96
5            Loan Effectiveness                46d       6/28196        /130/96
6      OPERATIONS RESTRUCTURING &             523d         1/1196     12131197
7            Oeste                             95d         111196    5110196             _        _
8                 separation of assets          ld         1/1/96        1/1/96
9                  pre-qualification           27d        1/29196        3/5/96
10                 auction                       Od        315/96        3/5/96
11                 contract negotiations &      45d       3/11/96       5/10/96
12           Cento-Leste                       165d         111196     8111796                            .
13                 separation of assets         55d         1/1/96      3/15/96
14                 pre-qualification            34d       4/30/96       6/14/96
15                 auction                       Od       6/14/96       6/14/96
16                 contract negotiations &      45d       6/17/96       8/17/96
17           Suldeste                          232d       51/96        3/20/.97           .
18                 separation of assets         65d        5/1/96       7/30/96
19                 pre-qualification            67d       8/15t96      11115/96
20                 auction                       Od      11 16/96      11/18/96
21                 contract negotiations &      B9d      11/16/96       3/20/97
22           Sul                               188d         81/96       4/21/97                                     _
23                 separation of assets         66d         811/96     10/31/96
24                 pre-qualification            60d      11/25/96       2/14/97
25                 auction                       Od       2114/97       2114/97
26                 contract negotiations &      42d       2/21/97       4/21/97
27            Tubarao                          155d         213/97       9/S997 l.                                                      ;__
28                 separation of assets         20d         213/97      2Q26/97
29                 pre-qualification            66d       3/14/97       6/13/97
30                 auction                       Od       6/13/97       6/11397
31                 contract negobations &       60d       6/16/97         9/5/97
32            Nordeste                         2184d        313/97     12/31/97
33                 separation of assets         66c         3/3/97        6/2197
Page 1



as  as {   as~~~c as   as   as  as   ci in  En  ci  s i  n  in  us  a.. a1 a     a        -a   a       aD   a   a.    CA  Ca  w    i   i      -
cns   n      w            o .  (a in      -4j  as  as a iw N           CD  i   a*  -4   U   in   t   t   W   -L             coi  'J  as  as   a
--i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
a                                                                    0aZ
ii  0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
0   0  -                                         (5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a 
g    12  a                       a                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a  C
a,a      (   VL   a            a                                       a        a   a           m.
as  a              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~a  a               a
a  a      a   (A           is           (A  ~  ~  1   a,      
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c



- 102 -
BRAZIL                                                                             Annex 11
Chart 1
FEDERAL RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
1996                                        1997
ID     Task Name                           Durat      Start        Finish       Qtr 4      Otr I     Otr 2      Qtr 3      Qtr 4      Qtr 1      Qtr 2      Otr 3      Qtr 4
67           site sureys                      316d       3/15/96      5130/97
68           training of environmental staff    370d      8/1/9      12/31t97                                                                  -
69     Regulatory Reform (RRC)               449d        4115196     12131197
70           technical assistance             132d       4/15/96     10/15196
71          ftaining of regulatory staff      370d        8/1/98     12/31197
72           establishment of COFER             Od      12/31t97     12t3t/97
73     Financial Restructuring & Settleme    327d        101196     12/31/97
74           real estate management conur    327d        10/1/9      12131197
75     Project Management                     523d         11iiSs    12/31197
76           project management contract      327d       10/11t9     12/31/97
77           computerized project manage      196d        1/1/96      9/30/96
Page 3



- 103 -                                                                          Annex 11
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Chart 2 - RFFSA Reorganization Chart
AD ENISITRATNEI
COUN)5CIL
SETTLEMENT                                           CAAAI                                           PAON
DVSMSON                                            DM90                                               mSGA
-4~4
ESITATE                          ANDI EI-SAEETY                                                                        L TEC" C              ---T----- -
I  I                                                                          -    --I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--  ---
._   ____,_____.   _  ......  ...  _ j .. _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T........ ..   ...
*     I                 r ~~ASMINSTRATIDN _       CONTROL                                     -&NARIWBT                   I    8I __ 
UNIT5 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~EET   -    OIT 
CENTRO LEST  E5TT
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                          DEE_
LEGEND
UNITS TO BE CLOSED
TRANSITORY UTNTS
PERMANENT UNITS



- 104 -                                 Annex 12
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Project Monitoring and Supervision Plan
1.    In order to effectively manage the implementation of the project, RFFSA has established a Project
Management Unit (PMU) and will contract project management assistance from a specialized Project
Management firm (PM). RFFSA, during project preparation, has started to develop and establish an
appropriate computerized project management system (CPMS) to monitor the implementation of the
project, including producing adequate information to report to RFFSA management, the Government, and
to the Bank. RFFSA will finalize the system and, on the basis of the CPMS, prepare and forward
quarterly progress reports to the Bank, not later than one month after the end of each quarter.
2.      The Bank will supervise and monitor the implementation of the project in accordance with the
Plan presented on the next page. In the course of project implementation, the Bank will in particular
review and approve: (a) disbursement applications for severance payments, on a sample basis; (b) all
procurement documentation for contracts for goods, services and civil works at or above the prior review
thresholds; (c) the terms of reference, invitation letters, short-lists and draft contract for consultant
services; and (d) the quarterly progress reports. In addition, substantial Bank input will be needed during
the first two years of the project in order to: (e) closely supervise and monitor the implementation of the
staff retrenchment program, in order to derive lessons for future reform operations; and (f) provide
guidance on the development, monitoring and evaluation of the regulatory aspects of the concessions, in
particular for the Sudeste and the Nordeste concessions. The estimates of Bank supervision inputs into
key activities, which are shown in the table of this annex, take into consideration the expected support
needed by RFFSA and the Government to effectively implement the project.
3.     The Bank will monitor the implementation and the impacts of the project against the agreed
project implementation plan (PIP), including the implementation timeschedule, the procurement timetable
and the set of implementation and development objective indicators which are set forth in the PIP
(Annex 11). Detailed reviews of the implementation of the project would be carried out in June each year
during project implementation and when 50% of the loan amount allocated to separation grants has been
disbursed. The reviews would cover all the agreed actions, target dates, and implementation indicators
included in the PIP and the status of compliance with all covenants of the Loan and Project Agreements.
Particular importance would be given to: (a) progress in the restructuring and concessioning process;
(b) staff reductions, re-training and outplacement assistance; (c) progress under the emergency
rehabilitation program and the environmental management component; and (d) progress under the
financial restructuring and settlement program, including achievement of targets for sale of non-rail assets
and reduction of debt. The Bank would have the right to exercise appropriate remedies if performance
is not satisfactory.



-105 -                                      Annex 12
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities
Approx.    Key Activities                            Expected Skill
Dates                                               Requirements
09196     Project Launch Workshop and supervision,   Task Manager
incl. conditions of effectiveness and     Regulation Specialist
organizational arrangements, and         Personnel Management Specialist
regulatory arrangements for Sudeste.     Procurement Specialist
1 2/96    Supervision Mission: review progress on   Task Manager
staff retrenchment, contracting and       Environment Specialist
execution of rehabilitation and TA,       Financial Specialist
regulation, Nordeste model, and financial    Railway Engineer
restructuring.
06/97     Detailed Review: review progress under all  Task Manager
components and impacts against indicators  Personnel Management Specialist
and targets, compliance with covenants,    Environment Specialist
identify deviations and agree on corrective   Railway Engineer
actions, benchmarks and remedies.
1 2/97    Supervision Mission: review progress under  Task Manager
all components, including actions and     Railway Engineer
benchmarks agreed at detailed review.    Organization Specialist
06/98     Detailed Review: review progress under all  Task Manager
components and impacts against indicators  Personnel Management Specialist
and targets, loan covenants, identify    Railway Engineer
deviations and agree on corrective actions,  Environment Specialist
benchmarks and remedies.
1 2/98    Supervision Mission: review completion    Task Manager
and post-evaluation of staff retrenchment   Railway Engineer
and emergency rehabilitation programs,   Financial Specialist
and progress on technical assistance and
training.
1 999     Two Supervision Missions                  Task Manager
Railway Engineer
2000      Two Supervision Missions                  Task Manager
Railway Engineer
2001      Loan Closing                              Task Manager
(Implementation Completion Report)       Railway Engineer
Total Staff Input:                        120 staff-weeks



-106 -                                                 Annex 13
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Table 1 - Transportation Expenditures by Mode1'
PASSENGER                           US$m.               CARGO                   US$m.
AIR                                    3360             AIR                      998
- Domestic                             1231             - Domestic               301
regular                              1160               regular                267
regional                               71               regional                14
- International                        2129             - Intemational           696
AIRPORTS                                182             RAIL                    1659
- RFFSA                 999
RAIL                                    605             - FEPASA                 374
- Interurban                              3             - EFVM                   286
- Suburban                              350
- Metro                                 252             ROAD                   35245
- Truck               35245
ROAD                                 43267                urban                13917
- Bus                                  6177              intermunicipal        11120
urban                                3257               interstate+intl      10208
intermunicipal                       2115
interstate + intl                     804              PORTS (Portobras)       590
- Auto                                37090
WATER                  5479
- inland                141
- coastal               533
- international        1905
TOTAL                     47414                    TOTAL           43970
Sources:   Anuario Estatistico dos Transportes - GEIPOT - 1992/93
Perfil das Empresas Estatais - SEST/SEPLAN 1985
Empresas de Transporte Rodoviario - FIBGE 1990/92
Estudo sobre o Transporte Rodoviario de Cargo - GEIPOT 1995
1994 Estimates of public and private service expenditures
GDP in 1994 reached US$ 430 billion, in US$ of June 1994
May 1996



- 107                                                             Annex 13
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Table 2 - Evolution of National and Transportation Aggregates
GROSS PRODUCT
GDP                                                                                              DiESEL                TKM              PASS.KMI
YEAR                   INDEX              AGRICULTURE   INDUSTRY                   SERVICES   TRANSPOiR                 CONSUiMPTION   (GEIPOT)    (GEEPOI)
1970                   100                100                   100                100             100                  100                   100               100
1971                   111                110                   112                III             115                  110                   109               113
1972                   125                115                   128                125             124                  128                   115               129
1973                   142                115                   149                145             148                  149                   133               147
1974                   164                116                   162                160             170                  165                   159               167
1975                   162                124                   170                168             187                  184                   174               190
1976                   178                127                   190                187             211                  212                   189              217
1977                   187                142                   185                197             224                  227                   208              253
1978                   196                138                   209                209             243                  248                   225              289
1979                   210                145                   223                225             287                  270                   247              328
1980                   229                159                   243                245             297                  290                   208              374
1981                   219                171                   222                240             282                  281                   209              389
1982                   220                170                   222                245             287                  287                   287              405
1983                   212                189                   209                243             281                  283                   268              421
1984                   224                175                   223                253             293                  292                   296              438
1985                   241                193                   241                269             312                  304                   327              456
1986                   260                177                   270                291             347                  342                   355              476
1987                   269                204                   272                301             353                  382                   379              493
1988                   268                205                   265                308             379                  375                   403              510
1989                   278                211                   273                320             393                  385                   411              533
1990                   287                203                   201                317             376                  378                   423              552
1991                   289                209                   245                323             388                  395                   448              573
1992                   267                220                   237                323             397                  405                   427              589
1993                   278                218                   253                334             413                  n.a.                  n.a.             n.a.
1994                   294                235                   270                348             430                  n.a.                  n.a.             n.a.
GROWTH RATE:
70-80                  8.63               4.73                  9.30               9.39             11.11               11.29                 10.40             14.09
80-90                  1.54               2.52                  0.29               2.81            2.80                 2.68                  4.53              3.96
90-94                  2.45               3.75                   1.92              2.29            3.28                 3.58                  0.55              3.33
ABSOLUTE
VALUE '                519910             68334                  178241            273813          20548                26410                 566078            684089
(1990 US$ million)                                                                                                      (1000 M3)             (10E9 TKM)        (IOE9 PASS. KM)
Sources: Anuario Estatistico dos Transportes - GEIPOT
Anuario Estatistico do CND
Anuario Estatistico do Brasil - IBGE
I/ year of latest available data
2/ Latest available data
May 1996



- 108 -                                                                Annex 13
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Table 3 - Freight Railway Productivity Ratios (1994 or Latest Available Year)
Traffic   Traffic Units   FRT Rev/
Ton-km  Passenger-Km                        No. of      Units/km   per Employee          T-km
(million)     (million)     Line Km     Employees          (000)          (000)  (94 US cents)
ARGENTINA 1.                           6,485                       29,118         5,151           223          1,259            4.6
NCA                                   1,189                        4,520           865           263          1,375            4 9
FEPSA                                  982                         5,163           575           190          1,708            4 3
FerrosurRoca                           854                         4,791           808           178          1,057            5.0
Bs. As al Pacifico                    2,029                        5,493         1,079           369          1,880            3.8
Mesopotamico                           620                         2,751           524           225          1.183
Belgrano                               811                         6,400         1,300           127            624            5.2
CHILE FREIGHT (FEPASA) 2.              1,111                        2,200           800           505          1,389            6.3
BRAZIL (RFFSA)                        39,193                       21,715        40,581          1,805           966            4.7
Nordeste                               926                         4,260         4,402           217            210            6.5
Centro-Leste                          6,886                        7,092         8,608           971            800            6.2
Sudeste                              20,370                        1,770         9,982         11,508         2,041            3.9
Sul                                   9,019                        6,814        10,208          1.324           884            5.3
Tubarao                                  96                         168            351           571            274            3.8
Bauru                                 1,916                        1,611         2,655          1 189           722            4.8
BRAZIL (FEPASA)- 1994                  6,520         1,100          4,929        15,319          1,546           497            6.7
BRAZIL (EFVM) - 1994                  50,137                         898          4.991        55,832         10,045            na
BRAZIL (Carajas) - 1994               37,500                        1,175         1,814        31,915         20.673            na
BOLIVIA (1993)                          697                         3,698         5,255           188            133            8.9
Andina                                 322            114          2,082         2,443           209            203
Oriental                               370                         1,383         1,431           268            380
MEXICO (FNM)                          37,200                       20,445        48.000          1,820           775            6.2
Northwest (est)                      17,200                        6,200        21,300         2,774            808
Northeast (est)                      14,000                        3,960         9.830         3,535          1,424
Southeast (est)                       3,200                        2,200         9,043          1,455           354
Short Lines                           2,900                        8,000         7,827           363            371
PERU (1994)                             484            241          1,609         3 337           450            217            1.8
Southeastern                             5             83           185                          474
Central                                209             49           509                          507
Southern                               269            110           915                          414
GUATEMALA (94 est)                        28           240           640            430           420            624            na
SUB-SAHARAN AFRICAN RAILWAYS
Cote d'lvoire/Burkina Faso             371            125           651          1,887           762            263            7.0
Cameroun                               592            450          1,006         3,853          1,036           270            1.6
Malawi                                  52             65           789          3 658           148             32            3.4
Gabon                                  295             98           683          1,893           575            208            5.0
Congo                                  339            421           510          4,989          1,490           152            7.1
Senegal/Mali (intl only)               752            346          1,548         4,935           709            222            0.3
Zambia                                1,025           241          1,273         8,544           995            148            2.0
Togo (mgt contract)                      19             9           532            800            53             35            na
MOROCCO                                4.877         2,233          1,907        14,085          3,728           505            59
NEW ZEALAND                            2,455           525          4,000         4,500           745            662            0.3
US RAILWAYS
Conrail 3.                          128,627                       19,082        24,728          6,741         5,202            2.7
DSRGW                                25,596                        3,515         2,274         7,282         11,256            1.4
CANADIAN NATIONAL                    159,540                       29.700        27,979          5,372         5,702            3.8
Sources' RFFSA and Mission Estmates
1. Concessioned between 1993 and 1995. Suburban passenger concessions not shown.
2. Concessioned in June. 1995
3. Privatzed in 1987
May 1996



- 109 -                                                                       Annex 13
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Table 4 - RFFSA Traffic, Productivity and Financial Ratios, 1958-1995
Working      Operating
Traffic"                        Locomotive                 PRODUCTI\ATY AND EFFICIENCY MEASURES                     Ratio %      Ratio (%)
Tonnes   Ton-Km       Pass.      P-Km       Units    Track  Employees   Nb.         avail. Wagons   Avg Haul   TUIKm  TUJEmp  TUILOC TU/Wag   (Rev-Norm)/  (Rev-Norm)/
Year      (000)  (miilion)  [million)  (miilion)  imiiliont     KM              _-            I)    Nb.           (Ki)       (0001    (000)    (0001   (000)         OPS EXP  Est total cost
58    27,496      6,928       340     12,000    18.928   28,776        157,311    na.      n a     n a          252        658       120    na        n a              47             36
59   29,509      7,635        359     12,000    19.635   28,728        154,266    n a      n a    n a           259        683      127    n a        n a              43             33
60    29,769     7,791        371     12,914    20.705   28,809        153,539    n a      n a     n a          262        719      135    n a        n.a              41             31
61   29,224       7,828       400     13,830    21.658   28,679        153,007    n a      n a    n a           268        755      142    n a        n a              35             27
62    28,997     8,089                14,675    22.764   27,927        153,153    n a      n a     n a          279        815      149    n a        n a              30             23
63    27,674     8,071                14,082    22.153   27.260        154,001    n a      n a    n a           292        813      144    n a        n a              27             21
64    28.826     8,554                13,529    22,083   26,519        153,434    n a      n a    n a           297        633      144    n a        n a              28             21
65    29,596     9,201        353     13,093    22,294   26,114        145,821    na       na     na            311        654      153    na         n.a              40             30
66    29,413     9,631        302     10,532    20,163   25,093        137,712    na       na     na            327        604      146    n a        na               43             33
67    28,564     9,462        293      9,680    19,162   25,116        132.533    n a      n a    n a           332        763      145    n a        n a              42             32
68    30,495     10,464       313      9,993    20,457   24,864        127,427    n a      n a    n a           343        823      161    n a        n a              53             41
69    32,141     10,570       303      9,497    20,067   25,313        125,230    n a      n a    n a           329        793      160    n.a        n a              54             41
70    33,075     12,232       283      8,704    20,936   25,101        124,833    n a      n a    n a           370        834      168    n a        na               58             45
71   30,589     11,580        261      7,764    19,344   24,772        121,492    na      na      na            379        781      159    na        na                54             42
72    30,995     11,859       265      7,988    19,847   24,546        116,337    na       na     na            383        809      171    na         na               60             46
73   35,492     14,150        259      7,802    21,952   24,064        113,851    n a     n a     n a           399        912      193    n.a       n a               63             48
74    43,292    18,249                 7,813    26.062   24,119        111,846    na      na      na            422      1,081      233    na        na                67             51
75   46,446     19,851        243      7,628    27.479   24,491        110,279    na      na      na            427      1,122      249    n a       na                44             34
76   51,090    23,447                  8,686    32,133   24,163        110,279    n a     n a     n a           459      1,330      291    n.a       n a               38             29
77    53,519    25,251                 8,858    34.109   23,649         95,160    n a      n a    n a           472      1,442      356    n a        n a              52             40
78    54,219    25,202                 9,191     34.393   23,809        94,931    n a      n a    n a           465      1,445      362    n a        n a              51             39
79   60,921    27,689         336      8,746    36,435   23,897         94,959    n a     n a     n a           455      1,525      384    n.a       n a               55             42
80    70,760    33,260        370      9,460    42,720   23.951         89,420    2,090   88 9    47,570        470      1,784      478    20,440      699             99             76
81    67,856    31,087        384     10,018    41,105   23,171         88,325    2,146   87 7    47,897        458      1,774      465    19,154      649             96             74
82    69,828    31,687        396     10,386    42,073   23,087         84.632    2,221   87 1    47,411        454      1,822      497    18.943      668             87             67
83    69,774    29,633        429     11,033    40666   23,083          82,982    2,261   899     47,341        425      1,762      490    17,986      626            101             78
84    76,938    33,526        507       1,860    35386   22,837         85,736    2,328   924     47,175        436      1,550      413    15,200      711            101             78
85    82.622    37,176         50       1,688    38,864   22,184        67,522    1,669   886     46,533        450      1,752      576    23,286      799            101             77
86    85,661    38,768         46      1,742    40,510   22,057         63,878    1,590   87 7    46,397        453      1,837      634    25,478      836            116             89
87    82 259    37,264         41      1,469    38,733   22,067         62.829    1,590   81 9    45,120        453      1,755      616    24,360      826            103             79
88    81,476    37,399          7        700    38.099   21,865         58,683    1,561   83 0    43,867        459      1 742      649    24,407      853             87             67
89    81.149    37,609          6        427    36,036   22,137         58,449    1,545   823     42984         463      1,718      651    24,619      875             88             68
90    75,210    34,553          6        453    35,006   22,029         52,976    1,545   79 1    41 930        459      1,589      661    22,658      824             54             42
91   80,579    36,402           5        401    36 803   22,029         49,341    1,516   77 5    41 837        452      1,671      746    24,276      870             65             50
92    80,689    37,057                           37,057   22.011        47,759    1,431   759     41,492        459      1,684      776    25,896      893             91             70
93    85.618    39,803                           39,803   22,069        46,063    1,403   732     41,025        465      1,804      864    28,370      970            113             86
94    86,608    39,193                           39 193   22,069        44,646    1,396   69 5    40,544        453      1,776      878    28,075      967             86             66
95    83,012    36,388                           36,389   21,833        37,469    1,390   530     36342         438      1,663      971    26,178    1,001             64             43
Sources
1 Brazil The Brazilian Railroad industry Options for Organizational Restructuring, World Bank Report No 11752 BR, February 15, 1994
2 RFFSA, "Tabela de Origem e Destino - 1993
3 World Bank Railway Database
4 RFFSA, "Evolucao da Disponibilidade - locomotive availabilty for various Regions
5 RFFSA, "Receita de Transpone Faturada", "Producao em Miihoes de TKU', "Producao em Milhares de TU', all for 1990 - 1995(est)
6 RFFSA, "Plano Para o Banco Mundial, Versao IIE Agosto de 1995  Has maps and certain operational data
7 RFFSA, "Modelo Financeiro" Has financial projections for concessions for 1995-2000
8 RFFSA, "Programa Comercial" Has traffic data by product for 1992-1994 and projections for 1995, 1998 and 2000 for each concession
9 RFFSA, "Projeto de Reestructuracao e Desestatizacao da RFFSA" Agosto 1995
10 RFFSA, "RFFSA- Documento de Trabalho - Prelimmnar'
1 1 Svejnar and Terrell "Labor redundancy in theTransport Sector The Case of Brazili, World Bank Research project no 675-21
Note 1/ Traffic Units are the sum of ton-km and passenger-km
May 1996



- 110 -                                                   Annex 13
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Table 5 - RFFSA's Investments
(1987- 1994)
1987      1988       1989       1990       1991       1992       1993      1994
Broad Gauge Network:                    68.7      126.6       48.2       18.4       11.4        1.9       2.0       0.8
Ferrovia do Aco (SR3)                  17.2       86.2       31.6       6.0        2.0        1.2        0.2       0.1
Central Line                           15.9       18.5        5.0        1.1        0.5       0.2        1.7       0.6
Other                                 35.6       21.9       11.6       11.3        8.9        0.5        0.2       0.1
Meter Gauge Network                     88.0      109.1       79.5       35.7       35.2      62.1       58.1      37.1
Parana Corridor                        29.9       40.3       28.6        7.5      12.3       30.3       20.6      19.0
Goias Minas Corridor                   28.9       42.9       37.1       11.5       6.9       22.3       35.0      16.9
Other                                  29.2       25.9       13.8       16.7       16.0       9.5        2.5       1.2
Motive Power/Rolling Stock              42.5       17.4       11.2        9.8        4.0       2.0        2.4       9.7
Miscellaneous                           12.0       14.1       15.1        5.7       11.8       1.0        1.1      10.0
TOTAL RFFSA                            211.2      267.2      154.0       69.6      62.4       67.0       63.7      57.5
Sources: RFFSA and Mission Estimates
Table 6 - RFFSA -- Statements of Income
(US$ millions)
1988      1989       1990       1991       1992       1993       1994
Gross Operating Revenues               753.0      706.0      668.0      752.0     851.1      757.8      799.4
Other Income                            37.0       24.0       45.0       43.0       26.5      28.1       35.8
Gross Revenues                       790.0      730.0      713.0      795.0      877.6      785.9      835.2
Less Taxes                               0.0       38.0       42.0       59.0       39.0      34.5       40.9
Net Operating Revenues                790.0      692.0      671.0     736.0      838.6      751.4      794.3
"Normalization Payments" '              96.0       81.0       38.0      113.0       10.6       14.5      21.3
TOTAL Net REVENUES                   886.0      773.0      709.0     849.0      849.2      765.9      815.6
Operating Expenses-- Regional          868.0      914.0      809.0      948.0     791.5      816.2      935.3
Operating Expenses-- Headquarters      408.0      193.0      381.0      203.0       38.3      34.2       39.4
Total Operating Expenses             1276.0    1107.0    1190.0    1151.0        829.8      850.4      974.7
NET OPERATING INCOME                  -390.0    -334.0    -481.0    -302.0          19.4     -84.5    -159.1
Sources: RFFSA and Mission Estimates
' Normalization payments are payments made by the Government to RFFSA to compensate for public service oblligations.
May 1996



- 111 -                                  Annex 14
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Bank Documents
1.    Initial Project Information Document, June 30, 1995
2.     Preparation Mission Aide-Memoire. September 1995
3.     Preparation Mission Aide-Memoire, October 1995
4.     Pre-appraisal Mission Aide-Memoire, February 1996
5.     Final Executive Project Summary, April 5, 1996
6.     Staff Retrenchment Program, Retraining and Outplacement Assistance
7.     Procurement Schedule for Major Contracts
Borrower and/or RFFSA Documents
8.     Anuario Estatistico das Ferrovias do Brasil, MT/DTF, 1995
9.     Regulamnento dos Transportes Ferroviarios, Decreto No. 1832 de 4 de Mar,o de 1996
10.    Medida Provisoria No. 1342 de 12 de Marco de 1996 (Creation of COFER)
11.    Avaliacao Econ6mica-Financeira. Malha Oeste, Rel. Conclusivo. BNDES/Ernst & Young
12.    Avaliac,o Econ6mica-Financeira, Malha Oeste, Rel. Conclusivo, BNDES/ENEFER
13.    Edital No. PND/A-05/95/RFFSA, Concessao Malha Oeste, BNDES/RFFSA
14.    Prospectus Notice No. PND/A-05/95/RFFSA, Concession of Western Network, BNDES/RFFSA
15.    Relatorio Anual, RFFSA, 1994
16.    Projeto de Reestrutura,co e Desestatiza,ao da Rede Ferroviaria Federal SA, Out. 95
17.    Proposta de Readequa,co dos Procedimentos de Opera,co e Manutenpio, RFFSA, Out. 95
18.    Proposta de Readequac,o dos Procedimentos de Opera,co e Manutencao, RFFSA, Dez. 95
19.    Projeto de Treinamento e Reemprego de Pessoal, RFFSA, Out. 95
20.    Minirniza,co dos Custos Sociais da Privatiza,co. RFFSA. A. Urani, IPEA, Dez. 95
21.    Draft Technical Assistance Contract between RFFSA and Funda,ao Getulio Vargas, Nov. 95
22.    Contract No. 032/95 between RFFSA and Funda,co Getulio Vargas, Dec. 4, 95
23.    Situa,co da Frota de Locomotivas, RFFSA, Sept. 95
24.    Programa de Racionaliza,co de Oficinas, RFFSA, Dez. 95
25.    Seguran,a Industrial e Meio Ambienite, Diretrizes Ambientais Para a RFFSA, A,ces
26.    Seguranca Industrial e Meio Ambiente, Legisla,ao e Regulamenta,co
27.    Programa de ManutenSao de Locomotivas, RFFSA (2 volumes)
28.    Programa de Recuperacao de Vagoes, RFFSA (2 volumes)
29.    Programa de Seguranca de Via e Anexos, RFFSA (5 volumes)
30.    Programa de Seguranra de Via, Sistemas, RFFSA
31.    Programa de Racionaliza,co de Oficinas, RFFSA
32.    Rela,co dos principais Imoveis da RFFSA corn Potencial para Explora,co, RFFSA
33.    Reestrutura,co e Organiza,co da RFFSA, Proposta, RFFSA, Abril 1996
34.    Plano de Acao para Alienac,o dos Ativos Nao Operacionais, RFFSA. Abril 1996
35.    Real Estate Management, Draft Terms of Reference, RFFSA, Abril 1996
36.    Outplacement and Monitorinig of Training, Draft Terms of Reference, RFFSA, Abril 1996
37.    Prestac,o de Servi,os de Auditoria Independenite, Termos de Referencia, Abril 1996



-112-                                   Annex 14
38.    Draft Cooperation Agreement between MT/DTF and RFFSA for supervision of concession
contracts
39.    Draft Terms of Reference for Environmental Assessment and Liability Reduction Plan
40.    Draft Terms of Reference for Non-Rail Asset Sale Program
41.    Draft Terms of Reference for Outplacement and Monitoring of Training Program
42.    Draft Terms of Reference for project Management Consultant
43.    Draft Standard Bidding Documents for Track Repair Works
44.    Draft Standard Bidding Documents for Signaling System Investments
45.    Draft Standard Bidding Documents for Telecommunication System Investments
46.    Letter dated May 24, 1996 from the President of RFFSA and attached Terms and Conditions of
the Staff Retrenchment Program



iBRD 27397
5  VENEZUELA                                 G)                           F R.                                                                                                                             B R A Z I L
\ -< (SuRINAME~GUIANA                                             0          250   500   750   1000 KILDMESRS                                      RA  ILVWAY S
COLOMBIA                                                                   J                                                                          0-.          250         4o5 7             50WLE5                            RFFSA REGIONS AND
>~~~                                                                                                                                     PLANNED CONCESSIONS
- .Nfl.                             'Q, D            ..                          d                                                                                                               NORTHEAST
- _                  U rP   t o S     do .o,o                                                                                    -          SR I RECIFE (METER GAUGE)
-  -   -  -  ~~~~~~~~~----SR (I P ORTALEZA (METER)
-~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                               Pork ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sanlan                                                              .......SR 1 2 SAG LUIS (METER)
By,                /                                                      It o do Norte                X OMongubo kEt;l                                                                                                          CENTRAL EAST
B.o do Non.   B.I.nn                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SR 2 BELO HORIZONTE (mETER)
-'  /                                                                  ')                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SR 7 SALVADOR (METER)
!SoOnko'*in                              )         ~           o05  L-.                                                                    SR 8 CAMPOS (METER)
Pornoiba                                             ~~~~~~~~~~SOUTHEAST
.' ,,!  /:                                                                        amba F  co                                          SR 3 JUIZ DE FORA (BROAD GAUGEI
.X'~~~~~~'                 I                                   k    5ct'          .           S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Mooor.p. ~~~~~~~~~~SR 4 SAO PAULO (BROAD)
!  I.~.'v" X                                                                  <e;einc;  Mossoro  Macau                               SOUTH
I  S.,ra do Coro,os0            P,quet Corn.,,                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SR 5 CURT(BA (METER)
p  /         S/ro de Co uic1           )                           Plque Corn,r V     ;)                                     ------  SR 6 PORTO ALEGRE (METER)
.4                                  I                                      /                                   Croro         0020                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TUBARAO
.         o             L3/                     - S>MISEO Veii; Jo   c   SR 9 TUBARAO (METER)
         Porno Veiho                                                                 0/                                     Sa(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u.oR  R.o,6                   RAURU~~~~~~~~~~~~S.9-BAR
                                              SNrto -elho                               \                                 evskl/                                  Solgul   d       o       R      clh.                          SR 10 BAURU (METER)
4.  .-~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                      Rornosro.                 *-. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PLANNED SECTIONS
"'N    "                                                                                                                                                        0Pr  ?  . noF'lroLno  S Mosia                      -        BROAD  GAUGE (FEPASA)
Pnopr,a             .~.Cff26i.METER GAUGE (PEPASA)
/   t   \  )  /   An nonio Cionooloes0  ProlIO.                    _-El" -METER GAUGE (EFVM)
P   E   R   UM e5eL\                                                         /                                                                                                   TT0su  r y STANDARD GAUGE (EBF CARAJAS)
P E R U  ~ ~~~~~'N/RIVERS
'So(oodon                                   0    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
"5                                                                                                                                           ' /  @    NAT(ON AL CAPITAL
"$0  p  I                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STATE BOUNDARIES
.  \   Clombo                                                          0 ,2B3RASILIA   OM1nle Asul                                     ---*'INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
G - -S .. Senodon Conedo ..  oIo d Pinapoo__
(~ B O  L I V  I A                                              \" .    -sunlt.ze roo-                                                                                    PANAMA    \ VENEZUELA 0'GUYANA
\  oCorvmbo   \   ~ \  oAroguoan T3io Horliv                  -                                 COLOMBIA  (  N .        \   (FRfNCO  GUIANA
N.                            /---          -        ySonio p. do Sw    Iombma    2t  TAnaoro                  ,10 >- F.td.S., 'OAU A:,  ...
-20- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2Manoo1                                                                                                  ,$'PoC.1ds 5"                   M.".                                                o
Cnozon_ r      t no0  0Paj una-.Ba   Su|                                            PERU                       R 3   P  A   Z  I L
5.-P.E O'                                                                                                           25
'-S                -'...  ~~~~~~~~PARAGUAY    I                    0 uhoOnmI.0%osR*o      Lndq.              d.uLa                                                                         OII
CHILE   ]                                        NA U Hanonono                                  0lonu           RAom3LIVIA   --?,
Baud.  ~~~~~~d.5k                                                                                          CHI
PA C IF IC                           S                                                                  \ oi "N"1          5~Brn  Pnaonhos                                                                                 _6 e                   NARAGUAY
O C E A N  i   J   j                                                                                       doVmnaMow  0SdoFnoncaoodoSuC
OCEAN  I.                                              '-....'..aa'.'Mano.I,flO Roonos                                                                                                                   / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L..ARGENTINA / ?-
J       COB       Rosa        0Lag..  Lnnbmkba                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~URUGUAY
7              U~~~~RLussng    0                                                                                                    )'i
,       A   R  G   E  N  T  I N  A                                             'C..g R.. d. onoAEj
j                              Uruquolonogt       ~~~        ~~      ~~~~- .  CosomaidaSul)
Unuguo.ono n              - oD P Porlo AlPgno                                              Thb.ondorm--... oLos. d-oooans                        \
2                                   (t:Dnnsnno      DPodcno                                                                    ood any onion, mmnfonnoaAODandn s. o"" -
o                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ihn map do 'nan iply, an A. pan a
/t                                                  *I'            N.,                                                                           TIn,O wod Bok Group, an  odgo on                       .
.,  \. ,0-                               6O'   I U RUGUAY (                        SOA                                                        any aasnndoo on                                                                                1 of
MARCH 1906









IMAG ING
Report No:      15580 BR
Type: SAR



