Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4046-BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Federal Railways Restructuring and Privatization Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
REDE FERROVIARIA FEDERAL S. A.
Dated September 17, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 4046-BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 17, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and REDE FERROVIARIA FEDERAL S.A. (RFFSA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Federative 
Republic of Brazil (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to three hundred and fifty 
million dollars ($350,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that RFFSA agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be 
made available by the Borrower to RFFSA through annual budgetary allocations;
WHEREAS RFFSA, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Page  2
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01.  (a) RFFSA declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Parts A.1, A.2 (b), B, C, D, F and G of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency, in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
environmental and rail transport practices, and substantially in accordance with the 
corresponding indicators and targets set forth in paragraph 1 of the Annex to the 
Project Monitoring Letter, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for such Parts of 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
RFFSA shall: (i) carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
the Staff Retrenchment Program; (ii) carry out the technical assistance and training 
of staff included in Part D.2 of the Project under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank; and (iii) not later than December 31, 1996, contract with the real estate 
management firm referred to in Part F of the Project in accordance with terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.02.  (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to 
this Agreement.
(b)
RFFSA shall act as the agent of the Borrower, for purposes of employing 
the consultants required to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of Part E of the 
Project.
Section 2.03.  (a) RFFSA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A.1, A.2 (b), B, 
C, D, F and G of the Project.
(b)
RFFSA shall assist the Borrower in the preparation of the plan referred 
to in Section 3.10 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04.  RFFSA shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
Section 2.05. (a)  RFFSA shall, to the extent possible, during the execution of 
the Project, maintain an updated database on the employment status of RFFSA's staff 
who shall have received Separation Grants, and provide the Bank with information on 
such employment status through the quarterly reports referred to in Section 2.08 of 
this Agreement.
(b)
RFFSA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by RFFSA of its obligations under this 
Agreement.
Section 2.06.  RFFSA shall, not later than 90 days after the date of this 
Agreement:
(a)
employ, pursuant to the provisions of Section II of the Schedule to this 
Agreement, a Project management consultant to assist RFFSA in the carrying out of Part 
G of the Project; and
(b)
complete the installation of the computerized Project management system 
referred to in Part G of the Project.
Section 2.07.  RFFSA shall:
(a)
restructure and thereafter maintain, until the completion of the Project, 
the PMU with staff, responsibilities and functions satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
provide, promptly as needed all the funds, facilities, staff and 
resources required by the PMU to carry out its functions and responsibilities in a 
timely and efficient manner.
Page  3
Section 2.08.  RFFSA shall  be responsible, with respect to any concession 
contract referred to in Part A.2 of the Project, for any environmental liabilities 
resulting from the transferred services, which may be unknown at the time of the 
signing of the concession contract and cannot be attributed to a given concessionaire 
due to the concessionaire's act or omission.
Section 2.09.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement, RFFSA shall:
(a)
until the completion of the Project, prepare and furnish to the Bank, not 
later than January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 30 of each year, beginning in 
October of 1996, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request on the progress in the execution of the Project and the compliance 
by the Borrower and RFFSA of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and 
the Project Agreement (including the indicators and targets set forth in the Project 
Monitoring Letter), each such report to cover the three-month period ending on 
December 31, March 31, June 30 and September 30, as the case may be, immediately 
preceding the issuance of such report; and
(b)
In the month of June of each year during Project implementation, conduct 
a comprehensive review with the Bank and the Borrower of the matters referred to in 
paragraph (a) above, and thereafter take, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, all 
measures which may be recommended during such review as required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the attainment of the objectives thereof, 
provided, however, that when 50% of the amount  set forth in Category 1 of the table 
set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement shall have been 
disbursed, a comprehensive review shall take place promptly thereafter.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of RFFSA
Section 3.01.  RFFSA shall carry on its activities and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, rail transport and environmental 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in numbers as substantially set forth in the corresponding indicators 
and targets set forth in paragraph 1 of the Annex to the Project Monitoring Letter.
Section 3.02.  RFFSA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and rail transport practices.
Section 3.03.  RFFSA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a) RFFSA shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
RFFSA shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
Page  4
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02.  RFFSA shall take all steps necessary to generate revenues from 
its rail and non-rail assets, and to reduce its debts substantially in accordance with 
the corresponding targets set forth in the Project Monitoring Letter.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01.  This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02.  This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of RFFSA 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify RFFSA  thereof.
Section 5.03.  All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01.  Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other  address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
For RFFSA:
Rede Ferrovi ria Federal S.A.
Praa Procpio Ferreira, 86 - 11 andar
20224-030, Rio de Janeiro - RJ
Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
RFFE
(021) 21372
 
Section 6.02.  Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of RFFSA, may be 
taken or executed by the President of RFFSA or such other person or persons as such 
President shall designate in writing, and RFFSA shall furnish to the Bank sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03.  This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
Page  5
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
REDE FERROVIARIA FEDERAL S.A.
By /s/ Jos Alexandre Noguira de Resende
   /s/ Jos Antonio Schmitt de Azevedo
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
 
The invitation to bid for each contract to be awarded pursuant to the provisions 
of this Part B shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to 
large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
 
Contracts for works or for the supply of goods and their installation estimated 
to cost less than $5,000,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $45,000,000, 
in the case of works, and $35,000,000, in the case of supply of goods and their 
installation, and contracts for goods estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent 
but less than $350,000 equivalent per contract may be awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. In the procurement of goods 
and works under this Part C.1, standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank, in 
standardized form for the Project, shall be used.
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods and/or works to be 
Page  6
undertaken pursuant to this Part C.1 of this Schedule;
(a)
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to 
be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall 
always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for 
such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid;
(b)
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil;
(c)
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(consrcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in 
each case;
(d)
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; 
(e)
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or 
other terms and conditions of sale.
2.
Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national or international shopping procedures, 
at the option of RFFSA, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part B 
of this Section, the first two contracts for works and the first two contracts for the 
supply of goods and their installation to be awarded  pursuant to the provisions of 
Part C.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Part E:
Other
 
For purposes of this Schedule and the Guidelines, the term custom duties and 
other import taxes includes the Borrower's Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the 
Merchant Marine (Adicional ao Frete para a Renovaao da Marinha Mercante -AFRMM), 
established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree-Law No. 1142 of December 30, 1970, as 
amended on December 31, 1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable 
opinion of the Bank, may substitute it, in whole or in part, after January 1, 1988.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
Page  7
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or; (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
