Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4046-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Federal Railways Restructuring and Privatization Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 17, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 4046-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 17, 1996, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
Parts A.1, A.2 (b), B, C, D, F, and G of the Project will be carried out 
by Rede Ferrovi ria Federal S.A. (RFFSA) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part 
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to RFFSA the proceeds of the Loan 
as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and RFFSA (the 
Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
Page  2
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United 
Nations."
(c)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"CND" means  the Borrower's Conselho Nacional de Desestatizaao, 
established pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 8031, of April 12, 1990;
(b)
"DTF" means MT's Department of Rail Transport;
 
(c)
"MT" means the Borrower's Ministry of Transport;
 
(d)
"PMU" means the unit, within RFFSA, responsible for the coordination of 
the execution of the Project;
(e)
"Project Monitoring Letter" means the letter dated May 29, 1996, 
delivered by the Borrower's Minister of Transport and RFFSA to the Bank, setting forth 
the indicators and targets to be used in the monitoring of the progress in the 
implementation of the Project and in the evaluation of its results;
(f)
"Separation Grant" means a grant to be provided to a RFFSA's employee who 
has been separated from RFFSA, under Part B of the Project, in accordance with the 
Staff Retrenchment Program;
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(h)
"Staff Retrenchment Program" means the program described in RFFSA's 
letter to the Bank, dated May 23, 1996 for the carrying out of Part B of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various currencies that shall 
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of three hundred and fifty million 
dollars ($350,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a)  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, services and  separation Grants required for the Project described in Schedule 
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Page  3
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of  three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal 
to the 
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest 
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii)'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on 
March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08.  The Minister of Transport and any other person designated in 
writing by such Minister are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without 
Page  4
any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall:
(i)
carry out Parts A.2 (a) and E of the Project, through CND and MT, 
respectively, with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, environmental, rail 
transport and regulatory practices and substantially in accordance 
with the corresponding indicators and targets set forth in 
paragraph 1 of the Annex to the Project Monitoring Letter, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for such Parts of the Project;
(ii)
take all necessary steps in order to ensure that RFFSA performs in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the 
obligations of RFFSA therein set forth;
(iii)
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable RFFSA to perform such obligations, and shall 
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance.
(b)
As and when required for the timely execution of the Project, the 
Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to RFFSA through annual 
budgetary allocations.
(c)
The Borrower shall ensure that any concession contract referred to in 
Part A.2 of the Project shall provide that RFFSA will be responsible for any 
environmental liabilities resulting from the transferred services, which may be 
unknown at the time of the signing of the concession contract and cannot be attributed 
to a given concessionaire due to the concessionaire's act or omission.
Section 3.02.  (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower, through MT, shall use the services of RFFSA for the 
purposes of employing the consultants required to assist the Borrower in the carrying 
out of Part E of the Project.
Section 3.03.  The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A.1, A.2 
(b), B, C, D, F and G of the Project shall be carried out by RFFSA pursuant to Section 
2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than June 30, 1997, furnish to the Bank, for comments, a plan 
for the concessioning of the RFFSA's Northeast operation referred to in Part A.1 of 
the Project; and
(b)
implement such plan, promptly after receiving and taking into account the 
Bank's comments thereon.
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
through its Ministry of Transport, discuss with the other relevant 
ministries of the Borrower the following aspects: (i) the revision of the provisions 
of the Borrower's Law No. 8987, of February 13, 1995 (the Concession Law) for purposes 
of eliminating the requirement of setting-up tariffs in the railway concession 
contract, whenever such concession is awarded on the basis of the highest bid price; 
and (ii) the release of the rail transport operations from the price controls 
introduced by the Borrower's Law No. 9069, of June 29, 1995 (the Plano Real Law);
(b)
not later than December 31, 1996, furnish to the Bank, for comments, a 
preliminary report on the results of  the discussions referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, such report to take into account the experience with the existing 
oncessions for railways operations; and
Page  5
(c)
after taking into account the Bank's comments to such preliminary report, 
submit to its relevant competent authorities a final report on the areas referred to 
in paragraphs (a) (i) and (a) (ii) of this Section.
Section 3.06.  Before concessioning the RFFSA's Southeast and Northeast 
operations referred to in Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
furnish to the Bank, for comments, a draft of the mechanisms, criteria 
and guidelines to implement: (i) the captive shipper rate regulations set forth in the 
Borrower's Decree No. 1832, of March 4, 1996, before concessioning such Southeast 
operations; and (ii) the line abandonment regulations set forth in such Decree, before 
concessioning such Northeast operations; and
(b)
taking into account the Bank's comments thereon, put into effect the 
mechanisms, criteria and guidelines to implement such captive shipper rate regulations 
and such line abandonment regulations, promptly after the effectiveness of the 
concessioning of such Southeast 
and Northeast operations, respectively.
Section 3.07.  The Borrower shall complete the carrying out of Part E of the 
Project not later than December 31, 1996. 
Section 3.08.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than December 31, 1996, furnish to the Bank evidence, 
satisfactory to the Bank, that a decision has been taken by the Borrower to settle 
RFFSA's debt to the Borrower's National Social Security Institute so as to, inter 
alia, enable RFFSA to sell its non-rail assets;
(b)
no later than June 30, 1997, furnish to the Bank, for comments, a plan 
for RFFSA's financial restructuring and debt settlement, which shall have incorporated 
the decision referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section; and
(c)
implement such plan, promptly after receiving and taking into account the 
Bank's comments thereon. 
Section 3.09.  The Borrower, through MT, shall participate in the review 
referred to in Section 2.09 (b) of the Project Agreement, and shall provide any 
assistance required by RFFSA for purposes of preparing the reports referred to in 
Section 2.09 (a) of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.10.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall, with the assistance of RFFSA:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a)  The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices  the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A.2 (a) and 
E of the Project of CND and MT, respectively.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and the records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
Page  6
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
RFFSA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that RFFSA will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of RFFSA (or any successor thereto 
acceptable to the Bank) or for the suspension of its activities, so as to affect, in 
the opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the ability of RFFSA (or any 
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank) to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
(b)
The event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
this Agreement has been registered by the Central Bank of Brazil;
 
(b)
RFFSA's settlement division referred to in Part F of the Project has been 
established with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; and
Page  7
(c)
the PMU has been restructured pursuant to Section 2.07 (a) of the Project 
Agreement.
Section 6.02.  The following is specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that this Agreement has been registered by the Central Bank of Brazil; 
and
(b)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and 
is legally binding upon, RFFSA in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03.  The date December 17, 1996 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01.  Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the 
Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Ministirios - Bloco "P" - 8o. andar
70048-900, Braslia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINIFAZ
611506
Braslia
Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64l45 (MCI)
 
With copy to:
Ministrio do Planejamento e Oramento
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministrios, Bloco "K" - 5 andar
70040-906, Braslia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
611146
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  8
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Snia de Almendra Portella Castro
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                         Amount of the
                        Loan Allocated            % of
                        (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category         Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Separation Grants    170,000,000        50% of amounts
                                             paid by RFFSA
(2)  Supply and            95,000,000        80%
     installation of goods
(3)  Goods                 20,000,000        100% of foreign
                                             expenditures; 100%
                                             of local expenditures
                                             (ex-factory cost); and
                                             85% of local
                                             expenditures
(4)  Works                 25,000,000        80%
(5)  Consultants' services                   100%
     and training:
     (a)  under Part B of
          the Project      15,000,000
     (b)  under the other
          Parts of the
          Project           5,000,000
(6)  Unallocated           20,000,000
          TOTAL           350,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made:
Page  9
(a)
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $70,000,000, may 
be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after a date 
which is one year before the date of this Agreement; and
(b)
under Separation Grants, unless the corresponding application for 
withdrawal of Loan proceeds contains a certification by an independent auditor, 
acceptable to the Bank, that such Separation Grants were made in accordance with the 
provisions of the Staff Retrenchment Program.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) for works or for the supply of 
goods and their installation under contracts costing less than $5,000,000 equivalent 
(except the first two contracts for works and the first two contracts for the supply 
of goods and their installation to be awarded  pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1 
of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement); (b) for goods  under contracts 
costing less than $350,000 equivalent; (c) for services of consulting firms under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (d) for services of individual 
consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent, all under such terms 
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower; and (e) under 
Separation Grants.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to reduce the cost of freight transport in 
Brazil's main corridors, through the restructuring and privatization of the federal 
railways.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Operations Restructuring and Concessioning
 
1.
Division of RFFSA's railway into six regional operations (the Southeast, 
Center-east, South, West, Tubarao and Northeast operations), separation of RFFSA's 
rail and non-rail assets, and strengthening of RFFSA's technical supervision 
functions, through the provision of technical assistance and training.
2.
Preparation and publication of bidding documents for the concession to private 
entities of the operations referred to in Part A.1 above, carrying out of the 
prequalification of bidders and auctions of such concessions, and, if such auctions 
are successfully completed: (a) awarding concessions to the winning bidders and 
transferring railway operation and maintenance responsibilities to the 
concessionaires; and (b) leasing of RFFSA's rail assets to concessionaires, and 
closure of RFFSA's operational divisions.
Part B:
Staff Retrenchment
 
A Program to increase RFFSA's staff productivity, through staff retrenchment 
while minimizing the social costs of such staff retrenchment, consisting of the 
establishment of appropriate incentive schemes for staff early retirement and 
voluntary separation, severance  payment schemes for remaining redundant staff, 
retraining programs based on regional employment opportunities and job searching and 
outplacement assistance, aiming to reduce RFFSA's staff by about 18,000, based on the 
company's total staff of 41,991 as of May 1995.
Part C:
Emergency Rehabilitation Program
 
Emergency rehabilitation, repairs, and/or maintenance of locomotives, wagons and 
critical sections of track, improvement of telecommunication and signaling systems, 
and consolidation of workshops, which are necessary to avoid further deterioration of 
the railway and traffic losses during the restructuring and concessioning process 
referred to in Part A above.
Part D:
Environmental Management
 
1.
Carrying out of environmental audits of RFFSA's workshops, fueling stations and 
sleeper treatment plants.
Page  10
2.
Strengthening, through the provision of technical assistance and training of 
staff, of RFFSA's environmental management and safety unit.
Part E:
Regulatory Reform
 
1.
Monitoring, evaluation and development of rail transport regulations. 
 
2.
Strengthening of DTF to enable it to effectively implement the rail transport 
regulations referred to in Part E.1 above and supervise the concessions referred to in 
Part A above, including provision of appropriate training  to DTF's staff.
3.
Establishment and implementation of an independent rail transport commission to 
resolve administratively disputes between railway concessionaires and the Borrower, 
and between shippers and such concessionaires.
Part F:
Financial Restructuring and Settlement of Liabilities
 
Establishment and implementation of a settlement division within RFFSA with the 
responsibility to manage RFFSA's debts and labor liabilities, and to manage and sell 
RFFSA's non-rail assets with the assistance of a specialized real estate management 
firm for the purposes of settling RFFSA's debts and labor liabilities.
Part G:
Project Management
 
Strengthening, through the provision of technical assistance and a computerized 
Project management system, of PMU's capability to coordinate the execution of the 
other Parts of the Project.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
   (Expressed in dollars)1
On each March 1 and September 1
17,500,000
beginning March 1, 2002
through September 1, 2011
__________________________
1
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalent determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawals. See General Conditions, Section 3.04 and 
4.03.
(*)
A date 90 days Loan signing should be included here.
Page  11
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the  Applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as
a percentage per annum) applicable
to the Loan on the day of prepay-
ment multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years
1.00
before maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through to (5) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$40,000,000, or such other amount as the Bank shall establish, to be withdrawn from 
the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
Page  12
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account  shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
Page  13
