Kt               :I -f:-C
O_f
The World Bank
FOR OFMCIL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. :P- 5868 GM        Type: (PM)
Tittle:  AGRICULTURAL SERVI CES PROJECT
Author: MASTERSON, .T                                            RhPot N. P-5868-4
Ext-.:35005 Room:J9144 Dept.:AF5AG
MORAlDUM AND RECOMMDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO TEF.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 8.8 MILLION
TO THE REPBLIC OF TlHE GMBIA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
DECEaMER 1, 1992
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
the-r official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit : Dalasi
US$1.00 - 9.1 Dalasis
Wdfts &MEASIRES
Metric System
GOVERNMNT FSCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVITIONS A CRO
AMRC                       Assets Management Recovery Company
DAS                        Department of Agriculur Services (Ministry of Agriculture)
DLS                        Department of Livestock Services
DOP                        Department of Planning
ERP                        Economic Recovery Program
ESAF                       Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GCDB                       Gambia Commercial and Development Bank
GCU                        Gambia Cooperative Union
GEAP                       Gambia Environmental Action Plan
GOPMAC                     Gambia Oilseeds Processing and Marketing Company TA
GOTO                       Government of Gambia
GPMB                       Gambia Produce Marketing Board
GUC                        Gambia Utilities Corporation
IFAD                       Intenational Fund for Agricultural Development
ME                         Ministry of Education
MNRE                       Ministry of Natural Resources and the Environment
MOA                        Ministry of Agriculture
NARB                       National Agricultural Research Board
NARI                       National Agricultural Research Institute
NGO                        Non-Governmental Organization
ODA                        Overseas Development Administration
PBS                        Program Budgeting System
PEP                        Public Expenditure Program
PIP                        Public Investment Program
PSD                        Ptogram for Sustained Development
TS                         Technical Secretariat (NARB)
USAID                      United States Agency for International Development



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
AGRC1URLgQAL SERVICES PROIECT
Credit and Project Summarv
Republic of The Gambia.
Beneficiaries                      :      Farmers and herders, Ministry of Agriculture
and National Agricultural Research Board
(NARB).
AIIIQImI                           :      SDR 8.8 million (US$12.3 million).
--renns                            :      Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.
On-lending Terms                          Part of the proceeds of the Credit would be
passed on by Government in grant form to the
National Agriculural Research Board (NARB).
US$ million
Financing Plan                            Government               1.3
EFAD                     3.6
IDA                     12.3
TOTAL            17.2
Economic Rate of Return                   Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report             :      11093-GM
Maps                               :      IBRD No. 23977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the p stormance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBIUC OF THE GAMIBIA
FOR AN AURMIM&MVIE PROJEa
1.          Ihe following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed development
credit to the Republic of The Gambia for SDR 8.8 million (IJS$12.3 million eqLivalent) is
submitted for your approval. The proposed credit would be on standard IDA terms with 40 years
maturity and would help finance the second phase of a long-term program aimed at improving
agricultural services to farmers and herders. Government will fiance US$1.3 million or 10%
of total project costs net of the IFAD contibution. IFAD will finance US$3.3 million equivalent.
I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUPfS ASSISTANCE SIRATEGY
Bjaccrund and Recent Devonents
2.           The Gambia, a very small country located on the West Coast of Africa,
surrounded on three sides by Senegal, occupies a narrow strip of land bordering the river
Gambia. Covering 10,700 km2 with a population of about 890,000, growing at 3.4% a year, the
Gambia has one of the highest population densities in the world (estimated at 207 inhabitants
per kml2 of agricultural land in 1991). It has an undeveloped human capital base with an illiteracy
rate of 73%, primary school enrollment of 61%, and infant mortality rate of 136 (1990).
3.           The Gambia is an open economy with very limited natural resources and one of
the least developed African countries, with a per capita income esdmated at US$325 in 1991/92.
IThe mainstay of economic activity has traditionally been the production and export of groundnu,
even though in recent years, some progress has been made in diversiying production and exports
toward tourism and trade services. Agriculture, which accounted for about 20% of real GDP in
1991192, employs the bulk of the population; industry contributed 12% of value-added, with the
rest accouned for services (trade 16%, hotels and restaurants 4%, and public administration
10%).
4.           The Gambia became independent in 1965 and has since then been governed under
a democratic multiparty parliamentary system, with free elections held at regular intervals. The
last presidential elections were held in April 1992.
5.           Macroeconomic        T Ihe first ten years of independence saw broadly stable
macroeconmic conditions, with modest rates of economic growth. But in the decade to 1985186
the economic and financial performance of The Gambia deteriorated markedly, as a result of
external shocks and inapproprate domestic policies. In particular, unfavorable weather, erratic
world groundnut prices, and inadequate real producaer prices led to a sharp decline in the domestic
output of groundnut. During the same period, the involvement of the public sector in the
economy increased sharply through the creation of several public enterprises, particularly in the
industrial and trading sectors, while the size of the Central Government rose markedly, entailing,
Inter alla, a doubling of the size of the civil service. The resulting large expansion in current
government expenditure and sharp increase in govenmient development expenditure contributed



-2-
to a widening of fiscal imbalances. The expansionary fiscal policy and an increasingly
overvalued currency resulted in higher demand for imports and discouraged the surrender of
export pV.oceeds to the official banking system, inducing a growing external indebtedness and a
depletion of gross official reserves. As a consequence, the growth of output in the directly
productive sectors of the economy re,nained low, inflation accelerated, and major externa
disequilibria emerged. By mid-1985, the imbalances reached critical proportions: gross official
reserves fell to the equivalent of less than a week of imports, external public debt climbed to
113% of GDP, external payments arrears represented almost one and a half times 85/86 export
earnings.
6.          In response to the deepening crisis compounded by the suspension of external aid
and the loss of credit-worthiness, The Gambian Goveranent adopted in mid-1985 a
comprehensive macroeconomic stabilization and adjustment program, the Ecoomic ltw=
EPgram JERP) covering the 1985/86-1989/90 period. Under the ERP, The Gambia's economic
and financial performance improved dramatically. Four factors contributed to this success:
(a) firm determination by the Government to implement the program; (b) close monitoring by,
and frank dialogue with the Bank and the Fund; (c) large influx of external aid; and
(d) improving weather conditions. Building on the success of the ERP, the Government launched
the Program for Sustained Development (PSD) in 1990. The PSD aims at reinforcing the
economic policies pursued under the ERP. Stabilization and rehabilitation dominated the ERP.
While these concerns remain present in the PSD, more emphasis is now put on the role of the
private sector to achieve growth and diversification objectives.
7.           Under the ERP and the PSD, The Gambia has restored economic growth,
reestablished internal and external balance, opened up the economy to market forces, and reduced
the Government's role in the econom,. Betweern 1985/86 and 1990/91 real GDP growth
averaged 3.5% reflecting continued growth in private sector activity particularly in horticulture,
tourism, and construction; end-period inflation rate was reduced from 70% to 5% in 1990/91;
the budget deficit (excluding official transfers) wrs cut fron. 11% of GDP to about 4% in
1990/91, reflecting elimination of transfers/subsidies to public enterprises and some improvement
in revenue mobilization; the current account deficit (excluding official transfers) declined from
about 17 of GDP% to 13% reflecting increases in tourism earnings and diversification of exports
to include horticultural products; and external reserves increased from less than a week of imports
to about 3.4 months of imports. These results are impressive, but they remain fragile and need
to be shored up.
8.           The economic strategy pursued by the Gambian authorities since 1985/86 has
been aimed primarily at reducing the involvement of the public sector in the economy,
encouraging the development of the private sector, lowering domestic and external imbalances,
and fostering economic growth. Accordingly, the strategy has entailed :(a) the early restoration
of an appropriate structure of relative prices and a strengthening of economic incentives in the
context of a market-oriented approach; (b) the implementation of restrictive fiscal and monetary
policies; and (c) the introduction of complementary structural reforms, particularly in the public
enterprise and financial sectors. A notable feature of the adjustment efforts has been the
emphasis on strengthening the supply response of the economy and enhancing the efficiency of
resource allocation through the removal of price distortions and government controls, and the
introduction of a market-determined exchange rate. The liberalization of the marketing
arrangements for groundnut, another key structural measure, has proceeded more cautiously.



-3 -
9.               One of the main accomplishments of the reform program was the introduction of
a m     tderminedMcbAglge.-ra  in 1986.  Commercial banks are free to trwansact among
themselves, with the Central Bank, or with customers at exchange rate agreed upon by the parties
to these transactions. In support of this system, foreign exchange control procedures were
liberalized, including removal of all restrictions on payments and transfers for current and capital
international transactions. In the financial sector, the way has been cleared for increasing private
sector's competitiot by phasing out the public sector's involvement .  The Agdictltal
Deveonment Bank was liquidated in 1987, the Gambia Commercial and Development Bank
(GCDB) was sold to a private bank (June 1992) and a newly created government agency, the
Assets Manawement Recovery Company (AMRC), has been entrusted to recover the GCDB's
non-performing assets. The government has been working on revising and preparing necessary
legislation to enhance the Central Bank's supervisory role. Monetary policy is now implemented
through open-market operations and credit ceilings have been abolished. Moreover, market forces
are allowed to play a significantly larger role in determining key interest rates, on the basis of
a bi-weekly tender system for Treasury bills.
Table 1: The Gambia: Key Macroeconomic Indicators
(percent except as indicated)
1987     1988     1989     1990     1991      1992     1 93     1994
Est.     PFP (Projections/Targets)
...... ..........   . ............... ...................................................... .... ....... ................ ................................... ..
REAL GROWTH RATE
GDP                                            1.7      4.3      5.2      2.3      4.0       4.5      4.5      5.0
GDP per capita                                 ERR      1.3      1.5      0.7       1.2      1.3      1.5      1.5
DEST SERVICE
Debt service (in US$ millions)                39.5     43.8     48.1     26.8     24.2      27.0     28.3     31.2
Debt servicelXGNFS /10)                       49.6     49.4     52.9     23.8     21.3      21.7     21.1     21.7
Debt service/GOP                              16.2     15.8     16.7      7.9       7.1      7.2      7.2      7.3
RATIOS TO GDP
Gross Domestic Investment                     15.5     17.6    20.6      19.3      19.0     19.2     19.8     20.0
PubLic investment / (4)                      6.7      5.3      5.1      5.1      5.3       5.4      5.6      5.9
Private investment 1 (5)                     8.8     12.3     15.5     14.2      13.7     13.8     14.2     14.1
Gross Domestic Savings                        -0.5      4.4      2.5      6.1      6.0       6.6      8.0      8.4
Government revenue                             20.4     23.2     21.7     19.8      20.9     22.1     21.8     22.3
Government expenditure                         36.8     26.0     29.9     24.0      24.8     24.1     23.7     24.0
Overall deficit ("-")
excluding grants                            -16.8     -4.1     -8.2     -4.1      -4.1     -2.0     -1.8     -1.8
incLuding grants                             -7.2      1.8     -1.7      1.3      0.9       2.2      2.2      2.0
GOP deflator                                    8.3     13.9     14.8     12.1      11.4      7.0      4.5      4.0
Real Effective Exchange Rate                    7.4      4.2     -8.9     -3.3      -3.6
Export Growth / (2)                            45.5     -7.5     14.9    -24.3      11.3     18.3     12.6      5.3
Exports (fob)/GDP I (3)                        32.7     36.5     41.6     41.9     42.6      43.4     42.5     41.6
import Growth / (2)                             0.3      8.8     16.9      3.8      2.4       5.1      4.0      4.0
Imports/GDP " (3)                             44.1      46.5     55.1     55.9    56.6       56.7     55.7    54.6
Current account deficit (in US$ millions)    -38.2   -34.6   -53.4   -42.5    -46.1    -46.3   -47.0    -49.9
Current Account/GDP
excluding transfers                       -16.0    -13.2    -18.1    -13.2    -13.9    -12.6    -11.8    -11.6
including transfers                        3.9       1.9    -2.7      -0.1     -0.1      -0.7     -0.1     -0.2
Gross reserves (in months of imports)           2.6      1.7      2.1      3.4       5.0      4.9      5.3      5.6
Stock of Debt (in USS millions)               291.2    267.3    259.1    263.3    301.4    288.4    288.4    291.4
GDP (in USS millions)                         237.6    263.7    295.3    321.1    355.2    367.3    397.0    430.2
(1) As percent of exports and travel income less imports used for re-exports.
(2) Excluding re-exports.
(3) Including re-exports.
(4) Including the public enterprise sector.
(5) Reflects the budget development expenditure plus capital component of the recurrent budget.



-4 -
10.          Entrprise efficiency and resource allocation have also improved. Under the
Public Entrise Reform Program some 5 wholly-owned and 10 mixed companies have been
privatized -most notable is the ongoing privatization of the Gambia Produce Marketing Board
(GPMB)- and performce conacts have been signed for the six remaining public enterprises
in the government portfolio (including progress with leasing arrangements for the Gambia
Utilities Corporation to a private management firm) to ensure their managerial autonomy
including tariff setting and efficiency. In the agricultural sector, rice imports have been privatized
and consumer price of rice decontrolled. The Ministry of Agriculture has been restructured to
focus on providing more efficient exnsion and support services. Economic efficiency of the
groundnut subsector has improved as a result of the realignment of the groundnut producer price
with world market prices and the elimination of budgetary subsidies for groundnut operations.
11.          To improve public resource management the government revised the system of
income taxation and enacted new sales taxes with a view to broaden the tax base, improve the
efficiency of tax collection, and rationalize the tax system. Progress has been made in reducing
budgetary expenditures while allowing for higher recurrent expenditures on education and health
andhigherdevelopment expendituresforprioritysectors. Thegovernmentretrenched about24%
of its work-force (1986187), and reformed civil service pay and grading system (1988) to improve
efficiency in government operations. Results have not been quite satisfactory; although the wage
bill has been curtailed, changes in the civil service merit system leave much to be desired. A
three-year-rolling Public Investment Program (PIP) focusing on rehabilitation and maintenace
in the infrastructure and social sectors and linked to the preparation of the budget was introduced
in 1989. The PIP no longer contains investment projects in productive sectors that would be
better undertaken in the private sector. To ensure that the pattern of recurrent expenditures
reflect agreed objectives, draft Public Expenditure Profram  (PEPs) for the Ministries of
Agriculture, Health, Education, and Works and Communication were prepared in late 1991.
Much more work, however, will be needed to link the PEPs to the Program Budgeting System
based on unit costing and to the central government budget. The Program Budgeting System
remains the weakest component of the PEP system and, except for the MWistry of Agriculture,
calls for additional work.
12.          Recent Econoic Perfomrance: 1991/92andfirst guarter of 19293. The main
macro-economic targets for 1991/92 were: (a) real GDP growth of at least 4.5%; (b) lowering
of inflation as measured by changes in the consumer price index to 5% by June 1992;
(c) reduction of the budget deficit to 2.3% of GDP; and (d) reduction of the external current
account deficit, excluding official transfers to 14% of GDP. While progress was made toward
reducing the external current account deficit and strong accumulation of gross official reserves,
real GDP growth, however, fell short of the program targets (PFP) in both years primarily
because of exogenous factors. Although macro-economic performance weakened in the first half
of 1991/92, the outcome for the whole year was generally in line with the program targets.
13.          Slippages caused by expansionary fiscal and monetary policies in the first half of
the 1991/92 year were reversed by corrective measures, introduced in March 1992. The
measures aimed at: improving domestic resource mobilization (reforms of customs duties and
direct taxation); strengthening expenditures controls; and reducing inflation through tighter
monetary policy (accelerated sales of Treasury bills). As a result the inflation rate which rose
from 5.4% in June 1991 to 15% in March 1992 reflecting largely the impact of a depreciation
of the Dalasi i-"-vis the CFA franc, came down to less than 10% by end-August 1992; and the



-5.-
extenal account deficit, excluding offieial transfers was contained at 14% of GDP in 1991/92,
while gross official reserves rose to the tauivalent of about five months of imports by end-June
1992. in spite of slow recovery in agricultural production and reduction of activity in the
mnufacturing sector, real GDP growth in 1991/92 is estimated at 4.0% due to buoyant activity
in the trading and toism secwts.
14.          Preliminary assessment of macr-economic performance during the first five
months of 1992/1993 indicate that the reform program presented in the 1992/93 Budget Speech,
is broadly on track. The efforts to improve domestic resource mobilization seem to be producing
satisfictory resuts (strong performance in wllecting sales taxes and customs duty); tighter
monetary policy along with higher food imports resulted in a reduction of the annual inflation rate
to 6% in Septembe 1992. With high bank lending rates (20-27%) remaing unchanged, real
interest rates have risen sharply, seriously constraining prospects for private sector investment
in TMe Gambia.
15.          Notwitstanding slippages in implementation of the strucural reforms which
delayed the release of SAL-II second tranche, further progress was made in 1992 particularly in
restructuringof the financial, groundnut, and public utilities sectors. The asset recovery company
AMRC (para. 8) is expected to be granted special powers by an act of Parliament to expedite bad
loans' collection; the collected proceeds wiUl be used to repay all net liabilities of the GCDB
transferred to AMRC. AMRC's success will be essential to restore confidence in the banking
sector, and in improving financial discipline by reducing the excessive liquidity in the banking
sector. With a view to updating the legislative framework and bringing it more in line with the
monetary policy reforms introduced in recent years, the Central Bank Act and the Financial
Instiutions Act were revised during the past two years and they are scheduled to be presented
to Parliament end-November 1992. These acts allow for the introduction of central bank financial
instrments so as to enhance the effectiveness of liquidity management, and to strengthen the
provisions for bank supervision. Amendments to the Bankruptcy Act and the Sheriff Act are also
being considered, so as to strengthen the procedurt for the enforcement of financial contcs
and facilitate the liquidation of collateral to bank loans. The capacity of the Central Bank has
also been strengthened with technical assistance from donors. The privatization of the GCDB and
the revised financial legislation are expected to stimulate competition in the banking system of
The Gambia and help narrow the existing large margins between bank deposit and lending interest
rates. In addition to legislative reform, much needs to be done to ensure a speedy, transparent,
and reliable functioning of the court system.
16.          Substantial progress has been made toward the privatization of the Gambia
Produce Markeing Board (GPMB): core assets have been transferred to the Gambia Oilseeds
Processing and Marketing Company Ltd (GOPMAC), a public company and the 1973 GPMB Act
has just been repealed. The Prospectus for privatization of GOPMAC, prepared by Price
Waterhouse was issued in October 1992, notices of the sale have been placed in local and
intenational newspapers and a target date for completion of the sale put at end-March 1993.
Finally, the Government is in the process of reviewing the three bids received from reputable
foreign companies for 10-year management leasing contract for The Gambia Utility Corporation
(GUC).



-6-
Medium-Term Policies andloo
17.          Under the ERP and its successor, the PSI), substantial progress has been made
in restoring macroeconomic and financial stability and laying the foundation for a sustainable
expansion in output through the successful implementation of a wide range of financial and
structural reforms. Notwithstanding the progress made so far, a number of major structural and
financial constrains continue to confront the economy. The Government's strategy for the
medium term, presented in the sixth year PFP reviewed favorably by tne Bank and Fund Boards
in June 1992, focuses on stimulating private sector development, maintaining macroeconomic
stability and an appropriate incentive structure as the best means for adjusting to changing
circumstances.
18.          The main macroeconomic objectives of the program for 1992/93-1994195 are to:
(a) achieve an annual average rate of growth of real GDP of about 5%; (b) lower the rate of
inflation, on an end-of-period basis to 5% in 1992193 and 4% in subsequent years; and
(c) continue to generate overall balance of payments surpluses, averaging about US$15 million
a year, thus allowing gross official reserves to be maintained at the equivalent of more than five
morths of imports. Sectoral growth rate projections for the medium term reflect growth potential
in the agricultural sector, as well as in export-oriented small-scale manufacturing, fisheries,
tourism, and re-export trade and other services. fhe growth of value added in the agricultural
sector is expected to average 5% annually, reflecting an expected recovery from the poor harvests
in recent years, on the assumption of generally good weather conditions, while the services and
industrial sectors are expected to record average annual growth rates of 6% and 3%, respectively.
Under the program, gross investment is targeted to grow in relation to GDP from an estimated
19% in 1991/92 to 20% in 1994/95, with private investment (including public enterprises)
projected to expand from 13.7% to 14. 1% over the same period. The financing of the targeted
investment and attainment of the external current account objectives will necessitate an increase
in domestic savings (excluding foreign grants), from an estinated 5.1% of GDP in 1991/92 to
8.4% in 1994/95. To attain this objective, an increase in government savings from 2.9% of GDP
to 4.1% will be required, while it is expected that private savings would rise from an estimated
2.2% of GDP in 1991/92 to 4.3% in 1994/95, on the strength of positive real interest rates, the
ongoing deepening of financial intermediation, and increases in corporate profitability and real
personal disposable income.
19.         Impact of External Development. The Gambian economy is highly vulnerable
to changes in weather conditions and to external developments (groundnut prices and economic
developments in neighboring countries) and it remains highly dependent on external assistance.
(a)    Groundnut receipts, which represent 70% of the value of domestically-produced
exports, are quite unstable due to widely fluctuating production and prices (e.g.,
over the last eight years, production levels ranged from a low of 75,000 metric
tons to a high of 130,000 m.t. and world market price for groundnut oil varied
between US$976 and US$515 per m.t). Moreover, world demand prospects for
groundnut are not favorable and, consequently, the downward trend in groundnut
world prices in real terms is expected to continue well into the next century.
Diversification will continue to be pursued to address tis issue.



-7-
(b)    The Gambia's favorable tariff structure and exchange rate relative to the CFA
franc in recent years, has contributed to an active re-export trade. Net re-exports
now accounts for more than 30% of all exports. Although measurement is
difficult, it is estimated that nearly one-half of The Gambia's re-exports enter
Senegal, some illicitly. This trade which provides a large share of tax receipts
and accounts for an increasing share of output, is strongly influenced by regional
political developments and changes in the trade policies of neighboring countries.
The Government is keenly aware of the regional situation which it monitors
carefully, with a view to having appropriate contingency plans in place.
(c)    The Gambia's heavy dependence on external assistance, makes it very vulnerable
to change in the international aid climate given mounting worldwide demands on
limited aid funds. Since 1980, The Gambia has been among the top five
recipients of foreign aid in Sub-Sahara Africa (e.g., in 1991, each Gambian
received US$93 in net disbursements of official developnment assistance). This
high level of assistance has been sustained over more than an decade (US$79 per
Gambian in 1980-85; US$98 in 1986-87, and US$76 in 1988-90). This
underscores the importance for the authorities of strengthening domestic resource
mobilization and of creating an environment conducive to direct foreign private
investment, and, indeed, these are among the major objectives of the current
economic policy package.
Central Development Issues
20.          Human Resources Development. The Gambia trails the already low averages of
Sub-Saharan Africa in terms of life expectancy, infant mortality, and literacy rates. To break out
of the pattern of low-level equilibrium, and put The Gambia on a faster growth path, improving
significanly the situation underlined by these indicators is a sine qua non condition of
development. In education, the overwhelming issue is to raise significantly the level of primary
school enrollment in the face of constrained physical, financial and institutional resources and a
rapidly growing school age population. Expanding the primary educaticn system must go in
parallel with specific efforts to promote female enrollment and encourage parents to send girls
to school. Increasing female enrollment is critical to improve equity, enhance the productivity
of women, reduce fertility and mortality rates, and promote key development objectives in family
welfare.
*           21.          In 1988, the Government approved an education policy that seeks to (a): improve
the quality of, and expand access to, primary education; (b) restructure and improve the quality
of secondary education by introducing a new secondary education system of two three-year cycles
and by phasing out secondary technical school; (c) promote the development of private initiatives;
and (d) strengthen the planning and management capacity of institutions operating in the sector.
The Government will raise further recurrent budget allocations to the education sector (excluding
debt service and transfers to the development fund) from 21 % in 1991/92 to 22% in 1992/93 and
23% in 1994/95 (including d' nor contributions). Increased allocations will emphasize the
provision of textbooks, mater)4s, teachers's aids and supplies, and furniture for children, in
particular for primary school education. These priorities should be reflected in the pubicW
expenditure program for the sector, which the Government should start implementing in 1993/94.
Although the Government's education policy has increased access to education, it appears that



-8 -
the quality of education may not have kept up with the increase In demand for schooling
population.
22.          Health is the other major element of human resource investment. The health
status of most Gambians Is considered poor and sharp differences remain between rural and urban
residents. Infant motality is very high (for under 5 years, 221 out of 1000 compared to 159 for
SSA) and estimates of maternal mortality rates are still among the highest in developing countries.
The main causes of morbidity and mortality are malaria, respiratory infections and
diarrhea/dysentery. Maternal deaths are also related to inefficient referral and evacuation syste t-
at the village level. Only 305. of the population have access to piped drinking water and 2S¶
haie toilet facilities. the Government's policies for the health sector aim at improving the
effectiveness and quality of health services and their accessibility to the rural population. The
program of reforms calls for the strengthening of health sector management, including the
decentralization of health care services, the expansion of the primary health care system, nurse
training programs, and improvements in health education, nutrition and family programs.
Although implemeutation of the sector strategy suffers from weak implementation capacity,
progress, albeit slow, has been achieved. The share of the health sector in the recurrent budget
(excluding debt service and transfers to the Development Fund) will increase from under 11%
in 1991/92 to 12.5% in 1992193-199314 and 13% in 1994/95, which is in line with the sector's
absorptive capacity.
23.          Agriculture and Natural Resource Mana2ement. In a country where most of the
popwation depends on agriculture and where the annual population growth rate is a high 3.4%
per annum, preserving the environment and developing sustainable agricultural practices are of
paramount importance for growth and development. Furthermore, poverty is so pervasive in the
rural areas of The Gambia that a national strategy for poverty alleviation must be contingent on
a thriving agricwtural sector. Growth in agriculture will require improvements in productivity,
diversification of production, better integration of livestock and crop production, and improved
naural resource management. Measures taken so far to attain these objectives are: liberalization
of prices, government withdrawal from output marketing and input supply, restructuring of the
Ministry of Agriculture to proviWe better research and extension services to farmers covering
crops, livestock and natural resources management. For further growth, it will also be important
to promote farmer participation and self-management in the areas of irrigation, water
management, rural savings and loans, training of rural entrepreneurs and nrual social
infrastructure.
24.          The agro-ecological environment of The Gambia is difficult. Unreliable rainfall
distribution and the increasing frequency of drought are additional difficulties. Furthermore,
expanding human and animal population are steadily increasing the pressures on the fragile
natural resources. Rapid population growth (if the 3.4% annual growth rate continues unabated,
population will double to 1.7 million by the year 2010) is degrading and depleting limited natural
resources and reducing agricultural productivity. The direct economic and other consequences
of this environmental degradation are being increasingly felt. Unless greater attention is given
to the environment and the management of natural resources, food production will be unable to
keep pace with the growing population as cultivation expands into more and more marginal areas
and as fallow cycles are further reduced. Although, the Government, with the help of UNDP has
prepared The Gambia Environmental Action Plan (GEAP) which was presented at the UN
Environment Conference held in Rio de Janeiro, much remains to be done to operationalize it.



-9-
GEAP reiterates Goverment's commitment to arresting the deterioration of the environment
through, ntwer aia, action in the areas of population control and human resource settlement, In
land management, in institutional capacity strengthening, and in natural resource management.
The Government has also formulated with the assistance of donors a National Population Policy
which together with a poverty alleviation program will form the focus of a Sectoral Round Table
on t0e social sectors, sometime in late 1993.
25.          Private Sector Development. The private sector should become one of the
principal sources of economic growth in The Gambia. The policy reforms undertaken under the
E'P and the PSD went a long way toward creating an enabling environment for the private
st,aor: market determined exchange and interest rates, price liberalization, absence of restrictions
on employment or capital repatriation, low average import duties, abolition of quantitative
restrictions and export taxes, privatization of several parastatals. Maintenance of macro-economic
stability has been important in attracting private investors. Despite the progress already made
in providing an enabling environment for the private sector, its development continues to be
constrained by inadequate financial intermediation, lack of cost-effective infrastructure, including
utilities and transportation, and malfunctioning of the court system, customs and tax
administration. Government recently prepared with UNDP assistance a long-term strategy for
private sector development which will be presented to the donor community at a Sectoral Round
Table Conference in early 1993.
26.          Public Resources Managm t. Improvement in the efficiency with which public
resources are mobilized and public services are delivered will be an important determinant of the
responsiveness of private economic operators to an improved incentive structure. Notwithstanding
marked improvement in pdblic resource management over the last six years, the macroeconomic
siution remaIns fragile, sensitive to regional developments, which have a pronounced effect on
the re-export trade, as well as to delays or shortfalls in annual aid disbursements, which tend to
exacerbate the effects of any fiscal slippages. The reforms already implemented and those under
preparation appear also to have strained the public sector's management and implementation
capacity, particularly at the sectoral level where significant delays or slippages from the envisaged
policy path have been recorded. Key issues are: (a) sustained improvement in revenue
mobilization; (b) restru..aring of current expenditures; and (c) strengthening public investment
programming.
27.          Sustained improvement in resource mobl     calls for strngthening the
customs administration (actions are underway with assistance of UK-ODA) and corporate
taxation, broadening the tax base, and enhancing the transparency of tax policies. Reforms to
be implemented are projected to contribute to an increase in domestic revenue from 20.9% of
GDP in 1991/92 to 22.3% by 1994/95.
28.          Restructuring Current Expenditures. Although structural reforms put an emphasis
on uiproving public resource management, progress has remained modest in changing the pattern
and composition of recurrent expenditure, and in improving their efficiency. The progress made
in reducing overall recurrent expenditures, has yet to be translated into expenditure patterns that
support the Government's stated development objectives: human resource development, pover y
alleviation, and economic infrastructure maintenance. Within sector, there has been some shift
in expenditures to operations and materials in education and health, but still too little is allocated
to materials, which teachers and health workers need to perform their jobs properly. It is vital



- 10-
not only that these increases take place, but that the public expenditure programs emphasize the
quality, efficiency and effectiveness in the use of public resources. Indicators for the cost-
effective use of public resources are not available across all sectors, making it difficult to make
intra- and Inter-sectoral comparisons (para. 11).
29.          Public Expenditure Programming. The coverage of the rolling public expenditure
programs will be broadened to cover all sectors by 1994/95, thus facilitating greater consistency
between the public investment program and the outlays on operations and maintenance provided
for in the recurrent budget. Moreover, the Government will continue its policy of not subsidizing
the operating costs of public enterprises and containing the expansion in the civil service wage
bill. Although some progress has been made in estimating and linking the impact of the
investment budget on the recurrent budget by introducing Public Expenditure Programming in
the Ministries of Agriculture, Health, Education, and Works and Communications, the planned
broadening of the PEP to all sectors would help to integrate better the PIP within regular
budgetary management procedures.
30.          Governance. Governance issues are drawing increasing attention from the
country's development partners and risk endangering The Gambia's reputation and, in turn,
reducing the confidence of donors and investors. Many problems are systemic and stem from
weak implementation capacity; their solution will require time and come progressively as
development takes root. Improvements in expenditure programming and monitoring, availability
of trained personnel at all levels in the administration, establishment of a pay and incentive
system in the public sector capable of attracting and retaining the country's best and brightest are
areas where progress will take time. But in many other areas, progress could be made quickly
and send a powerful signal about the Government determination to address these issues. For
example, systematic recovery of GCDB's debt estimated at D 330 million in bad loans equivalent
to 1 1 % of GDP (where the largest debtor accounts for 36% of the bad debts) would be such a
signal. Foregone revenues from customs evasion are estimated at about D 85 million yearly,
about 5% of GDP, and almost four times the total expenditures on health. A recent study of
income tax found also evidence of substantial and widespread evasion of income taxes, with
losses in the range of 70% of the sums owed to government in recent years. Estimates indicate
that stricter tax enforcement of existing laws would yield additional revenues equivalent to
another 3% to 4% of GDP. These facts,together with the slow, cumbersome, and sometimes
unpredictable functioning of the courts are major obstacles to a better environment for banking
and business.
Bank Group Assistance Strategy
31.          The Status of the Policy Dialogue. One factor explaining the success of The
Gambia's economic reform program has been the close monitoring by and frank dialogue with
the Bank and the Fund. This led at times to tense situations and to some delays in the release
of the corresponding financing, but it helped ensure that agreed results were achieved, especially
targets for expenditures in the social sectors, inflation, and public enterprise restructuring
(privatization of GCDB, changes in GUC, GPMB and the successful divesuture of a number of
smaller enterprises). Much of the monitoring took place in the PFP context.
32.          The policy dialogue, conoacted at the highest levels, is now squarely focused on
long-term issues. Wide ranging and open discussions have provided the occasion to reach a



- 11 -
common understanding of the larger context in which The Gambian economy has to develop.
They covered: issues for the future Bank role in supporting The Gambia's programs; the status
of the economic program; the overall aid climate, the impact of regional developments on The
Gambia; and governance issues as they impact on The Gambia's economic prospects.
Country Lending Strategy and Priorities
33.          Past IDA Assistance. As of August 31, 1992, IDA had approved 21 operations
in The Gambia for a total of about US$145 million. To date, 13 credits have been fully
disbursed. Bank assistance to The Gambia became increasingly policy oriented over the 1980s,
first through the inclusion of reform measures in investment projects, and since 1986 through two
adjustment operations. IDA has continued to finance investment operations in support of the
major sectors, in particular infrastructure and human resources. The lending volume amounted
to US$89.5 million over the FY86-FY92 period for an average of about one project per year.
Adjustment was supported by 44% of total committed resources over that period. Human
resources received 30%, industry 11% and infrastructure 14%. There are currently seven
projects under implementation:  two were approved in FY84 (Agriculture and Urban
development); one each in FY86 (Water and Electricity), FY87 (Health), FY88 (Enterprise
Reform); two in FY90 (Women in Development and Education). As of October 31, 1992, the
undisbursed balanced amounted to about US$40 million. While performance on adjustment has
generally been satisfactory, institutional and management problems continue to hinder the
implementation of investment projects, a fact which undermines progress made on the
macroeconomic front. The Bank's operational portfolio for The Gambia remains weak and
implementation issues figure prominently in the country dialogue.
Table 2: COMPOSMON OF IDA LENDING, FY86 - FY92
US$    Share j_Number
Human Resources              27.2    30.4      3
Infrastructure               12.8     14.3     2'
Industry                     10.0     11.2     1
Structural Adjustment        39.5    44.1      2
Total              89.5   100.0       8
34.   Implementation Capacity and the status of the Bank's portfolio. Weak policy and
implementation capacity is limiting the development impact of many projects. In November
1990, a joint Bank-Government of the Gambia review of all operations (9 investment and one
adjustment operations) resulted in an action plan to address the problems which were delaying
project implementation. The FY92 Annual Review of Implementation and Supervision of the IDA
portfolio (8 investment and one adjustment operations) indicate that some progress had been
made: availability and timeliness of counterpart funding improved substantially as a result of



- 12-
better public resource management and targeted resource allocation to social services and
infiastructure maintenance. Careful and dogged supervision of the portfolio enabled the last
tranche release -for SAL-H and produced satisfactory results in corecting the implementation
problems of the Education Sector project. However, in both FY91 and FY92, The Gambia had
a high number of projects (5 out of 9) suffering from major problems. Many of these problems
are linked to weak human resources and institutional capabilities; but some derive from a lack
of action once issues are identified and brought to the attendon of high level officials. Since
independence, The Gambia has received massive technical assistance (about 37% of net Official
Development Assistance over the past 5 yealts has financed technical assistance) with negligible
impact on capacity building. Poor implementation of The Gambia's investment portfolio
undermines progress made on the macro-economic front.
35.          Priorities for IDA. The Gambia is at a "watershed", as it graduated from the
ESAF Program, which implies that the country's external position has improved so much in
recent years that it has reached a stage where it no longer needs exceptional concessional balance
of payments financing from the IMF and debt relief from other donors. Despite its impressive
record of reforms, The Gambian economy remains fragile. On the budgetary side, there is sfill
considerable scope to improve domestic resource mobilization and to ensure correspondence
between public expenditures and the Government's development priorities, namely the social
sectors and infrastructure maintenance. The economy remains dependent on the re-export trade
(an activity quite sensitive to policy reforms in Senegal), and on large amounts of extenal
financial and technical assistance. Sustained development wil continue to call for the
mobilization of sufficient aid in support of well-defined and coordinated investment programs,
focused on: (a) poverty alleviation; (b) domestic resource mobilization; (c) infrastructure
mnaintenance; (d) institutional capacity building; and (e) effective action on the environment.
36.          The sixth year PFP which was reviewed favorably by the Bank and the Fund in
June 1992 provides the framework for continued reform as well as for the monitoring of
economic performance and donors' aid coordination. The Gambia continues to benefit under the
SPA. In light of The Gambia's relatively small size, the extreme openness of its economy, its
proximity to Europe and America, the question arises as to whether it can break out of its low-
income status in the next twenty years or so. This challenge is at the center of the current
dialogue with The Gambia. The actions necessary to meet it are fully consistent with the
Government's objectives in the six-year PFP: foster private sector growth, improve public
resource management, and alleviate long-term physical and human resource constraints to growth.
37.         EPoety. The overarching objective of IDA's strategy in The Gambia is the
alleviation of poverty through growth in per capita income and improvement in social services.
A recently-completed poverty profile by the ILO based on existing information found that
approximately over 60% of the population is poor, and over 40% are food poor (nadequate
income to support even the minimum required caloric intake). The profile revealed that larger
households with farmers as household heads are among the most vulnerable groups.
Furthermore, larger households, particularly those with over 15 members and with members who
are illiterate or have only primary school education tend to be among the poorest. This profile
will be refined once additional information becomes available from household budget survey
supported by the African Development Bank and UNDP. The Bank group will complement and
support this effort through its completion of a poverty assessment for The Gambia.



- 13 -
38.          Several 1DA operations already have a particular focus on gIaly Wlevialo.
The Agrcultur Services Proje presented in this report aims to generate increased agricultural
productivity and sustained growth of the incomes of farmers and herders, particularly in the
traditional small-holder sector. The main components of the project are described later on in this
report.
39.          Closely linked to the issue of poverty alleviation is that of food scury which
is also addressed through the Agricultural Services Project and the Women in Development
Prject (WID). Both projects include efforts to improve household food storage techniques, to
increase women's agriculua  productivity and disposable income through better access to
extension and improving marketing skills of rural women. These efforts should ease constraints
on households food budget. The issue of women in development is addressed under the
Agricultural Services Project by mainstreaming the extension system's focus on women farmers
initiated under the WID project. The WID project friher supports family planning and the
education needs of women as well as issues affecting their economic status. The ongoing National
Health- Develomn Project also supports the family planning program.
40.          To foster grivate sectoT  , IDA's strategy is to support (a) continuation of
sound macroeconomic policies; (b) strengthening of institutions that support the private sector,
including fimancial ones through the Entrrise De Ipmn rject; (c) infrastructure investment
through the Water and Electricity project and reform of the Gambia Utilities Corporation to
reduce costs; (d) agricultural production growth and diversification through the Aericultural
DMQm=nt and the Agricultural Services projects; (e) greater access for women to all support
services in the agricultural and industrial sectors through the WID and Enterprise Development
projects.
41.          Proosd Lending Prog     T The proposed lending program for FY93-97 reflects
Government and IDA's priorities. It would range between a high case of US$70 million but
could decrease to a core program of US$35 million, depending on performance under the six-year
PFP including improvements in project implementation. The long-term success of reforms will
be contingent upon the development of human resources in general and institutional capacity
building in particular. Given the central importance of institutional capacity building, a new
approach calls for a comprehensive long term plan with three objectives: (a) to improve macro-
economic and project management; (b) to strengthen the functioning of the court system; and
(c) to enhance the performance contract system for the remaining public enterprise sector. The
planned hybrid Econonic Management SECAL will address above objectives. It will, inter alia,
focus on issues related to domestic resource mobilization and the pattern and composition of
public expenditures particularly on health, education and economic infrastructure. A Eic&
Works and Employment project will address the issues of procurement reform, capacity building
in the construction industry and poverty alleviation. A Human Resource Sector Credit would
continue IDA's support of Government's family planning efforts, initiated in the ongoing National
Health Development project and strengthened in the WID project. It would also consolidate
education sector reforms which are being introduced under the FY90 Education sector Credit.
In infrastructure, should the relevant institutional framework be established an Urban
EnvironmeneMantgement and Banjul Port HI projects are planned.
42.          Economic and Sector Work. The planned economic and sector work will support
the proposed lending program. Proposed studies include: (a) an Institutional Assessment review



- 14-
with the aim of developing, in close collaboration with The Gambia as well as UNDP and other
donors, a comprehensive strategy for institutional development; (b) a Public Exendiu  Review
(PER) which will focus on inter- and intra sectoral resource allocation and public expenditure
management, with particular attention to investment programming, social sector spending and the
institutional dimension of resource management issues which cut ac oss sectors; (c) a Povert
Assessmest aimed at developing well-focused IDA strategy addressing the needs of the most
vulnerable groups. Finally, against the backdrop of the rapidly changing regional and
international environment, a study will address ways for The Gambia to go about setting the stage
for faster growth through further structural reforms.
43.          International Finance Corporation. IFC activity in The Gambia is likely to be
in the context of its regional support of the development of small and medium-sized enterprises,
namely the African Project Development Facility (APDF) and the Africa Enterrise Fund (AEF).
IFC's current portfolio consists of a loan in the amount of DM 7.7 million and equity of DM 2.9
million for the Kombo Beach Novotel Hotel (1983, restructured in 1990 due to losses) and a loan
of US$1 million to Pelican Seafood (1990). IFC will focus on the promotion of exports and
diversification of the economy in the areas of comparative advantage that appear to be emerging,
e.g., food and fish processing. It may also continue to finance tourism and might provide
financial and advisory services for rehabilitation, restructuring and privatization of existing
companies which have long-term growth potential.
44.          Collaboration wit the IMF. Donors and Non-Government           Iheigaflons. The
support which The Gambia's adjustment program has received from ME, IDA and other
multilateral and bilateral donors has been coordinated through the SPA process. The PFP was the
principal vehicle for IDA/IMF collaboration and provided the umbrella for donor assistance. In
June 1992, the Bank and IMF Board reviewed favorably a sixth year PFP, as a framework for
continued monitoring of adjustment and development. IDA will continue to promote donor
cooperation at both the overall macroeconomic level and specific sector level. Through the
annual Public Investment Program reviews, IDA will aim to ensure that projects financed by
other donors are consistent with macroeconomic and development objectives. IDA will take the
lead in organizing donors's meeting in the context of the SPA to mobilize resources to support
the adjustment program and will work with the UNDP in preparing Round Tables. In October
1992, IDA staff participated at a Geneva Round Table which focused on review of progress
achieved during the first two years of the PSD and to reach an agreement on policy directions
for the coming years. Sectoral follow-up of the 1992 Round Table will be dedicated to
Environment, Social Sectors, and Private Sector Development. The next main Round Table
dedicated to Povrty Alleviatio will take place toward the end of 1993.
Smmay Assessmnt
45.          Despite impressive results in macro-economic and financial performance, Tue
Gambia's economy remains vulnerable to adverse external developments and changes in weather
conditions, while it continues to be highly dependent on external assistance. The macroeconomic
situation remains fragile, sensitive to regional developments, which have a pronounced effect on
the re-export trade, and as well as to delays of shortfalls in annual aid disbursements, which tend
to exacerbate the effects of any fiscal slippages. The reforms already implemented and those
under preparation appear also to have strained the public sector's management and
implementation capacity, particularly at the sector level where significant delays or slippages from



- 15-
the envisaged policy path have been recorded. Capacity building, aimed at improving economic
policy making, macroeconomic management, and project implementation is the focus of Bank's
strategy in The Gambia. The proposed lending program for FY93-97 work range between a high
case of US$70 million but could go down to a core program of US$35 million depending on
performance under the six-year PFP including improvements in project implementation.
Satisfactory progress in meeting objectives of the IDA's strategy would be reflected in periodic
reviews of the policy framework (including fiscal, balance of payments and monetary
perfonnance) as well as in review for tranche release of the planned Economic Management
SECAL. To measure progress with regard to the objective of fostering private sector growth,
review missions would consider whether reform of the financial sector have been completed;
recovery of bad loans is taking place; privatization of remaining commercial PEs are finalized;
judicial system is more transparent and business women have equal rights.
46.          With regard to the goal of improving public resources management, progress
would be measured through permanent and significant reductions in public sector spending and
improvement in the quality of expenditures. With respect to revenue mobilization, progress
criteria include increased customs receipts, tax receipts and public savings. Specific targets are
those in the Sixth year PFP.
47.         In education, measures to improve efficiency in primary education have been
initiated. They must continue and additional resources must be sought in order to raise The
Gambia's present low enrollment ratio. In the area of population control, performance assessment
in the short term will be based on the visible political support given to the population program
and on the effectiveness of service delivery modes. Progress in reversing environmental
degradation will depend on strengthening the institutional framework for implementation of the
Environmental Action Plan and on the Government's ability and willingness to provide village
communities with the knowledge and legal authority to participate filly in natural resource
management.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Project Objetves
48.          The project aims at generating increased agricultural productivity and sustained
growth of the incomes of small farming families, through the strengthening of support services
in agricutural extension, research, and training, and the promotion of self-reliance and farmer
empowerment. In this, the project would build on experience gained during the implementation
of the IDA financed Agricultural Development Project H (ADP-II), a USAID financed
agricultural research project, and small-scale irrigation projects funded by IFAD.
Proiect Description
49.          The main components of the project are:
(a)   strengthening agricultural sector analysis and planning;



- 16-
(b)   consolidating, improving and strengthening agricultural extension services
covering crop and livestock production and natural resources management, and
expansion of fumctional litemy programs;
(c)   improving and strengthening the Gambian agricultural research system and
modest support to the Agricultural School of the Gambia College; and
(d)    promoting self-reliance/farmer empowerment through pilot activities in one
administrative Division (McCarthy Island Division - MID) that would test new
approaches in farmer participation and self-management in the areas of:
irrigation water management, rural savings and loans, training of entrepreneurs,
and rural social infrastructure.
50.          Because of the prominent role of women in Gambian agriculture and because of
the encouraging experience made under ADP-II and the Women in Development Project,
particular emphasis will be put on reaching women farmers and on developing technologies that
are of special interest to them. Also, collaboration with NGOs for extension and the promotion
of self-reliance and farmer empowerment and with the outside world for agriculural research are
basic features of the project. Concerning extension, there is a critical need to provide farmers
with comprehensive extension advice on crops, livestock and natural resources management and
to organize service delivery by the Departments of Agricultural Services (DAS) and the
Department of Livestock Services (DLS) accordingly. This is another feature of the project.
Finally, to revitalize agricultural research, a number of institutional reforms would be introduced
to make research more competitive and demand driven, and provide greater institutional and
political independence for the National Agricultural Research Board (NARB) and the National
Agricultural Research Institute (NARI) that will be the successor organization to the Department
of Agricultural Research (DAR). The project, to be carried out over five years, would provide
financing for vehicles, equipment, modest civil works, incremental operating costs, trning,
short-term technical assistance, and independent audit of project accounts. The total cost of the
project is estimated at US$17.2 million with a foreign exchange component of US$11.6 million
(67%). A breakdown of costs and the financing plan are shown in Schedule A. Amounts and
methods of procurement and of disbursements, and the disbursement schedule are shown in
Schedule B. A timetable of key project processing events and the status of Bank group operations
in The Gambia are given in Schedules C and D, respectively. The Table of Economic Indicators
is at Schedule E. A map and the Staff Appraisal Report, No. 11093-GM dated December 1,
1992, are also attached.
roe   Implemtation
51.          The project would be implemented by (i) the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
through its Department of Agricultural Services (DAS), Department of Livestock (DLS), and
Department of Planning (DOP); and (ii) the National Agricultural Research Board (NARB), and
the National Agricultural Research Institute (NARI). For minor activities to be implemented for
MOA by the Ministry of Education (ME), i.e. functional literacy training, the Gambia College,
and the Ministry of Natural Resources and Enviromnent (MNRE), MOA would enter into formal
ar.angements acceptable to the World Bank and IFAD, that would stipulate that the Pernanent
Secretary (PS) of MOA, would be responsible for the management of project expenditures for
these components.



- 17 -
52.          Overall responsibilityforoverseeingtheimplementationof all components, except
for agricultural research which would be the responsibility of the National Agricultural Research
Board (NARB), would be with the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry and the day-to-day
coordination would be assured by the Deputy Permanent Secretary, Programs and Projects who
would be - ex officis - Project Coordinator (DPS/PC). The DPSIPC would be assisted in his task
by a small Project Support Unit (PSU), which was already established under ADP-11 as an
integral part of the MOA. The PSU would handle procurement, administration, and mnonitoring
of project implementation for all components except agricultural research. NARB would be
responsible for these activities for the agricultural research component. The PSU and NARB
would also maintain separate project accounts using the recently introduced program budgeting
system (PBS).
53.          Proiect Sustainability. The sustainability of the project is assured by the strong
human resource development component that would build up the capacity of DAS and DLS to
provide effective extension services and of NARB/NARI to provide the country with a steady
flow of appropriate technologies. The organization of farmers into groups and the strengthening
of farmers' associations would increase their capacity to deal with credit issues, input suppliers
and buyers of farm produce, thus reducing in the long-run their dependence on extension staff
for contact and dealings with these issues. MOA's ability to plan and coordinate agricultural
extension at the national level would be greatly enhanced by the project. This would allow for
a more effective system of technology generation, diffusion and adoption and would permit
improved capacity and leadership of other agricultural services, thereby creating a better
opportunity for obtaining and streamlining both internal and external financing.  The
infrastructural requirements of the extension system in terms of office and staff accommodations
would be in place to continue the national program. The recurrent costs can be expected to
decrease with further improvements in extension and research management and it may be
opportune to begin attempting partial cost recovery from certain farmers' associations and to
privatize delivery of extension services for certain cash crops. There will nonetheless be
significant continuing costs to be met for public extension services, to be addressed under a
follow-up project that would be the third five-year time slice of the long-term national program
to improve research and extension services and create strong farmer organizations.
54.          Lessons Learned From Previous IDA Involvement. IDA has financed three
projects in the rural sector and the Women in Development Project which has an agricultural
component. The three projects were: (a) the Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 333-GM,
US$1.3 m:llion, 1972); (b) the Rural Development Project (RDP) (Cr. 644-GM, US$11.7
*            million, 1976), financed by IDA, UK (ODA), and BADEA; and (c) the Second Agricultural
Development Project (ADP-II) (Cr. 1476-GM, US$9.4 million; Effectiveness Date: 11/07/84).
The fourth operation is the Women in Development Project (Cr. 2141-GM, US$7.0 million;
Effectiveness Date: 12/27/90).
55.          Under the first project, the AgiWtural DevelomentPrjet the impact was
mixed. The performance was generally good in physical achievements and the Gambian Produce
Marketing Board satisfactorily carried out its role of importer and supplier of fertilizers to the
project area. However, project performance was not good in several other areas. The expatriate
Project Coordinator was unable to maintain adequate local commitment during project
implementation. The civil works which were financed by ODA had a cost overrun of 228%.
The project did not attempt to promote improvement in dry cereals (sorghum and millet). A
viable cooperatve system to handle credit, input supply and marketing of output was not
achieved.



- 18-
56.          The lessons learned from the second project, the Rural Development Project,
were as follows: (i) there is need for more local involvement in the planning stages to ensure
adequate commitment during implementation; (ii) the promotion of women's farming activities
is important; (iii) more attention should be given to the selection and training of suitable extension
workers; (iv) there is a lack of adequate management and administration expertise in Gambia;
(v) Gambia Cooperative Union (GCU) and the primary cooperative societies require much more
attention than was given in RDP; there is need to strengthen and financially rehabilitate the
cooperatives to enable them to handle input supply, credit and marketing more effectively; and
(vi) there is need to limit recurrent costs after project completion, since the Government could
not provide sufficient recurrent finance to sustain the level of development achieved under RDP.
57.          The third project, Al)P-1} is still ongoing and success with strengthening the
Department of Agricultural Services' (DAS) extension activities has been considerable, although
continuous improvements are necessary to increase extension impact. An understanding of, and
the administrative infrastructure for a national crop extension service based on T&V principles
has been established. Also, the reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture was a success. The
reorganization resulted in the reduction of staff (about 400 persons out of a total of about 1,500)
and the strengthening of the Ministry as an agricultural services institution. However, the
agricultural credit component is not achieving its institution building objectives. After the
introduction by the Gambia Cooperative Union (GCU) of village-based lending in 1987,
recoveries of short-term and medium-term loans were initially satisfactory. However, during the
1990/91 season they fell again to about 50% and it now clear that GCU's financial viability can
only be addressed as part of a global effort to deal with the banking system as a whole.
58.          Although the credit for the fourth project, the WljD pj  only became effective
in December 1990, experience with several of the agricultural sub-components has been positive.
The outlook and operating procedures of the DAS crop extension service are changing and many
more women farmers are being reached. The diagnostic skills of extension agents have been
improved to identify gender specific constraints and new technologies have been identified that
are of special interest and use to women farmers. The proposed project will build on these
achievements, mainstream the focus on women and thereby spread the benefits to women
throughout the country in addition to the 200 target villages of the WID project.
59.          Rationale for IDA Involvement. The project is an integral part of IDA's sector
development strategy and constitutes the second time slice of a long-term national program.
IDA's considerable experience in agricultural extension and research and lessons learned from
previous agricultural projects in The Gambia and from similar projects in the region have been
taken into account during project preparation. Through its involvement the Bank and IFAD
would continue to provide the technical, financW and policy-oriented support which is required
to build-up the country's capacity to develop, borrow and diffuse new agricultural technology.
Furthermore, the project would ensure an appropriate balance between capital and recurrent
expenditures of key public sector institutions, put them into a service mode, and coordinate the
donors' approach in this field.
60.          Agreed Acmin. The Government has agreed on the following actions:
(a)    As conditions of effectveness: (i) appointment of a highly qualified research
manager and a financial expert in the Technical Secretariat of NARB;
(ii) submission of a detailed procurement plan, including timetables, satisfactory
to IDA; (iii) deposit of initial amount into Project Account; (iv) conclusion of



- 19-
satisfactory arrangements between MOA and ME, the Gambia College, and
MNRE concerning the implementation of their respective sub-components;
(v) presenaion of a consolidated training plan for the executing agencies;
(vi) establishmet of NARB and NARI by law; ard (vii) appointment of an
auditing firm.
Ob)   As covenants: (i) before December 31, 1993, the Department of Planning
(DOP) of MOA would sign a contract with an external institution or university
that will provide professional support; (ii) by December 31, 1993, Gambia
College School of Agriculture would alter the curricula of its courses, and
prepare a plan to attact female students; (il) Bank sample documents for the
procurement of goods, works and consultants would be used; (iv) the Borrower
would make provisions in its annual budget for counterpart funds, provide such
funding quarterly in advance and pay it into a Project Account; (v) the Borrower
would maintain the PSU in a form and with functions satisftory to IDA, and
cause MOA to maintain and strengthen its three-year rolling public expenditure
programming system linked to the public budgeting system; (vi) MOA and IDA
would review the training plan annuly and agree on a deta-1ed training plan for
each subsequent year; (vii) continuous mobility of field extension staff would be
ensured through, Inter alta, an appropriate level of allowances paid to such staff,
to be reviewed annually; (viii) before January 1, 1994, the National Agricultural
Research Institute (NARI) would introduce its own research programming and
program implementation monitoring system; (x) the National Agricultural
Research Board (NARB) would seek IDA approval for the proposed scheme of
service for researchers prior to its implementation; (x) during the first year of the
project, NARI would seek consultant assistance in research station
management; (xi) NARB would submit for IDA's approval draft standard
contract specifications for research proposals to be financed through GARF prior
to signing the first such research contr; (xii) subcomponents for promotion of
self-reliance and farmer empowerment would be executed as agreed upon;
(xiii) speciflc,auditing procedures will be adhered to; (xiv) the DPS/PC and the
TS of NARB would submit semi-annual reports highlighting progress in project
implementation, key issues and proposed solutions; and (xv) a mid-term review
would be carried out and a project completion report would be prepared by the
Borrower.
61.          Environmental Aspects. The agro-ecological environment of The Gambia is
difficult and in most regions crops, livestock and trees are subject to stress. Unreliable rainfall
distribution and the increasing frequency of droughts is adding to the difficulties in the
agricultural sector. In addition, expanding human and animal populations are steadily increasing
the pressures on the fragile natural resources.
62.          The main thrust of the work of the research and extension services to be
supported under the project will be increasing agricultural productivity and production in a
sustainable manner. This will be realized primarily by improved cultural practices and improved
herd management, i.e., low-cost (often zero cash cost) and low-risk measures such as soil
conservation, water harvesting, contour planting, zero tilling, composting, alley-cropping, agro-
forestry and better integration of crops and livestock, as well as more efficient application of
chemical fertilizers and pesticides. Adoption of these measures will both increase land
productivity and arrest soil degradation. It is thus anticipated that the proposed project would
be environmentally positive.



-20 -
63.          ProgQM jQiective Cgores. Poverty In The Gambia Is primarily a  mral
phenomenon. Sustained agricultural growth promoted by the project would be of prime
importance in alleviating rural poverty and enhancing food security The project would also
make a special effort In reaching women farmers so as to improve the productivity of their
activities in farming as well as in chWld health care and nutrition.
64.          pmojeB        . The project should gready contribute to the well-being of the
rural population. Most of the 550,000 people in rural areas would benefit from a more dynamic
agricultural education, research and extension system that continuously generates and diffuses
improved agricultural practices. More specifically, project benefits should manifest themselves
in four main areas: (a) increases in production and productivity of both the crop and livestock
sectors A a sustainable manner; (b) better coordination of delivery of agricultural services within
the public sector and with the private sector (NGMs, farmer organizations); (c) human resources:
the project strongly emphasizes training and continuing education programs for farmers, herders
and goverment staff. The project would greatly enhance the capabilities of some 200 staff at
all levels; and (d) institutional development: by further strnngthening the capacity of DAS, DLS,
DOP and the Gambia College, MOA's ability to plan, coors'inate and deliver agriculural support
services to the farming community will be greatly enhanced The project will allow for a more
effective system of technology generation and diffusion and will permit better leadership of other
agricultural services, thereby creating a good oppotunity te streamline donor financial assistance.
6e.          £ia. The risks foreseen, which are common to similar projects supported by
iDA, include: (I) ineffective management of research and extnsion personnel; (ii) low adoption
rates of technical recommendations by farmers and/or slow build-up of applicable technology by
research, especially given its dependence on outside sources of technology and information; and
(ii) the possible failure of the Govermment and/or donors to sustain the long-term commitment
required to achieve durable improvements in the effectiveness of agriculuWal support services.
To minze these risks, the lessons learned under ADP-II, IFAD funded agricultural projects,
and a USAID supported research project have been built into the project design.
66.          Concerning the management of research and extension services, improved
management Is expected as a result of the improved organization, training, monitoring and
evaluation, and technical assistance to be provided under the project. Concerning technical
advice to farmers, ADP-}I has shown that appropriate technologies are available. lTere Is room
for sizeable impr^vements in food crop and livestock production and better natural resouraes
management since many of the country's farmers and herders, especially women, have not yet
had access to extension advice at all. The project also focusses on the pre-xtension testing of
a sizeable body of existing research results. Finally, the annual review of work plans and
budgets, as well as the mid-term implementation review, wUi provide good opporunities for
program review and long-term commitment building.
67.          Rconuendation. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
December 1,1992                                                  &ftWAMA%AOV%m*



-21 -
EHEPULA
,IfiUBLI OF M ;AM
AGRICULTUL SEVCES PROJECT
USS million
BEdmatd Costs a                         -
,             ,,,                      ISOCM        P~~~~~~~~ORESIGN,     OA
1. Agdril Sector Analys & Phanning
- MOA Coordination Unit
- Deparumeatof Pbnning                                  0.1           0.3          0.4
0.4          0.9          1.3
2. Extension Services & Functional Liteacy
- Agricuhd Extension and Communicatios
- Livestk Extenion
- Environment                                            1.3         2.3           3.6
- Fwucdonal Lietacy                                     0.8           1.0          1.8
0.3          1.2          1.5
0.2          0.3          0.5
3. Apcultu  Researcb and Education
- Agricultral Research                                  0.9          2.8          3.7
- School of Adic.- Gambia Collge                        0.1          0.5          0.6
,~ ~ ~ ~~~I -
4. Promotion of SelfReline and Parne Empowerment          0.6           0.9          1.5
8aseCos                                                 4.7         10.2         14.9
Physcal Contingencies                                  0.3           0.7          1.0
Price Contingencies                                    0.6           0.7          1.3
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                             5.6          11.6         17.2
h1     Net of identfiabe taxes ad duties.
LOCAL                  POREIGN                  TOTAL
_____________            US$ million
IWAD                          1.2                      2.4                     3.6
GOVERNMENT                    1.3                      0                       1.3
IDA                           3.1                      9.2                    12.3
TOTAL                     5.6                     11.6                    17.2



-22 -
SCHElDULl! 
Papg 1 of 2
REIWlC OF TpE GAMBA
Ag;;RLlCU  SERVIC:ES MQ=EC
Summary of lsed PnameN    Arranemg2W=
(USS million equivale)
PROJECT ELEMENT                 PRO.RI.D N.P                           TOTAL COST
ICB     LCB    OTHER                _     _ _
1.1 Building                          0.7       0.04                             0.74
(0.7)     (0.04)                           (0.74)
1.2 Ifstucture                                  0.66              QSh            1.16
(0.66)                          (0.66)
1.3 Rehabilitaion and Maintenance                                 0.3      b     0,3
2. ~.~
2.1 Equipment, Machinery,             1.0        0.1      0.1      0.5 h          1.7
Funitue, Materials                (1.0)      (0.1)    (0.1)                  (1.2)
2.2 Vehicles                          0.9        0.1      0.1      0.4            1.5
(0.9)     (0.1)    (0.1)                   (1.1)
3. Qnsu
3.1 Policy Support                                        0.2                     0.2
______ _____ ______ _____ _____   _____(0.2)   (0.2)
3.2 Pojeat Prepartion &                                   0.4     0.5 b           0.9
Implemton Support                                     (0.4)                  (0.4)
3.3  nstional Development                                 0.6     0.6             1.2
_   W  0  T _ _____________________                      (0. )                 .(0.6)
4. Miscelli__
4.1 Training                                              3.9      0.9            4.8
_________              (3.9)                  (3.9)
4.2 IncremerA  Recuouent Costs        0.2        1.4      1.9      1.2            4.7
(0.2)     (1.4)    (1-9)                   (3.5)
TOTAL                                 2.8        2.3      72       4.9           17.2
of which (IDA)                      (2.8)      (2.3)    (7.2)                  (12.3)
NOTE:  Figure in pauenthe are the respective amount financod by fte 1DA Credit N.l.F. Not IDA-financed.
La   Cofinaaced by the Governen.
It   Cofinawe with IPAD. Procrent would be in accordance with World Bank Guidelina: ftm=nt une
D  Lons and Credits (Washington D.C, May 1992).
1  WAD to cofinanoe US$0.7 million of oprting cost. Govemment to contribute US$0.5 mnllion.
1    It is estimated that USS1.8 milon would be for prouremen of fuel, labomtory and office supplie, and spare
parts. Of this, US$0.2 mMion (spare pat) would be prourd by ICB, US$1.4 milion would be procured by LCB
and US$0.2 milion would be procured by prudent shopping. Tle remaining US$1.7 million is for salaries and travel allowances.



-23 -
SCHEULE B
Page 2 of 2
IBPEIC OF THE GAM
AGiMLTM-A ISMCB PROJC
Proposed IDA Allocation     % of Expenditures
Category of Expend tum                      USS million             Finaned by IDA
NARB/NARIl
1.   Civl Works                                             0.2                        40
11.  Vehicles, Equipment, Materials                         1.4                       100
m.  Training                                                0.7                       100
TV.  Consulant Services                                     0.5                       100
V.   Operating Cost L                                       1.0                        75
MINISRY OF AGRICULTURE
VI.  Civil Works                                            0.8                        65
VII.  Vdicle, Equipment, Matiab                             1.1                       100
vm. Taing                                                   2.8                       100
IX.  Consultat Servies                                      0.6                       100
X.   Opeting Costs LI                                       1.4                        90
*          XI.  Unallocatd                                              1.8                                   l
TOTAL                       __                         12.3
/1     The term operating costs means inmcremntal operating costs for travel allowances and local in-
service training expenses for extension and research saff, operating and maintenance costs of
vehicles, equipment and buildings, motorcycle allowances, office and laboratory supplies,
publications, and salaries of incrtmental staff in the coordinating unit of the Ministry of
Agriculture.



- 24 -
SCH1DULE C
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES 
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(a)    Time taken to prepare:           JElS: 03/31/87: 51 months
(b)    Prepared by:                     Government with FAO/CP's assistance *
(c)    First IDA mission:                10/02/91
(d)    Appraisal mission departure:     04/13/92
(e)    Negotiations:                     11/02/92
(f)    Planned Date of Effectiveness:   07/01/93
(g)    List of Relevant PCRs and PARs:    Agriculture Development Project, PAR NO 1724 Rural
Development Project, PCR N° 4558 Agricultural
Development Project, [ER N 5125
*I    The project was prepared by Messrs. F. Schorosch, J. Cerych, J. Weijenberg, and
Ms. J. Masterson (IDA); and Messrs. T. Rychener, S.V.S. Shastry, N. Fernando, G. Onaba,
and Ms. van Offelen (IFAD).



-25 -
SCHEDVJLE D
AliA                                                            Page 1 of 3
Statw Of Ba* Grow Operatlan In GAJIA
PF0M25 - Stary Statsent Of Lom  and IDA Credits
(WA data as of 9& /92- MIS data as of 10/1492)
By CoAutry
Co.ntry:   SIA
nmt In USS mIl lIon
(loen canollatlons)
Loan or      Fisal                                                                                 UlMI- Closln
Credit No.     Year  Borrowr                        Purpms                     sk           IDA    Ixrsed  Oate
credits
14 Credits(s) closed                                                                       80.73
C14430M       1t94   GMIA                            UBAN                                 11.50       1.02  12/31/92(R)
C147610-G     1984   GAIDA                          A6R. OMI  11                           9.40       3.89 08/3/93(8R)
C17240GiI   198?   SAIA                             WATER S./ELEC.                         7.00       5.49 06/V394
C1760041      198?   GA&IA                          POP/IEALMH                             5.60       2.60 12/31/92
C19750-M      1989   SA&SIA                         ENTERPRISE REF  M 0Y                  10.00       7.77 06/3c98
C21410-W      1990   GA)81A                          OEN IN OWELCNT                        7.00 .    5.35 12/3196
C21420-GM     190   G&IA                             MDUC SECTR CREDIT                    14.80      14.10 06/3097
TOTAL nber Credits -   7                                                                    85.10      40.-
TOTALV"                                                                    145.83
of Wilch repaid                                                            2.08
TOTAL held by B S & IDA                                                    143.75
Am.Vt sOld
of Uloh repald
TOTAL utxltised                                                                       40.34
Notes:
* !lOt yet effctive
-  Total Avp d, Repayments. end Outstanding balce represnt both active and Iractive Lons an  Credits.
(R) indlces formlly revised Closin  ate.
(S) Indicates SALL oa  and Credits.
The Not Aoroved ad Ba* Repayents are historical value, all otI rs tre market value.
Tte Slgnin. Effetive. and Closing dates are bsd  uon the Lon Department offial data and are not taen
fro* tU*S tTUIt8Z      file.
Rm Tim: 1w1492 at 12.m.3s
Status Of as Grsm   Ooeatlats in 6UBIA
Pf8         - List of Closed SALs and Secmis
By Coustry
Comtry:   GABIA
Anunt h USS oiligon
(lone cancelatla'u)
Loa or   Fiscal                                                                                 lAi I s- Closirg
Crdit No.  Year  Borrswr                           Rposa                    Bait         IDA    bried  OatS
CA0220.4DJ1 19S7  6GBIA                           SAL- I                               11.50        .00    /
C17300-;W  1987   SMIA                            SAL - I                               5.00        .00 M8/38
C30-M   1989   GMIA                               SAL II                               23.00        .00 O3092(R)
totei OMIIA
39.50       .00



- 26 -
SCHEDULE D
Page 2 of 3
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
AGRILCULTURAL SERVICES PROJECI
Summary of IFC Investments
(As of June 30, 1992)
ORIGINAL GROSS
FISCAL YEAR    OBLIGOR              TYPE OF       COMMITMENT
BUSINESS
LOAN         EQUITY   TOTAL
1984             Kombo Beach       Tourism        2.80          -         2.80
1990             Kombo Beach       Tourism        2.27          1.86      4.13
(Restructring)                                       _
1990             Pelican Seafood    Fisheries     1.05          -          1.05
1991             Mag umba Ya        Agribusiness   0.56        0.37       0.93
(AEF)
Total Gross                     6.68          2.23       8.91
Commitments
Less repayments                 0.34          -          0.34
and exchange
adjustments
Net Commitments                 6.34          2.23       8.57
held by IFC
Total Undisbursed               0.04          -          0.04



- 27 -                                     SCHIDULED
Page 3 of 3
THE IAMIA
1.     Overall disbursement performance was satisfactory in PY92, due primarily to (t progr  with SAL-fl reforms (the
second tranche was released in January 1992) and (u) completon of physical works under the Highway Maintenanco Project,
which was fully disbursed. Nonethele, aix out of nine projects had significant disbureme la . The operton charterizd
by slow disbutsements are noted below.
2.      SecondAcicultumlDevelonmentProject(Cr. 1    AM). ThecreditbecameeffectivonNovember7, 1984,almost
five months after signing. About US$5.5 million has been disbursed. The credit closing date has been extended tmwoo, and the
expected closing date is now June 30, 1993. Delays in disburents are due primarily to the fact that the research component
originally planned under the project was financed by other donors, and the amount initially allocated for research was nover
canceled. In addition, no new contracts for civil works, vehicle purchase or long-term training requesta wero approved by IDA
in the months before the pnvious closing date of June 30, 1992. We expect disbursements to spoed up during the final year
of the projet as most of the funds will be used for preparation of the follow-up project. Govenmennt has aledy psentd a
budget, acceptable to IDA, for the remaining year of the project.
3.      WaterSuvoIv/Eloctric(Cr. 1724-CAM). ThecreditbecameeffeotiveonNovember7, 1984, fivemonthsaftersigning.
Only USS1.5 miiiion out of the total credit of US$7.0 million has been disbursed. Thia situation should inprove in the near
future, as the result of the recent credit reaUocation and IDA approval of a major contract of an csimated value of US$4.0
million.
4.      PohulationeHeaM (Cr. 1760eA. no credit became effecive on November 2, 1987, and iL heduled to close
on December31, 1992. Alffough US$3.0 million of the US$5.6 million credit has been disbursed, there is stil an undisbursed
balanco of US$2.6 million. Good progress continues to be realized in a number of program areas, but delays in disbursements
have occurred due to (i) the decison to provide local training in the country instead of the more expensive overseas taining
initially envisaged; and (ii) the slow pace of implemetation of the civil works program due to delays in the preparation of
archtctural plans for civil wors. Disbursements are expected to pick up as a ret of the proposed credit realocation and
improvemnts in implementation of the civil works program. It will likely be necessary to extend the closing date by one year
in order to permi the Government to complete a number of key activities, par arly in civil works and the ct recovery
program.
5.      Enter;eS  Reform and Develonment (Cr. 1975-GAM). The credit became efflecdve o. kpril 27, 1989, and is
scheduled to close June 30, 1998. Only US$2.2 million of the original credit of US$10.0 million has been disbursed. Tho
project contains a public enterprise component to finance PE reforms through divestiture, normally a lengthy process. After
an inial slow-stat progress regarding the five enterprises to be divested has been satisfactory in the past year. In 1991, two
companies were sold, the dockyard was leased to the private sector, and the Gambia River Transport company was liquidated.
Implementation of the line of credit component has been very slow, and IDA has proposed cancelation of this componeat, which
should resolve the issue of the high disburmnat lg.
6.      Women in Develooment (Cr. 2141-GAM). The credit became effective on December 27, 1990, six months afer
signing. Only US$1.7 million out of the total credit of US$7.0 milion has been disbursed. Commitmen  amount to about
US$1.0 million. Delayed creit efflctiveness and a procuremnt proces that has taken almost 15 months account for the initial
slow dibursements. Construction of the Women's Bureau (about US$250,000), originally soheduled to take place in the first
year of the project, is now expected to sta in early 1993. A sub-component (savings mobilization campaign), for which
US$300,000 had been earmarked, has been dropped, following the restrucuing of the Gambia Women Fiance Assoiation
and a refocus of their strategic plan for the next two years. The US$500,000 FUND for NGOs has not yet been activated.
Following the July 992 workshop to familiarize NGOs with the FUND and its eligibiLity cria, requests for funding have
sarted to amive and are being processed by the Project Management Unit. The project is making good progress on a number
of components and is successfulUy testing new approaches to project implemntaton. It enjoys strong suppott front the
Govenunent, and project staff are genally enthuiastio and highly motivated. The major problem thus far experienced by the
project has boen significant delays in the relase of other donors' funds, which have deayed implmentation of the livestock
and horticulture sub4tomponenta and the skills development component.
7.      Education Sector (Cr. 2142-GAM). The credit became effctive on February 14. 1991, seven and a half months after
signing. Only US$0.5 mitlion have been disbursd, prmarily due to delays in staffing, problema with accounting and difficulties
with procument procedures. Tne replenishn of the Special Account was suspended due to the inadequacies of the project
accounting systen. A qualified accountant has now been appointed and the accounting system and procedur  have been
reorganized. Disburments are expectedtopic up now thata consukant aret has been bired to pieparebidding documents
for construction materials, and a Procurement Specialist has been recruited.
M3A



-28-
The Owbia: Key Nacroeconomic Indicators
(percent except as indicated)
1987      98      1989     1990      1991     1992     1993      1994
...._................................................................... .........................................................................
REAL GROUTN RATE
CDP                                               1.7      4.3      5.2       2.3      4.0      4.5       4.5      5.0
GOP per capita                                    0.5      1.3      1.5       0.7      1.2      1.3       1.5      1.5
ODET SERVICE
Debt service t.n US$ mfillio n)                  39.5     43.8     48.1      26.8     24.2     27.0      28.3     31.2
Debt service/XGNFS /1()                          49.6     49.4      52.9     23.8     21.3     21.7      21.1     21.7
Debt serv!ce/GOP                                 16.2     15.8      16.7      7.9      7.1       7.2      7.2      7.3
RATIOS TO GDP
Gross Domestic investment                        15.S     17.6     20.6      19.3     19.0     19.2      19.8     20.0
Public investment  / (4)                        6.7      5.3      5.1       5.1      5.3      5.4       5.6      5.9
Private investment / (5)                        8.8     12.3     15.5      14.2     13.7     13.8      14.2     14.1
Gross Domestic Savings                           -0.5      4.4      2.5       6.1      6.0      6.6       8.0      8.4
Govermvent revenue                                20.4     23.2     21.7      19.8     20.9     22.1      21.8     22.3
Goverentent expenditure                           36.8     26.0     29.9      24.0     24.8     24.1      23.7     24.0
Overatl deficit (0-")
excLuding grants                               -16.8     -4.1     -8.2      -4.1     -4.1     -2.0      -1.8     -1.8
including grants                                -7.2      1.8     -1.7       1.3      0.9      2.2      2.2       2.0
GOP deflator                                       8.3     13.9      14.8     12.1     11.4      7.0       4.5      4.0
Real Effectfve Exchange Rate                       7.4      4.2      -8.9     -3.3     -3.6
Export Growth / (2)                               45.5     -7.5     14.9    -24.3      11.3     18.3      12.6      5.3
Exports (fob)/GDP / C3)                           32.7     36.5     41.6      41.9     42.6     43.4      42.5     41.6
Inport Growth / (2)                                0.3      8.8     16.9       3.8      2.4      5.1      4.0       4.0
Imports/GDP / C3)                                 44.1     46.5     55.1      55.9     56.6     56.7     55.7      54.6
Current account deticit (in USS milLions)        -38.2    -34.6   -53.4    -42.5       46.1    -46.3    -47.0    -49.9
Current Account/GOP
excluding transfers                          -16.0    -13.2    -18.1    -13.2    -13.9    -12.6    -11.8    -11.6
incLuding transfers                           3.9       1.9     -2.7     -0.1      -0.1     -0.7     -0.1      -0.2
Gross reserves (in months of imports)              2.6      1.7      2.1       3.4      5.0      4.9       5.3      5.6
Stock of Debt (in US$ miLlions)                  291.2    267.3    259.1    263.3   301.4    288.4    288.4    291.4
GOP (in USS millions)                            237.6    263.7    295.3    321.1    355.2    367.3    397.0    430.2
.. ... __.......................... . .........................   ................
(1) As percent of exports and travel income less imports used for re-exports.
(2) Excluding re-exports.
(3) Including re-exports.
(4) Including the public enterprise sector.
(5) Reflects the budget dweelopment expenditure plus capital cosponent of the recurrent budget.



MAP SECTION



IRD 2397
\          lata:  N'                                                                             C, This  map   has   bass A.,+ x. a pG'"dcq  M AURITAN IA
byp?h. Wdd 8aksto -f
1M:0_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"' k, ,-                         >                                      ..                                   ----
.aadoa&   Ind ta f.  aalao
W.                   THE      S TNGAL        MALI
N.                                                                                                                            L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z7~~~~~~~h .hf de~    r -
S      E     N      E      G      A      L                                                            I'l
pa ofToWddts zap                              1
ndasatn an aaaptaa of     NGUINEA 
J- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~
THE   GAMBI~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~UN  ff 
AGRICULTURAL SERVICE PROJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRRI awo
C                                                                                                        _ _ __~~~~~  gi u6 o   at a c   ta m   2   N aton l   apta
D~ Eftom Sov" CovW (25)  0   District Headquarters'-to
. . . . . .          O    Divisional Agriculluml Center (6)     0   Division Headquorters~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0~
WL" 0  10      30                                     Tracks                                SL           0p   rr~'~                                w    \     0t
Rivers                         s      E      N      E      G     A~~~~~~ La b
Z'Zo .m-k-b                           *                           -



