Document of
The World Bank
For Official Use Only
Report No. 20579-GM
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(CREDIT 2453-GM)
June 23, 2000
Rural Development III
Country Department 14
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Dalasi per US$
1993  =   9.15
1994  =   9.58
1995  =   9.55
1996  =   9.78
1997  =   10.19
1998  =   10.71
1998  =   11.00
1999  =   11.20
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AWPB   Annual Work Program and Budget        NARB    National Agricultural Research Board
CG       Contact Group                       NARI    National Agricultural Research Fund
CRD      Central River Division              NGO      Non-Govermnental Organization
DAS      Department of Agricultural Services  PCU     Project Coordination Unit
DEC      District Extension Center           PSU      Project Support Unit
DLS      Departnent of Livestock Services    SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
DOP      Department of Planning              SMS      Subject Matter Specialist
DOSA    Department of State for Agriculture  SOE      Statement of Expense
FNT      Fortnightly Training                SWCU    Soil and Water Conservation Unit
GARF    Gambian Agricultural Research Fund    T&V     Training and Visit
GOTG    Government of the Gambia             VISACA  Village Savings and Credit Association
ICR      Implementation Completion Report    VEW      Village Extension Workers
MTR      Midterm Review                      WUA      Water User Association
MTRM   Monthly Technical Review Meeting
Vice-President Callisto Madavo
Country Director Cadman Atta Mills (Actg)
Sector Manager Jean-Paul Chausse
Task Team Leader Rudolph A. Polson



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(CREDIT 2453-GM)
Table of Contents
PREFACE .....................................................I1
EVALUATION SUMMARY .....................................................                                                       II
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW                                          ...........................................1
A. Introduction                             .........................................................                       1
B. Project Objectives .........................................................1
C. Achievement of Project Objectives .........................................................2
D. Factors Affecting Project Implementation                               ............................................5
E. Sustainability .........................................................7
F. IDA  Performance .........................................................8
G. Borrower Performance ..........................................................8
H. Implementing Agency Performance .........................................................8
I. Project Outcome .........................................................8
J. Future Operation .........................................................9
K. Lessons Leamed .........................................................9
PART  II: Statistical Information ........................................................                                    10
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ........................................................                                  10
Table 3: Project Timetable .........................................................                                      12
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and ActuaL ..................................... 12
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ........................................................    13
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ........................................................                    18
Table 7: Studies Included in Project ........................................................                             18
Table 8: Project Costs ........................................................                                           19
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ..................                           ...................................... 21
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ........................................................                              22
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ............................................... 26
Table 12: IDA Resources: Staff Inputs ..........................                                                           26
Table 13: IDA Resources: Missions ..........................                                                               27
ANNEXES
ANNEX I:  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION AIDE -MEMORE ...................... 28
ANNEX  II:    COMMENTS FROM  BORROWER ....................................................                             37
ANNEX  III:   BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION .................................................... 38
MAP: IBRD 23977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






-i-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(CREDIT 2453-GM)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Services Project for
which credit 2453-GM in the amount of SDR 8.8 million (US$12.3 million equivalent) was
approved on January 12, 1993. The credit closed on March 1, 1999, after it was almost fully
disbursed four months ahead of its planned closing date of June 30, 1999. The last disbursement
took place on March 5, 1999. Of the total amount of SDR 8.8 million dollars a small amount of
SDR357.79 was cancelled.
The ICR was prepared by a team led by Rudolph A. Polson, Task Team Leader within the West
Africa Unit (AFTR3) of the Rural Development and Environment Family of the Africa Region,
and reviewed by Mr. Jean-Paul Chausse, Sector Manager, AFTR3, and Mr. Mahmood Ayub,
Country Director, AFC14. The Borrower has prepared its own completion report, which is
attached unedited to the ICR (Annex 2).
Preparation of the ICR was begun during a mission in March 1999. It is based on materials in the
project file, documents obtained during the mission, and from interviews conducted with various
stakeholder groups in the Borrower's country. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of
the ICR through a national counterpart team comprised of sector officials familiar with the
project which worked closely with IDA's mission in the field. The Borrower also contributed
views which are reflected in the mission's aide-memoire and commented extensively on the draft
ICR.
The ICR process coincided with a review of the financial management of the project by the
Internal Audit Department of IDA (explaining the delay in the completion of this ICR). The
findings of this investigation are summarized in Annex III of the ICR.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(CREDIT 2453-GM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
This is the ICR for the Agriculture Services Project for which Credit 2345-GM in the amount of
SDR8.8 million was approved on January 12, 1983. The credit closed on March 1, 1999 after it
was fully disbursed four months before the scheduled closing date of June 30, 1999. The ICR
process coincided with a review of the financial management of the project by the Internal Audit
Department (IAD) of IDA, and the findings of this investigation are incorporated into the ICR.
Project Objectives
The primary objective of the project was to generate a sustained increase in agricultural
productivity, production and incomes of small-holder farm families by: (i) strengthening
agricultural support services; and (ii) building the capacity of various farm associations and rural
institutions and empowering them to participate in the management of their economic and
institutional environment. The project also focused on the institutional strengthening of the
implementing agency, the Department of State for Agriculture (DOSA), as well as on
establishing a new agricultural research institute, the Gamnbia National Agriculture Research
Institute (NARI), as an independent and financially viable institution.
Implementation Experience and Results
Project implementation occurred under very difficult country circumstances, project activities
were suspended as a result of the uncertainties following the coup in 1994. The performance of
project management and of the Borrower was unsatisfactory. There was a high turnover in the
project's management team as well as within the Office of the Permanent Secretary of DOSA,
which had overall responsibility for guiding and monitoring implementation: there were four
Project Managers and four Permanent Secretaries during the period under review. These frequent
changes in management, and the lack of proper planning and budgeting procedures, affected
project implementation, monitoring and control as well as adherence to agreed targets. In
particular, the financial management of the project was weak. The Association performance was
also unsatisfactory. The Association failed to provide timely advice to the Borrower especially
during critical stages of project implementation; it did not ensure appropriate skills mix for
supervision, did not provide systematic guidance on the preparation of annual work programs



-iii-
and budget (AWPBs), and did not follow up on the findings and recommendations of the
project's independent auditor during its implementation support missions.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
The broader project objective of generating sustained increases in agricultural productivity and
incomes was not achieved. Key institutional building efforts -- notably capacity-building within
the ministry's planning department and the establishment of a truly polyvalent, responsive
agriculture services -- were not fully achieved. While the project was successful in establishing
an independent National Agriculture Research Institute (NARI), it failed to put into place a
sustainable funding mechanism to support its activities. Key lessons learned from the
implementation of this operation are summarized in para. 35. They include: the critical need for
IDA, in countries where implementation capacity is low, to provide regular, systematic
implementation support through adequately staffed supervision missions providing guidance on
and monitoring all aspects of the operation, including fiduciary aspects; the importance of
preparing detailed annual work programs, procurement plans and budget (AWPB) to guide
program implementation; and the importance of taking to account recommendations of the
independent auditor in subsequent supervision missions.



-1 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(CREDIT 2453-GM)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW
A. Introduction
1.    At the time of project appraisal in 1992, agriculture accounted for about 25 percent of GDP of
The Gambia and provided employment for more than 75 percent of the country's labor force.
Groundnuts were the country's major foreign exchange earner. At the broader macro-level, the
Government's strategy focused on establishing and maintaining a policy environment conducive to
economic growth. At the sectoral level, the agricultural development strategy called for increased
efficiency and productivity in the production of the principal export crop (groundnut), diversification
into other cash crops, and increased production of food crops (rice, maize, roots and tubers, etc.)
through an improved agricultural technology generation and dissemination system. IDA supported the
Government's strategy through the Economic Recovery Program and the Agriculture Services Project.
Preparation of this operation took into account prior lessons of experience in implementing three
similar projects in the agriculture sector: the Second Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 1476-GM),
the Gambia Agricultural Research and Diversification Project (funded by USAID), and the Jahally
Pachar Small-holder Irrigation Project (funded by IFAD).
B. Project Objectives
2.    The project's overall objective was to generate sustained agricultural productivity gains and
growth in the income of small-holder families through the strengthening of support services in
agricultural extension, research and training; and building the capacity of, and empowering farmer
groups and associations to increase their participation in the management of their policy and
institutional environment. The project's specific objectives were: (i) building the capacity for
agricultural sector analysis and planning within the Ministry of Agriculture, the overall implementing
agency; (ii) consolidating, improving and strengthening agricultural extension services for crop and
livestock production and for natural resources management; (iii) supporting and expanding a program
of functional literacy for rural dwellers; (iv) strengthening the Gambian agricultural research system
and providing support to the Agricultural School of the Gambia College which assisted in training
extension agents; and (v) promoting greater self-reliance and empowering farmers through- pilot
activities in the Central River Division (one of Gambia's six administrative regions) focusing on
testing new approaches to farmer participation and self-management in several areas including
irrigation management and rural savings and loans schemes.
3.    The project was implemented by two separate entities, the Ministry of Agriculture (now
Department of State for Agriculture-DOSA) responsible for the institutional capacity building and
agriculture services components, and the National Agricultural Research Board (NARB) responsible
for the agricultural research component. The latter entity was created as a condition of effectiveness of



-2-
IDA credit. The fourth component --promotion of self-reliance and empowerment of farmers-- was
also implemented by DOSA, but remained essentially a free-standing, IFAD-financed subproject
(IFAD did not finance other project activities).
4.    The project's objective was consistent with both the Government's overall economic and social
development strategy and IDA's assistance strategy. However, its design contained several
weaknesses, in particular: (i) it called for establishing a new agency - the National Agricultural
Research Board-- as a condition of project effectiveness while at the same time giving it immediately
the full responsibility for managing an entire component, with a self-standing Special Account; and
(ii) it aimed at establishing fully integrated, polyvalent extension services component at the field level,
including crop and livestock activities, while at the same time maintaining at national level separate
Departments for crop and livestock with direct/staff responsibilities. It also appears that the appraisal
team did not properly assess the capacity of the agencies in charge of the implementation of the various
components and the policy-making and monitoring capacities of DOSA. Although identified project
risks were in line with experience in other countries for similar projects, the operation's design may
have from the start been too complex and demanding for available human and institutional capacities.
C. Achievement of Project Objectives
5.    The project's overall objective of generating sustained agricultural productivity gains and
increases in the incomes of small farming families was not achieved. However, the project was
successful in strengthening the technical capacity of the implementing agency, the Department of State
for Agriculture (DOSA) at the central level and in establishing an autonomous National Agricultural
Research Institute (NARI). Failure to establish a sustainable funding mechanism for NARI through a
Research Fund, however, affected the latter's ability to execute research programs in the short to
medium term. Detailed assessments of the achievement of specific components are discussed below.
Given its importance in overall project implementation, the training program is discussed separately
(paras. 15-16).
C.1. Strengthening Capacityfor SectorAnalysis
6.    The objective of this component was to strengthen the capacity of the planning units of DOSA
and of the Department of State for Natural Resources and the Environment (DOSE) for sector policy
analysis. The training program related to this objective was designed to enable these agencies to better
formulate development plans and policies in agriculture and NRM, analyze factors affecting resource
use and the demand for and the supply of agricultural inputs and outputs, and strengthen capacity for
project appraisal and for monitoring activities in the rural sector. Under this component, the
Department of Planning (DOP) of DOSA was to undertake a number of policy studies (Table 7) and
establish partnership with an external institution for the provision of the technical support that would
enable DOP to strengthen its own analytical and planning capacity.
7.    These objectives (especially as elaborated in the SAR) appear to have been too broad and
ambitious for the DOP. While the importance of infusing new knowledge and skills into DOP to
strengthen its planning functions was clear, the proposed linkage with an external institution, which
was key in the capacity enhancement process, never took take place. In addition, DOP never
succeeded in establishing the critical mass of staff for efficiently carrying out its core responsibilities as



-3-
many of its staff who were sent abroad for training for this specific purpose were reassigned to other
departments upon their return. Also, DOSA did not establish a formal priority setting or funding
arrangement with DOSE (the other beneficiary ministry), thereby leaving environmental aspects
without clear priority or funding. As a result of these events, DOP and DOSE are only marginally
better equipped (in physical and human resources terms) to execute their respective responsibilities at
the project's closing than they were at its inception.
C.2. Strengthening of Extension Services
8.    This component focused on the three service delivery agencies: the Department of Agriculture
Services (DAS) and the Department of Livestock Services (DLS), both within DOSA; and the Soil and
Water Conservation Unit (SWCU) of DOSE. For DAS, the objective was to institutionalize and expand
nation-wide the T&V approach to service delivery initiated under the previous project, and to improve
service delivery to small-holders. For the Department of Livestock Services (DLS), the objectives were
to change the approach to livestock extension, with the introduction of a time bound and supervised
work program and continuous training. The two agencies were to achieved effective integration into a
polyvalent service delivery mechanism at the field level. For the SWCU of DOSE, the objective was to
strengthen its outreach activities and to undertake two environment-related studies on the Gambia river
flow and salination.
9.    Overall, achievement of the objective of the extension component (comprising both livestock
and agricultural services) was unsatisfactory. At the end of the project, there still remain institutional
rigidities which continue to prevent the effective integration of the two extension services at the farm-
level. Livestock and crops extension services continue to function as two separate line services
answerable to two separate national directors. At the field level, attainment of effective polyvalence
proved difficult due to logistics constraints and the lack of appropriate facilities, especially at the
District-level where integration should have occurred (many key extension-related infrastructure,
notably the District Extension Centers (DECs) and Veterinary Health Posts were not rehabilitated
during the course of the project). There also were difficulties in providing effective support to frontline
extension staff (both crops and livestock) for the performance of their assigned task: during the latter
stages of project implementation, provision of critical inputs such as fuel for motorbikes and vehicles,
were drastically curtailed -- in the case of fuel rations for village extension workers, the reduction was
nearly 75 percent of the monthly quota of 20 liters. The extension-related training programs
(fortnightly and monthly technical review meetings) and field visits were also drastically curtailed
during the last two years of the project. The higher-than-planned utilization of project resources for
non-field related activities, notably DOSA operating costs and regional and overseas training were the
primary reasons for this reduction in services to small-holders with the resulting low farmer exposure
to improved technologies. A technology adoption and diffusion study undertaken by DOP found that
there was indeed a low awareness among farmers of key technologies and that there were often low
levels of participation of farmers in many of these field activities'. The SWCU related activities were
not carried out at all as a result of the restructuring of DOSA.
I Department of State for Agriculture, Adoption/Diffusion Evaluation Report of Crop and Livestock Extension, Republic
of the Gambia, June 1997.



-4-
C3. Strengthening the Agricultural Research System
10.   The objectives were to strengthen the national agriculture research system and provide support
to the Agriculture College of the Gambia for the latter to better assist in providing in-service training
for extension staff. A key component of the strengthening the agriculture research system was the
establishment of a National Agriculture Research Institute (NARI) with an independent board known
as the National Agriculture Research Board (NARB) and a strong Technical Secretariat. The project
was to also establish a Garnbian Agriculture Research Fund (GARF).
11.   Overall, achievement under this component was partially satisfactory. NARI was established
and is evolving into a credible research entity. A medium-term Research Master Plan was prepared
with assistance from FAO and the UNDP. NARI was able to execute a minimal research program
under the project and put forth a number of technical messages and improved seeds (Table 5C). Also,
NARI's work program are subject to annual reviews by donors and government. All donors involved
in financing agricultural research in the Gamnbia are members of this review sub-committee, including
FAO, UNDP and the Catholic Relief Services. However, in recent years, the activities of NARI have
been affected by the dire funding situation. The GARF was not established. There was uncertainty at
NARB and NARI as to how this fund should be operated and, despite repeated requests from the
Borrower, IDA supervision missions did not provide adequate guidance on setting up the research
fund until the Mid-term Review (MTR), by which time insufficient funds remained in the credit for its
establishment.
12.   The Agricultural School of The Gambia College was supported and quality and relevance of its
two-year certificate and three-year diploma courses improved. The curriculums were adjusted and
strengthened in support of a polyvalent extension service. In-service training courses were provided
for DAS and DLS staff. The school was provided with additional computer equipment. A laboratory
and a class block were constructed, but the required laboratory equipment was not delivered until after
credit closing. Equipment was also purchased for a model demonstration/teaching farm. The poultry
breeding equipment is in operation, but no provision was made for the installation of irrigation
equipment that had been procured.
C.4. Promotion of self-reliance and Farmer Empowerment
13.   The specific objectives of this component were to test various ways of empowering farmers and
make them more self-reliant through the following pilot initiatives: (i) a functional literacy program to
reach about 5,000 people in 65 villages; (ii) the establishment of water user associations and training of
farmers to take over the management of paddy fields; (iii) the introduction of intermediate, labor-
saving technologies (animal traction); (iv) the training of village entrepreneurs; (v) the promotion of
village savings and credit associations (VISACAS) (6 existing and 15 new); and (vi) the provision of
support to community-initiated self-help activities and social infrastructure.
14.   Overall, achievement of the objectives of this component was satisfactory. Support for
functional literacy and numeracy programs resulted in 3,500 farmers (men and women) to become
functionally literate, as measured by standardized tests, while several thousand others have reached
intermediary levels. Water user associations were established in the Jahally Pacharr scheme and many
farmers, predominantly women, are currently registered members of these WUAs (2,790 farmers over
120 associations). Although training has been given in water management and maintenance of



-5-
structures and distribution channels, full management control has not yet been given to these
associations. The credit component was implemented successfully, although at a slower pace than
anticipated. By 1997, only 7 new VISACAS had been established, with 4 under development in 1998.
Experience with credit repayment has been very positive, running close to 100 percent. Only one
VISACAS has failed due to community-specific reasons as opposed to design or institutional reasons.
In this particular case, the local chief, who was also the principal money lender in the village opposed
the development of the VISACAS. NGOs participated substantially in their implementation or many
of these activities were contracted out directly to them.
C.S. Training Program
15.   The formal degree training was poorly designed, implemented and monitored, both by the
Association and the Borrower. Despite the relative importance of training program (23 persons for
formal degrees), only a short-term consultancy was planned to identify training needs. The plan
prepared by Government as a condition of effectiveness identified the need for 24 M.Sc. and 20 B.Sc.
degree training (21 more than in the SAR), 30 diploma/certificate training (48 man-months in the
SAR), 107 study tours, and a lump sum for in-service and other training. The total costs for this
program was estimated at Dalasi 32.0 million (about US$3.3 equivalent).
16.   During project implementation, the envisaged short-term consultancy, which was critical to
refine the training plan, was not carried out. The annual training program were decided on the initial
plan, which increasingly deviated from the original plan described in the SAR. No control system was
established nor were efforts made by the Borrower's implementing agency to verify if the proposed
annual training programs reflected DOSA priorities or assess budget implications. By 1996, the
independent auditor noted that the disbursement category for the DOSA-related activities was
overdrawn, but no step was taken by successive supervision missions until it was too late. In total, two
Ph.D. candidates were sent overseas, 55 staff received training leading to an M.Scs., and 28 to a B.Scs.
In addition, a large number of DOSA staff benefited from participation in workshops and
diploma/certificate training. Actual expenditures on training amounted to US$5.1 million equivalent
(compared to US$4.3 million planned) under the DOSA and NARI components. The cost overrun was
less than would normally be expected given the large number of participants, because the in-service
training program for extension staff (fortnightly training and monthly technical review meetings) was
much less than budgeted and a considerable margin for extra training had been provided in the cost
estimates of the SAR. However, the external training was done largely at the expense of other key
project objectives, such as extension service delivery to rural beneficiaries.
D. Factors Affecting Project Implementation
D.I.I. Outside Control of Government andImplementingAgency
17.   Project implementation was suspended for a six month period, as a result of the uncertainties
following the coup in July 1994. The suspension greatly affected all project activities, especially
extension activities and the pilot activities in the Central River Division (MacCarthy Island Division).



-6-
D.1.2. Under Control of Governmentand ImplementingAgency
18.   Although counterpart funding requirements were particularly important, in particular for the
civil works of NARI and DOSA, Government met its obligations and the timing and level of
counterpart funding overall presented only a minor problem during project implementation.
19.   The two main issues affecting project implementation were the use of project funds to make up
budgetary shortfall following the sharp curtailment of donor support in the aftermath of the 1994 coup,
which in turn led to a substantial curtailment of field level activities. The former event also caused a
substantial overrun on operating expenditures of the project (Table 8). The training program, especially
the opportunities for external training became an increasingly attractive project activity. It was only
near the end of the project life that a robust assessment of the training program was undertaken,
revealing serious over-commitments, that it became apparent that funds were insufficient to meet
already incurred obligations. Further training was stopped and Government accepted responsibility
and consequently allocated an amount of D2.17 million (US$0.22 million equivalent) in the 1999
budget to pay for the completion of studies by students still abroad.
D.2. Other
20.   Procurement. As a condition of effectiveness, DOSA submitted a procurement plan to the
Association for the first year of project execution. Afterwards, no procurement planning was
undertaken as part of the annual work program and budgeting exercise. Consequently, procurement
was carried out for each of the implementing agencies on an ad hoc basis, with local shopping the
preferred method (both for expediency and because the amounts involved in each request were rather
small). As a result, the aggregate limit for local shopping in the DCA of US$400,000 was exceeded by
US$1.7 million. In many instances, local shopping procedures were not fully adhered to, and although
this was flagged by the auditors, no thorough follow-up was taken during subsequent IDA supervision
missions.
21.   Other than training in basic World Bank procurement procedures, the project was provided no
support in procurement planning from either IDA supervision missions or other sources. Supervision
missions tended to ignore this issue. This reveals another paradox: while the project spent millions of
dollars or external training, little effort was spent to strengthen the capacity of the PMU to oversee
these programs.
22.   Financial and Administrative Management. Administrative management of the project was
satisfactory. Apart from some minor comments in the management letter, the annual audit reports
raised no serious issues. The major weaknesses of the financial management system were the
insufficient attention paid by project managers and auditors to future liabilities such as those related to
long-term training, and the management of SOEs. The skills mix used for supervision comprised
largely extension and research specialists, and financial management expertise was little used
(primarily used only for project launching and the MTR). The financial management software was
provided by the parent company of the firm that performed the annual audit on the project's accounts,
an arrangement approved by the Association supervision missions.



-7-
23.   Legal Covenants. With the exception of the earlier mentioned higher-than-agreed aggregate
amount for local shopping, all legal covenants were adhered to. The specific covenants contained in
the DCA, related to counterpart funding, the creation of NARI and the setting up of a technical
secretariat, support to the PSU, a mid-term review, and undertaking of a technology adoption and
diffusion study, were all met.
24.   Consulting Services. Consulting services contracted under the project, albeit at a much lower
level than planned, were satisfactorily provided.
25.   Monitoring, Planning and Evaluation. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) responsibility for
the project was given to DOP, while a separate unit was set up for the IFAD funded sub-project.
Progress reports were prepared for individual components, but DOP did not aggregate these progress
reports by the different implementing agencies into an overall report. Tracking overall implementation
progress was therefore difficult. In some cases, there were divergent views among the various agencies
(DAS, DLS and DOP) regarding the impact of technologies promoted under the project.
26.   Project Costs and Financing. Actual project costs are estimated at Dalasi 189 million
(US$18.9 million), compared to Dalasi 156.7 million (US$17.2 million equivalent) at appraisal. Of the
actual project costs, US$12.3 million equivalent was contributed by IDA (as planned), US$3.6 million
equivalent by IFAD (as planned), and US$3.0 million by Government (US$1.3 million was planned).
Detailed information is provided in Table 8. The change in project costs is mostly due to increased
spending on operating expenditures using local shopping methods (400 percent for the DOSA
components and 300 percent for the NARI/NARB component) and training (16 percent on the DOSA
related training and 30 percent for NARI/NARN). The overrun in these categories was made up for by
less-than-estimated expenditures on consulting services and by cutting back substantially on field
activities. The overrun in operating expenditures was not caused by higher than estimated field costs,
but by an increasing use of project funds by DOSA to finance budgetary shortfalls in its central
operating budget.
E. Sustainability
27.   Based on the definition used in the SAR, many key project outcomes are not sustainable. The
SAR focused on more effective extension and research services as a result of the human resources
development activities, and the increased capacity of farmers to deal more effectively with issues of
input, credit and marketing of production as a result of strengthened associations. Although the training
activities would have built up the long-term capacity of DOP to plan and monitor investment activities,
this agency still does not possess a critical mass of trained staff as some staff who were trained were
later transferred to other departments. The extensive training of NARI staff has helped to lay the
foundation for a more effective research system, but NARI still has difficulties with obtaining adequate
funding for its programs. When the project closed, service delivery to small-holders nearly grounded to
a halt.
28.   Sustainability of the IFAD sub-project achievements are more likely, as key activities will
continue to be supported by the beneficiaries themselves.



-8 -
F. IDA Performance
29.  IDA's performance from appraisal through implementation was unsatisfactory. During the
appraisal stage, the Association could have done more in assisting the government in properly
identifying underlying sectoral constraints which would have helped sharpened project objectives. As
already noted, the human resource development aspects (training) was poorly designed. There were
other key areas where The Association performance was unsatisfactory: (i) the Association failed to
provide adequate guidelines for implementing the GARF; (ii) the operational relationship between
NARI and NARB was not properly clarified, leading to conflicts; (iii) IDA should have done more to
integrate the two services (crops and livestock) to achieve effective polyvalence at the field level while
reducing the overall cost of service provision; (iv) IDA failed to provide adequate skills mix for
purposes of supervision, and much more attention should have been given to procurement and financial
management aspects; (v) IDA did not undertake regular SOE reviews during supervision mission: had
this been done on a consistent basis, the misuse of local shopping would have been uncovered much
earlier on during implementation; and (vi) IDA failed to insist on the preparation of annual work
programs and budgets to guide project implementation, and agreed on reallocation of credit proceeds
without an assessment of the impact on overall project execution and objectives.
G. Borrower Performance
30.   On the whole, Borrower's performance was unsatisfactory. The Borrower failed to properly
monitor project implementation, and was directly responsible for many of the over-commitments
which took place, especially under the training program. Very little coordination took place between
NARI and DOSA in setting training priorities and in monitoring their implementation, to the extent
that students receiving training in the same institutions were on separate per diem systems. In addition,
the Borrower could have done more to ascertain that staff were transferred from the Livestock,
Fisheries and other departments to complement staff of the newly established NARI.
H. Implementing Agency Performance
31.   The Project Support Unit's (PSUs) performance was also unsatisfactory. The PSU did not
properly monitor SOEs nor did it provide information to alert policymakers of these overruns.
Understandably, staff of the PSU were often in a difficult position as they were given relatively little
say in project planning and execution. As a result, the aggregate local shopping ceiling was greatly
exceeded. Delays in providing inputs to executing agencies was often due to delays in reconciling the
advances given to the executing agencies because the latter did not provide the required paperwork in
an efficient manner, thus leading to cash crunches as the special account could not be replenished.
I. Project Outcome
32.   The project's outcome, based on its core objectives of increasing the agricultural productivity
and incomes of small farming families is rated as unsatisfactory by the ICR mission (the latest Project
Status Report rates the project as satisfactory). Areas of positive project outcome are as follows:



-9-
(a)   Substantial human resources development has been provided by the project, far beyond
that which was foreseen in the SAR, although this has not yet translated into significant
gains in terms of improved extension planning and delivery.
(b)   For agricultural research, a relatively strong institution has been established, which will
be able to generate an improved stream of technologies, provided the long-term financial
sustainability problem can be resolved.
33.   No economic evaluation of the project was carried out at appraisal; instead the staff appraisal
report included a cost-benefit analysis, which was the practice in the relevant IDA's country
department at the time. The analysis concluded that an almost two percent increase in rural GDP was
required for the project to break even (a tall order). Based on the marginal impact of the project on
technology diffusion/adoption, it is highly likely that the project's impact on production has been much
less than planned and the break even point has not been reached.
J. Future Operation
34.   The Borrower is commnitted to the development of a strong rural development sector as part of
its Vision 2020 Strategy. This is based strategy, to a large extent, on increasing the productivity of
farmers by the infusion of low cost and appropriate technologies, the restructuring of sector institutions
to provide timely and cost-effective services, and support for community-level infrastructural
development. In this context, and in spite of the poor performance and impact of the project, the
Government has requested IDA support for the preparation of a follow-on operation.
K. Lessons Learned
35.   The key lessons learned from project implementation include the need for more thorough
institutional analysis prior to creating new institutions and, although a rather pedestrian one, the
paramount importance of strong implementation assistance by the Association, through the use of
appropriate skills mix for supervision, in particular when Government's implementation and
monitoring capacities are weak. These lessons are not knew or unique to the Gambia, but he ASP
experience demonstrates what can go wrong if they are ignored by project teams. Other specific lessons
concerned the following:
(a)   the importance of undertaking proper assessment of key sector constraints to guide
project design;
(b)   the critical importance of preparing annual work programs and budgets (AWPBs) to
guide project implementation;
(c)   the need for systematic monitoring of SOEs during supervision missions; and
(d)   the need to incorporate recommendations of the independent auditors in future
supervision.



-10-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(CREDIT 2453-GM)
PART II: Statistical Information
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives                  Substantial      Partial     Negligible      Not applicable
Macro policies                                                                L                   [  ]
Sector policies                                II               LI             m
Financial objectives                            LI                 i 
Institutional development                      LI                             Li                   II
Physical objectives                             L                Li            EL
Poverty reduction                                  i             L             E
Gender issues                                   L                             LI                  LIII
Other social objectives                         Li              I]                                L
Environmental objectives                        L                L                                 l
Public sector management                                        L  C]I]
Private sector management                          i             Li            Cl                    ]
Other (specify)                                    ]               i          Li 
B. Project sustainability                          Likely               Unlikely             Uncertain
L1                  E]                       Li
Highly
C. Association performance                       satisfactory         Satisfactory            Deficient
Identification                                      []                  [                          L
Preparation assistance                              El                  [3                         Li
Appraisal                                            CI                  L                         B]
Supervision                                           I                  L                           ]



-1 1-
Highly
D. Borrower performance                       satisfactory         Satisfactory          Deficient
Preparation                                       D                    [
Implementation                                    ETI
Covenant compliance                              []                  [                       [
Operation (if applicable)                          I                                         L
E. Assessment of outcome                      Highly                                       Highly
satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
LI    LI   [E 



-12-
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Loan/credit title       Purpose                                          Year of         Status
approval
Preceding operations
Rural Development       Increase of cereal and cash crop production and   1976           Closed
Project (Cr. 644-GM)    livestock husbandry of about 48,000 farmers in 65
villages.
Second Agricultural                                                       1984           Closed
Development Project (Cr.                  3
1476-GM)
Women in Development Pilot component to increase women's agricultural     1990           Closed
(Cr. 2141 -GM)          productivityl
Following operations
Agricultural Sector                                                   Identification   Expected Board
Support Progrwn                                                           Stage      date is FY2001l
Table 3: Project Timetable
Stpsi projcyl                     Date planned          Date actual/latest estimatel
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                            March 1987
Preparation                                                           October 1991
Appraisal                                                             June 1992
Negotiations                                                          November 1992
Letter of development policy (if applicable)   NA                     NA
Board presentation                                                    January 12, 1993
Signing                                        February 1993          April 28, 1993
Effectiveness                                  July 28, 1993          October 25, 1993
Project completion                             December 31, 1998      December 31, 1998
Credit closing                                 June 30, 1999          March 01, 1999
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98    FY99
Appraisal estimate             3.0      7.0      9.0       10.7     12.3      12.30
Revised2                      1.40      3.72     8.04     9.74      11.34     11.34
Actual                        1.39      3.71     7.73      11.67    12.76    12.77
Actual as % of estimate
Date of Last Disbursement
2      Not formally revised.



-13-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
A. Extension Inputs and Outputs
Department of Agricultural Services (only)
Mid-Term Review                  Project Co mletion
Activity/Objective       Indicator            Project         Estimated        Actual        Estimated          Actual
Start-up
A. Program Inputs
VEWs                     number                 111              111             96             111               763
District Supervisors     number                 25               25              25             27                27
Division Supervisors     number                  6                12             9              12                 10
SMS                      number                  18              20              27             20                29
Other extension and      number                  72              72             N/A.            72               N/A.
project staff4
Vehicles                 number                   9               9              9               9                 8
Motorcycles              number                  35              111            111             111               100
B. Program Outputs
Villages covered by VEW    total and per VEW   36015            710/5           580/6          960/7             384/5
Contact groups formed    total and per VEW     560/8           1,660/12        768/8         2,200/16            456/6
Farmers in contact groups  total and per VEW  3,400/50         9,000/70       6,144/64      23,000/170          4,500/60
Microplots established   total and per VEW     560/8           1,660/12       1,426/15       2,800/20           1,244/16
Demonstration plots in   total and per VEW     205/2            138/1           318/3        2,762/20             52/1
farmers fields
Training session for VEW    number               3                12             8          not defined            2
Training session for SMS    number               4                6              4          not defined            1
Woman Farmers as         percent                 20               35            46.7            50                53.2
percent of farmers reached
C. Results
Groundnuts               yields                1,124          not defined       720         not defined          1,048
E. Millet                yields                1,086          not defined       1,161       not defined          1,230
Upland rice              yields                 907           not defined       930         not defined          1,050
Swamp rice               yields                1,567          not defined       1,115       not defined          1,020
Maize                    yields                1,626          not defined       1,220       not defined          1,400
Sorghum                  yields                1,104          not defined       1,080       not defined          1,100
L. Millet                yields                 823           not defined       918         not defined          1,000
3       Excluding VEWs undergoing 3 year training at the Gambia College.
4       It is not clear how the appraisal team established this number.



-14-
B. Research Outputs - Development ofNew Technologies
Fortnightly Training and Monthly Technical Review Meetings
anagemen o  ra animals, ncep  u ion,
1995 FNT      vegetable production, harvesting techniques         12       192 SMSs, VEWs, LAs, DESs  in 36 sites
I SMSS ADACs, DAC, NARI,
DVO, plus technical units
MTRM                                                   1       6       52 outside of extension service in 2 sites
Forage conservation, fertilizer use and management,
weed management, cereals (harvesting and
processing), Striga management options, composting,
haymaking, feed and feeds preservation, vegetable
production planning, rural poultry management, sheep
fattening, aflatoxin control, storage principles and
practices, handling and processing of groundnuts,
1996 FNT      pest and disease management on vegetables            18      195 SMSs, VEWs, LAs, DESs  in 36 sites
SMSs, ADACs, DAC, NARI,
DVO, plus technical units
MTRM                                                           9       45 outside of extension servic in 2 sites
Ireservation and processing ot fruits and vegetables,
|range management, problems of aflatoxin, tomato
paste processing, poultry production, fertilizer
management and compost making, weed
management and herbicide use, early season pest
and disease                                          9       164 SMSs, VEWs, LAs, DESs  in 24 sites
management, management of draught animals, striga
management, harvesting and processing of early
cereals, intensive feed gardens/use of leguminous
1997 FNT      trees, hay forage
SMSs, ADACs, DAC, NARI,
DVO, plus technical units
MTRM                                                           5       42 outside of extension servic in 2 sites
early season pests of major tield crops and
vegetables, weed management, communication skills,
1998 FNT     report writing guidelines                              1      145 SMSs, VEWs, LAs, DESs  in 24 sites
I  I  I                                     I        |        |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SMSs, ADACs, DAC, NARI,|  
l   l   l                                   l        |        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DVO, plus technical units|  
IMTRM                                                          1 I      36loutside of extension service in 2 sites
LA       Livestock Assistant
DES      District Extension Supervisor
SMS      Subject Matter Specialist
DAC      Divisional Agricultural Coordinator
DVO      Divisional Veterinary Officers
ADAC    Assistant DAC



-15-
C Research Outputs - Development of New Technologies
Technology/Technical Recommendation                 Prior to MTR              After MTR5
Cereals program                                19 improved rice varieties
Cropping Systems and Resources Management     planting dates for all major crops
fertilizer recommendations for all major
crops
intercropping strategies for food and
cash crops
weed management strategies
Soils Analysis Laboratory                     national soil fertility map
Agricultural Produce and Chemistry Laboratory  intervention scheme for aflatoxin
control
data on biochemical composition of
some indigenous and exotic plants and
products
Horticulture                                  Super Roma tomato
Pierson tomato
12 high yielding sweet potato varieties
6 short day onions
horticultural production manual
Grain Legumes and Oilseeds                    selection of 6 groundnut varieties
Agricultural Engineering                      draft animal technology (reducing of
draft power)
construction of grin dryer prototypes
modification of village mills
solar cookers
promotion of Asian sickle for rice
harvest
Seed technology                               quality control, training, seed
certification
Livestock                                     newly initiated, other research activities
have been carried out by DAR
Agroforestry                                  database
Socio-economics                               characterization of peri-urban
agriculture
diagnostics
Pest Management                               grasshopper control
5     (Data not available given the short period between the MTR and project closure).



-16-
E. Other Project Components
Mid-Term              End of Project
Component                  Indicator         Estimated    Actual   Estimated    Actual
A. Sector Analysis         Specific Policy Studies           2                        5
B. Farmer Empowerment
- non-formal education     No. of Beneficiaries           1,200                   3,500     3,4596
women                                                                                     1,800
men                                                                                       1,659
- formation of water user    No.                            50                      175
associations
- introduction of animal   No. of users                    200                     800
traction in irrigated rice
- training of village      No.                              30                       80
entrepreneurs
- promotion of new         No.                               5                       15
VISACAs
- support for community    No.                              40                       90
initiated self-help
activities
6      Of these, 940 women and 820 men are considered functionally literate, 574 women and 690 men are considered to
have reached an intermediate stage, and 286 women and 149 men are beginners.



-17-
F. Degree Training
B.Sc. Level                                    M.Sc. Level                                          Other7
Government                                      Government                                      Government
Proposal at                                     Proposal at                                     Proposal at
Appraisal          Credit                        Appraisal          Credit                     Appraisal           Credit
Estimate       Effectiveness       Actual        Estimate       Effectiveness      Actual      Estimate         Effectiveness         Actual
PSU and DOSA                                   0                                               1               4          others       2 dip/cert          4 other
20 study tours
others
CG                                            0                                                2               4          others       6 study tours       1 dip/cert
others              1 workshops
l ___________________                   ._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  I__ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   1    o th e r
DAS                          4                8                11             5                8              20          others       6 diplcert          10 dip/cert.
others              1 other
DLS                          2                 4               10             1                5               5          others       5 dip/cert          13 dip/cert
17 study tours
others
DOP                          3                2                4              2                2               4          others       5 dip/cert          6 dip/cert
10 study tours      3 workshops
others
DARJNARI                     2                 5               3              5                5              15          others       10 dip/cert         2 Ph.D.
15 study tours      13 CG
others              22 HND
23 other
National                                       1               1                               1               4          others       2 dip/cert
Environmental                                                                                                                          19 study tours
Agency/Others                                                                                                                          others
TOTAL                       11                20               28            12                24             55          others       30 dip/cert         2 Ph.D.
30 dip/cert
102 study tours     4 workshops
others              22 HND
13 CG
29 other
HND    = Higher National Diploma
Dip/cert = Diploma or certificate training
7                Information under the other column is incomplete given the difficulty in data collection from a variety of sources.



18
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
i I.  Key operating indicators in the President's Report  Estimated           Actual
Not defmed at appraisal
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                        Purpose as defined at            Status                 Impact of Study
appraisal/ redefined                                                       I
Natural Resources Inventory  Inventory on national level   Not carried out
Study of Project Impact at    Assess progress made since   Completed            Used as input into
Mid-Term                  project start-up                                      evaluation of project impact
at time of MTR.
Policy Studies (3)        Not furiher defined        Not carried out                                     l
Study of River flow and
salination                                           Not carried out



19
Table 8: Project Costs
A. By Component
(US$ '000)
Item                            Appraisal Estimate       Actual/latest Estimate
Agricultural Sector Analysis and Planning
- Project Coordinating Unit and MOA                           0.4                       2.1
- Department of Planning                                      1.3                       1.4
Extension Services and Functional Literacy
Agricultural Extension and Communications                     3.5                       4.3
Livestock Extension                                           1.8                       1.5
Environment                                                   1.5                       0.2
Functional Literacy                                           0.5                       0.5
Agricultural Research and Education
Agricultural Research                                         3.7                       5.5
School of Agriculture - Gambia College                        0.5                       0.8
Promotion of self-reliance and Farmer Empowerment             1.5                      2 68
Base Costs                                                   14.9                      18.9
Physical Contingencies                                        1.0                 included above
Price Contingencies                                           1.3                 included above
Total Costs                                                  17.2                      18.9
Includes extension related activities.



20
B. By Expenditure Category
(USS '000)
Item                                 Appraisal Estimate  Actual/latest Estimate
Department of State for Agriculture
Civil Works                                1,306.6               818.3
Equipment                                   654.5               1,482.2
Vehicles                                    838.4                873.1
Technical Assistance                       1,503.3               338.8
Training                                   3,602.0              4,182.5
NRM Research Fund                           833.1                 0.0
Operating Expenses comprising:              576.6               1,638.2
O&M Vehicles
O&M Equipment and Buildings                40.7               1,017.3
Supplies                                  424.2               1,468.0
NRM Research Fund Operating Costs         166.1                 0.0
Personnel Salaries and Allowances        1,219.9              1,630.9
Sub-total                                 11,165.4             13,449.2
NARI
Civil Works                                 529.6                523.4
Equipment                                   554.4                493.0
Vehicles                                    303.4                502.7
Technical Assistance                        474.2                  0.0
Training                                    707.1                926.2
Operating Expenses comprising:              611.0                493.0
O&M Vehicles
O&M Equipment and Buildings               167.6                502.7
Supplies                                  140.8               1,820.2
Meetings and Allowances                     8.2                130.7
Publications                                8.2                  0.0
Personnel Salaries and Allowances         216.5                 81.2
Sub-total                                  3,721.1              5,473.1
Baseline Costs                            14,886.3             18,922.3
Physical Contingencies                     1,071.8          included above
Price Contingencies                        1,265.2          included above
Total Costs                               17,223.4             18,922.3



21
C. Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate     Actual/latest Estimate
Source                              (US$ million)             (US$ million)
IDA                                       12.3                  about 12.3
IFAD                                      3.6                   about 3.6
Government                                 1.3                  about 3.0
TOTAL                                     17.2                     18.9
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The SAR presented no financial or economic evaluation of project benefits. It did provide a
rudimentary cost-benefit analysis. Given the lack of data collected by the project on the on-farm
financial impact of the research and extension activities, it is impossible to estimated their
economic or financial impact. From the available data, it can be deduced that project benefits
were less than the low-case estimate presented in the SAR (i.e. net benefits were less than the
cost of the project).



22
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Legal Covenant Report
Original Revised
Fulfill
Class(s)               Status
Agreement: CREDIT
3.01 (a)            05      Complied with 01/04/1997 The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2
to this Agreement & shall carry out the project
thru the Min. of Ag. & the NARB with due
diligence and efficiency & shall provide promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
3.01 (b)            03      Complied with           The Borrower shall:(i) provide in its annual budget
amounts adequate to cover its counterpart con-
tributions to the costs of the Project;
3.01 (b)(ii)        03      Complied with           The Borrower shall:(ii) open & maintain in its
Central Bank an account (the Proj. Account) to be
used exclusively to meet expenditures under the
Project; & deposit into the Proj. Account:(A) an
initial amount of $50,000 & (B) the remaining
amt of its counterpart contributions, quarterly in
advance, according to a schedule of payments
agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association.
3.01 (c)(i)         05      Complied with          The Borrower shall continue to maintain the National
Agricultural Research Board (NARB) and
establish and maintain a National Agricultural
Research Institute (NARI), all in a form and with
fuinctions and staffing satisfactory to the
Association.



23
3.01 (c)(ii)          05       Complied with            The Borrower shall continue to maintain in a form
and with functions and staffing satisfactory to
the Association its Project Support Unit (PSU).
The Project Support Unit shall be responsible for
handling procurement matters under all Parts of
the Project (other than Part C (2) of the
Project)and for the administrative and monitoring
of Project activities.
3.01 (c)(iii)         05       Complied with            The Borrower shall cause NARB to:(A) establish
and maintain a Technical Secretariat (TS) within
NARB.TS shall be established and maintained in a
form &with functions & staffing satisfactory to
the Association; & (B)appoint & assign to TS a
Research Manager and a Finance Expert whose
Qualifications, experience and terms and
Conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association.
3.01 (d)             09       Complied with             The Borrower shall carry out by the beginning of
the third year of the Project and complete by the
end of the said year an adoption and diffusion
Extension study satisfactory to the Association.
3.01 (e)             09   After delay complied with 12/31/1996 09/30/1997 The Borrower shall:(i) no later than 12/31/96,
carry out jointly with IDA a mid-term review of
the Project to assess on the basis of the key
monitoring indicators:(A) the overall progress
made in carrying out the Project, incl. its bene-
fits and costs; (B)the performance of agencies &
entities participating in the Project; (C)ex-
tent to which instit. obj. have been achieved;
3.01 (e)(i - D) & (ii)  09       Complied with         12/31/1996 09/30/1997 The Borrower shall carry out jointly with IDA a
mid-term review to assess: (D) the results of the
adoption and diffusion extension study referred
to in paragraph (d) of this Section; & (ii)
promptly thereafter implement the recommendations
of the mid-term review to the satisfaction of the
Association.



24
3.01 (f)             09       Complied with             The Borrower shall transmit to the Association,
at least 90 days prior to the mid-term review
described in paragraph (e) above, a report, in
scope & detail satisfactory to the Association,
describing the status of Project implementation.
3.02                 3       Complied with              Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be fin-
anted out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
govemed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
4.01 (a)              I       Complied with             The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect
Of the Project of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower (including PSU and NARB/NARI)
Responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof.
4.01 (b)(i)            I      Complied with             The Borrower shall:(i) have the records &
accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section incl. those for the Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
The Association;
4,01 (b)(ii)           I      Complied with             The Borrower shall fumish to the Association, as
soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, a
Cert, copy of the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested.
4.01 (b)(iii)          I      Complied with             The Borrower shall fumish to the Association
such other information conceming said records and
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.



25
4.01 (c)(i)          I       Complied with           For all expenditure with respect to which with-
drawls from the Credit Account were made on the
basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower
shall:(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
Records and accounts reflecting such expend.
4.01 (c)(ii)         I   Complied with              The Borrower shall retain, until at least one
year after the Association has received the audit
for the fiscal year in which the last withdraw
from the Credit Account was made, all records
(con- tracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing such expend.;
(iii)enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records;
4.01(b)(iv)           I      Complied with           The Borrower shall ensure that such records are
included in the annual audit referred to in para.
(b) of this Section & that the report of such
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
As to whether the SOE submitted during ea. FY, to-
gether with the procedures & intemal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon
to support the related withdraws.
Covenant types:                                                                             Present status:
I = Accounts/audits                           8  =  Indigenous people
2= Financial performance/ revenue             9  =  Monitoring, review, and reporting           C   = covenant complied with
generation from beneficiaries
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds     10 =  Project implementation not covered by       CD =  complied with after delay
categories 1-9
4 = Counterpart funding                       11 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or     CP =  complied with partially
other resource allocation
5 = Management aspects of the project or      12 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/          NC =  not complied with
executing agency                                regulatory/ institutional action
6 = Environmental covenants                   13 =  Other
7 = Involuntary resettlement



26
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                   I Describe and comment on lack of compliance
All relevant manual statements were adhered to.
Table 12: IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                Revised                  Actual
Stage of project cycle   Weeks       US$ '000     Weeks  US$ '000        Weeks        US$ '000
Preparation up to
Appraisal                                                                   68.8          68.0
Appraisal                                                                   28.3          89.8
From Appraisal to Board                                                      9.2          28.6
Supervision                                                                 120.7        399.0
Completion                  8.5           24.5        9.5                   10.3          53.4
TOTAL                                                                       237.3        638.8



27
Table 13: IDA Resources: Missions9
Performance rating
Stage of project cycle        Month/      Number        Days in     Specialized staff skills  Implementation   Development   Types of
_____________________________________  year  of persons  field           represented            status         objectives    problems
Through appraisallI                 04/90       2            15            NA
l ___________________________       11/90       2             5            NA
04/92      6             12           NA
Board approval through effectiveness    NA     NA            NA            NA
Supervision 1                       02/94      3             11            AS, AS, IFAD           2                 1
Supervision 2                       04/94       1            7             AS                     NR                NR
Supervision 3                       11/94      2.            12            AS, AG                 U                 S.              Coup
d'etat
Supervision 4                       02/95      2             I             AS, AG                 U                 S
Supervision 5                       04/95       1            16            AS                     NR                NR
Supervision 6                       07/95      2             2             AG, AS                  S                S
Supervision 7                       08/95      2             NA            AS, AS                  S                S
Supervision 8                       01/96       1            14            AG                      S                S
Supervision 9                       04/96      2             12            AG, AS                  S                S
Supervision 10                      02/97      2             NA            AS, AS, Econ.          U                 S               CF
Supervision I / Mid-Term Review    09/97       8            15            Econ, AS (3), FA, Res,  S                S               M
TA, Soc.
Supervision 12                      03/28/98    1            NA            Sr. Econ.               S                S
Completion Mission                  03/99       2            12            AE, OA                  U                HU              M, P, ST,
Specialized skills: AE = Agricultural Economist; AG = Agriculturist; AS = Agricultural Services Specialist; AR = Agricultural Research Specialist; Econ = Economist; FA = Financial Analyst;
IFAD = IFAD representative; OA = Operations Analyst; Soc. = Sociologist; TA = Task Assistant; and TS = Training Specialist. Types of problems: CT = Counterpart Funding; Env =
Environmental Aspects; FM = Financial Management; M = Management; P = Procurement; ST = Studies Progress, T = Technical Progress
9       Project files are incomplete and do not have all documentation.
10      Preparation was also carried out as part of regular supervision of ADP II.



28
ANNEX I
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(CREDIT 2453-GM)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION - MARCH 8 TO 19, 1999
AIDE -MEMOIRE
1.    A World Bank mission comprising Rudolph A. Polson (Task Team Leader) and Dirk
Nicolaas Prevoo (Operations Analyst) carried out a final supervision of the Agricultural Services
Project (Cr.2453 -GM) from March 8 to 19, 1999 in preparation of the Implementation
Completion Report of the project. The mission was joined by the IFAD Country Portfolio
Manager, Mr. Mohamed Tounessi, who represented the interests of the co-financier in the ICR
process and participated in discussions related to future donor support to the rural sector. The
mission held discussions with Honorable Fasainey Dumbuya, Secretary of State, Department of
State for Agriculture (DOSA), Mr. Anthony Taylor, Permanent Secretary, and other officials of
DOSA, the Acting Coordinator of the ASP Project Unit, and officials and staff of the various
implementation agencies. . The list of key officials met by the mission is attached". The mission
also paid a courtesy call on the UNDP Resident Representative in the context of the future donor
assistance to the rural sector. A wrap-up meeting, held with DOSA on March 19, 1999, was
chaired by Mr. Anthony Taylor, Permanent Secretary. The mission extends its thanks and
appreciation to these officials for their kind courtesies and assistance.
2.    This Aide Memoire, subject to confirmation by IDA management, provides a synopsis of
the mission's key findings and conclusions, the agreements preparation of the project's
Implementation Completion Report (ICR). reached with government, and the follow-up actions
required under the ICR process. It provides an assessment of the project in the following areas:
(i) project objectives and achievements of these objectives; (ii) major factors affecting project
implementation; (iii) The Association and Borrower performance; (iv) sustainability of key
project achievements; (v) future operations of key project activities by the Government of the
Gambia (GOTG); and (vi) the key lessons learned from project implementation.
Overview of the ICR Process
3.    Background. The Agricultural Service Project (Cr. 2453-GM) was co-financed by the
World Bank, IFAD and GOTG. Its key objectives were to assist the efforts of the Government
of the Gambia (GOTG) to increase agricultural productivity and rural incomes through the
i Officials of DOSA and NARINARB met included Messrs. Mamadi Ceesay (Deputy Pennanent Secretary), Saidu
Jallow (DAS), Ebrima Kunjo (Principal Research Officer), Badara Loum (Assistant Director, DLS), Samuel Bruce-
Oliver (Director-General, NARI), Ebrima Camara (Acting Deputy Director, DOP), Sidi Jarju (DOSA), and Sheriff
Kolley (Asst Director, DAS). This list updated.



29
dissemination of improved crop and livestock technologies and the strengthening of related
agricultural research and extension services. The project also sought to enhance DOSA's
capacity for sector policy analysis and planning, and to rationalize the approach to agricultural
research through the establishment of an autonomous and sustainable national agricultural
research institute. Other objectives were the empowerment of farmer groups and the
strengthening of institutional linkages in the informal sector through testing of new approaches
of farmer participation and self-management, in partnership with NGOs.
4.    The IDA credit of SDR 8.8 million (US$12.3  million equivalent) was approved on
January 12, 1993, and was closed on March 1, 1999, almost four months ahead of its planned
closing date. The IFAD loan of SDR 2.5 million was also approved in 1993, and focused on
specific pilot activities in the Central River Division (CRD). A part of the IDA credit was also
provided to the National Agricultural Research Board to support the establishment of the NARI.
5..   Timing and Consultation with Borrower. Discussions on the ICR process, in particular,
the timing of the final completion mission and coordination of the Borrower's input began in
early 1998. By early 1999, with nearly all of the IDA credit proceeds disbursed, both the
Borrower and the Association agreed to an early closure of the ASP, dialogue was begun with
government on future IDA assistance in the rural sector. A letter was submitted by the
Borrower's Department of State for Agriculture on February 28, 1999 requesting closure of the
credit. The credit was officially closed on March 1, 1999 and the terms of reference for the final
completion mission was prepared and submitted to the Borrower for review and comments. The
Borrower was also advised of its responsibilities under the ICR process, and accordingly took
specific actions in support of the ICR process, including the nomination of a National
Counterpart Team to work with the IDA mission. The national counterpart team, which was
broadbased and included representatives of the implementing agencies, assisted the mission with
all data and other background documentation, and was available to provide clarifications of key
issues. The list of the national counterpart team is attached below.
6.    Data Sources for the ICR. The project's midterm review report (MTR), the background
documents prepared by the various implementing agencies, the reports of the independent
auditors, documents available in the project files, as well as field interviews of key technical staff
formed the basis for preparing the draft ICR. Specific subsector data were provide by the
technical departments (Crops, Livestock, Planning) and the National Agricultural Research
Institute (NARI). Data on specific project procurement activities were provided by the Project
Coordinating Unit. Given the limited time, the mission only visited the Livestock Services
Station at Abuko and the National Agricultural Research Institute at Yudum; however, additional
field visits were undertaken later during the year as part of the ICR process.
Summary of Mission's Findings and Conclusions
7.    Estimated Project Costs and Financing Plan. At appraisal, the total project cost was
estimated at US$17.2 million over five years, comprising an IDA credit of US$12.3 million, an
IFAD loan of US$3.6 million, and GOTG contribution of US$1.3 million.



30
8.    Actual Project Costs and Financing at Completion. Actual project costs are estimated at
Dalasi 189 million (US$18.9 million) at closing , compared to Dalasi 156.7 million (US$17.2
million equivalent) at appraisal. of which US$12.3 million equivalent was contributed by IDA
as planned, US$3.6 million equivalent by IFAD as planned, and US$3.0 million by Government
(US$1.3 million planned). The significant change in composition of project costs is mostly due
to increased spending on operating expenditures (400 percent for the DOSA components and 300
percent for the NARIINARB component) and training (16 percent on the DOSA related training
and 30 percent for NARI/NARN). The overrun in these categories was made up for by less than
estimated expenditures on consulting services and by cutting back substantially on field
activities. Of the total project costs at completion, IDA accounted for US$12.3 million, IFAD
contributed US$3.6 million, and GOTG contribution amounts totaling US$3.0 million (US$1.3
million estimated at appraisal). The GOTG's contribution was more than double the agreed
financing plans due to increased allocations to NARI/NARB, an increased spending on overseas
training, and reimbursements for ineligible operating costs. The latter totaled Dalasi 2.7 million
which had to be refunded to the Special Account.
9.    Disbursement Status at Completion. The IDA credit was fully disbursed at completion
and only a small portion of the IFAD loan remains undisbursed. However, there were significant
imbalances in disbursement categories compared to the amount programmed at appraisal. The
actual final disbursement by key components were estimated as follows: (i) Project Coordinating
Unit/DOSA (US$2.1 million, compared to US$0.4 at appraisal); (ii) Extension Services,
including functional literacy (US$6.5 million, compared to US$7.3 million at appraisal); (iii)
Research, including NARIINARB and the Gambia College (US$6.3 million, compared to
US$4.2 million at appraisal); and (iv) Farmers empowerment, US$ 2.6 million. The latter
contains funding possibly disbursed from extension services, and this amount will be verified.
10.   Total disbursement by key expenditure categories were also as follows: (i) Civil Works,
US$1.34 million, compared to US$1.84 million at appraisal); (ii) Equipment, US$1.98 million,
compared to US$1.2 million at appraisal); vehicles (US$1.38 million, compared to US$1.14
million); Technical assistance (US$0.34 million, compared to US$1.98 million at appraisal) and
Training (US$5.1 million, compared to US$4.3 million at appraisal). The final disbursement
figures will be confirmed with the World Bank Disbursement Department. The disbursement
patterns revealed substantial deviation from planned activities which had important implications
for the achievement of project specific objectives as noted below.
Project Objectives and Specific Covenants
11.   Project Objectives and Components. The main objectives of the project were to: (i)
generate increased agricultural productivity and sustained growth of the incomes of small
farming families, through the strengthening of support services in agricultural extension, research
and training, and; (ii) promote self-reliance and farmer empowerment. The main project
components focused on: (i) strengthening natural resources/agricultural sector analysis and
planning within the Department of State for Agriculture; (ii) consolidating, improving and



31
strengthening agricultural extension services covering crop and livestock production and natural
resources management, and expansion of functional literacy programs; (iii) improving and
strengthening the Gambian agricultural research system, with modest support to the Agricultural
School of the Gambia College; and (iv) promoting self-reliance/farmer empowerment through
pilot activities in the Central River Division as a pilot to test new approaches in farmer
participation and self-management in the areas of irrigation water management, rural savings
and loans, training of rural entrepreneurs, and rural infrastructure.
12.   Specific Covenants to Achieve Project Objectives. Specific covenants contained in the
Development Credit Agreement related to counterpart fund availability, the creation of NARI
and the setting up of a technical secretariat, adequate support to the PSU, a mid-term review, and
undertaking of an technology adoption and diffusion study were all met.
Overall Achievement of Project Objectives
13.   On the whole,  the project did not achieve its main objective of generating and
disseminating improved technologies needed to increase the productivity of resource poor
farmers and its overall sustainability appears unlikely in the absence of external donor funds.
While extension services (livestock and crops) were initially strengthened, the reallocation of
resources from this component to overseas training and other non-extension related expenditures
led to a drastic curtailment of extension services at the farm-level, especially during the latter
stages of project implementation. Many extension-related infrastructure, such as the District
Extension Centers (DECs) and Veterinary Health Posts, for which funds were allocated and
which were essential for re-invigorating service delivery at the farm-level, were not built and
instead the resources were reallocated to other activities at the national or divisional level. While
the project substantially achieved its objective of establishing a National Agriculture Research
Institute (NARI) with an oversight body, a key research fund that would have provided an
important and independent source of funding outside the public sector was never established and
key staff were never transferred from other line departments other than crops. The capacity
building activities aimed at strengthening sectoral analysis and planning within the Department
of Planning were only partially implemented and an important capacity building linkage to an
external institution was never initiated. The pilot activities in the Central River Division were
largely successful in strengthening the linkages between extension, grassroots farmers activities
and rural credit, but its geographic scope is limited and resources for its replications to other
regions are not available at present.
14.   Details of individual components are given below:
(a)   Capacity for Sectoral and Policy Analysis. A key project objective was to strengthen the
capacity of the Department of Planning (DOP) of the Department of State for Agriculture
(DOSA) for sector policy analysis, rural strategy formulation, and monitoring and
evaluation of key project activities, including conduct of the National Agricultural
Sample Survey (NASS). A key capacity building objective involved a proposed linkage
between DOSA and an external institution that would have assisted the DOP in



32
strengthening its analytical capacity. DOP was also required to carry out a number of
policy studies relevant to setting sector priorities and informing policymaking. Other than
the statutory national agricultural surveys, none of these key policy studies were
implemented. In addition, the proposed linkage with an external agency did not take
place, as well. While a number of DOP staff participated in overseas training, transfer
from this department to the main DOSA management may have hampered the operations
of the DOP for effective policy planning and sector analysis.
(b)   Agricultural Extension (Crops and Livestock).  Overall, achievement under the
extension component comprising both livestock and agricultural services, was
unsatisfactory. There remained institutional rigidities which continue to constrain the
attainment of effective polyvalence of extension services at the farm-level. Extension
services between livestock and crops are still largely separated through two line
departments, and are often poorly coordinated at the field level. This duplication is costly
as DOSA must support both a village extension worker for crops and a livestock assistant
for livestock, in addition to providing separate logistics. Key extension related
infrastructure, notably the District Extension Centers (DECs) and Veterinary Health Posts
were never rehabilitated. Only two DECs were actually rehabilitated out of a total of 32
DECs. There were difficulties in providing effective support to extension frontline staff,
and during the latter stages of the project, provision of critical inputs such as fuel for
motorbikes and vehicles, were drastically curtailed (in the case of fuel rations for village
extension workers, the reduction was nearly 75% of the monthly quota of 20 liters). The
recent technology adoption and diffusion study undertaken by the Department of
Planning, while contested by the line departments, show less than average awareness of
key technologies and low level of participation of farmers in many field activities. In
many instances, these technologies precede the project. The full utilization of project
resources have further made it impossible to maintain extension visits and training
programs (FNTs, MTRMs) at optimal levels given the unavailability of Government of
Gambia funds.
(c)   Agricultural Research (NARBINARI).  Achievement under this component was
satisfactory. The project was able to establish a National Agricultural Research Institute
(NARI) with an independent Board of Directors which has laid a strong foundation of
agricultural research in the Gambia.  However, there are key elements of the
NARB/NARI set-up which will continue to pose constraints to the institute's transition to
a modem research entity and these will need to be addressed. The first is the imbalance
in skills mix of NARI. NARI was created out of the former Department of Agricultural
Research, which comprised mainly of staff working on crops. Given the expanded
mandate of NARI, inability to transfer other line positions from Livestock, Forestry and
Fisheries has resulted in a bias in the research skills mix in favor of crops, and other
programs remain understaffed. Second, enactment of the act establishing NARI and
NARB prior to the preparation of detailed conditions of service of staff created a
disincentive for other line staff to transfer to the new institute. While an interagency task
force met to discuss and agree on the skills mapping from other line departments to
NARI, none of these recommendations were implemented. Third, NARB with a fulltime



33
technical Secretariat comprising a Research Planner and Financial Comptroller to simply
service the Board has important financial implications for the nascent institution as these
positions are not financed with GOTG funds. Fourth, the inability to establish the Gambia
Agricultural Research Fund has affected the attainment of financial sustainability of the
NARI. To its credit, however, NARI management is gradually expanding its external
linkages to regional and international agricultural research institutes and these have
become important sources for funding through joint work programs. At present, these
external funding sources contribute nearly 8 percent of NARI operating budget.
(d)   Capacity Building and Empowerment of Farmers.  Overall, achievement of the
objectives of this component was satisfactory. These pilot activities in the Central River
Division, focused on: (i) support for non-formal education (functional literacy and
numeracy programs), formation of user groups in lowland irrigated rice areas, a village
entrepreneur program to encourage the establishment of small businesses at the
community-level, and support to the development of rural financial services. These
activities were linked to the extension services at the village level. Overall, the pilot
program has been successful and many of its aspects are being replicated in the recently
approved IFAD Rural Financial and Community Initiative Project. Many of the
institutional support programs will continue to be supported and the pilot will be
expanded into other areas, as well.
Key Factors Affecting Project Performance
15.   The major factors affecting the project were: (i) lack of coordination between key project
implementing entities which resulted in duplication of efforts; (ii) poor supervision of project
activities by the Cooperating Institution; and (iii) inability of the Borrower to properly monitor
project implementation. All of these factors were within the control of both the Borrower and the
Cooperating Institution.
(a)   Poor Coordination. The project, as designed, had two separate Special Accounts, one for
NARI/NARB and the other for DOSA. However, where activities overlapped, such as in
training, little effort was made to coordinate them. Consequently, students from the same sector
attending the same institutions abroad had different benefit packages. Also, and in light of the
training program, it was difficult to coordinate the transfer of staff from other line departments to
NARI. There were also problems of coordinating livestock and crops extension activities at the
field level. Although DOSA was committed to a philosophy of polyvalence, it was essentially
difficult to achieve this in a cost-effective manner with separate line departments for livestock
and crops. There were also fundamental coordination problems between DOP and the line
departments, as evidence by the disagreement regarding the conduct and results of the adoption
and diffusion study.
(b)   Poor Supervision. In many instances, supervision focused mainly on extension and
research, and very little attention was given to the financial management or institution building
aspects of the project. Consequently, there were substantial overexpenditures for operating costs,



34
equipment, and vehicles, and training. In the absence of an implementation manual for the ASP,
no annual work programs and budgets (AWPBs) were developed jointly by the Association and
Borrower's implementing agencies (except for the first year) as a guide for program
implementation and monitoring. The supervision skills mix showed biases for extension and
research expertise. Very little guidance was provided on the process and procedures for
establishing a Research Fund for NARI, and the fund was never established. There was no
explicit attempts to incorporate the recommendations of the audit reports into the supervision
program (these related to financial aspects of the project, as well) The audit report had as far back
as 1996 flagged potential over-commitment to training. In addition, training programs were
poorly supervised by the Cooperating Institution, leading to substantial cost overruns. Of the 23
staff programmed for overseas training defined at appraisal, nearly a 100 staff had participated in
some form of external training by the close of the project. All of these training requests received
the no objection of the Cooperating Institution, and when funds were exhausted, the Cooperating
Institution further approved reallocation from other categories in support of these training
activities. Efforts were made during the mid-term review to address the imbalances in project
component expenditures and to re-focus activities to core programs of extension, but resources
were no longer available.
(c )   Inability of the Borrower to Properly Monitor Implementation. The Borrower was
unable to properly monitor project implementation, both from its Department of Planning, as
well as from within the Project Management Unit. This situation was exacerbated by the weak
supervision oversight of the Cooperating Institution. The Borrower's coordinating unit allowed
major expenditures beyond those allotted for specific categories and activities. It improperly
allowed ineligible disbursements in operating costs, which had to be repaid to IDA. In addition,
it failed to properly monitor the training program, allowing huge overcommitments.
16.   The Association Performance. On the whole, The Association performance, from
identification through completion, was unsatisfactory. The Association failed to properly
monitor key aspects of project implementation and approved overcommitments to overseas
training and operating expenses of the project. Skills mix for project supervision was biased
towards extension and research, and even though the project was creating new institutions with
key program and financial management functions and responsibilities in tandem with a complex
training program, these skills did not feature prominently in supervision resources. Task
management of the project changed four times in five years and this affected the level of
continuity in project monitoring. The Association could have done more during the appraisal
stage to properly identify the true dimension of the human resource constraints which later
became the driving force of implementation and to properly incorporate these issues in project
design. The Association could have also provided better guidance to the Borrower on the
establishment of the Research Fund, and assisted in the annual work program and budget
exercises to better guide project implementation.
17.   Borrower Performance. On the whole, Borrower's performance was also unsatisfactory.
The Borrower failed to properly monitor project implementation, and was directly responsible
for many of the overcommitments which took place. The Borrower's Department of Planning
did not establish appropriate capacity to monitor project implementation, and very little



35
coordination took place with the other line departments in this exercise. In addition, the
Borrower could have done more to ascertain that staff were transfer from the Livestock, Fisheries
and other departments to complement staff of the newly established NARI.
18.   Assessment of Project Outcomes. Based on the implementation performance, and
prospects for sustainability of key project benefits, overall outcome of the project is less than
satisfactory. The project did not accomplished its key objectives of generating increased
agricultural productivity and sustained growth of the incomes of small farmers through the
strengthening of agricultural support services. These services continue to suffer from serious
operational problems and logistics at the closure of the project and GOTG's ability to continue to
provide these services optimally and in the absence of external assistance is not readily apparent.
The most significant outcome of the project is the establishment of NARI, and this has helped to
lay a strong foundation for sustainability. The pilot activities in the Central River Division have
been relatively satisfactory and these are being replicated in other parts of the country.
Sustainability, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
19.   Project Sustainability. Given current and past performance, sustainability of key project
benefits appears highly unlikely. The ability to attain and maintain a polyvalent extension system
in the light of institutional rigidities between the Livestock and Agricultural Services
Departments and dwindling Government of Gambia financial support appears highly unlikely.
To a large extent, NARI has key features which can be sustained. These include the expanded
linkages to external sources of funds through technical collaborations with the IARCS,
investment in facilities, and the articulation of a strategic vision, including a medium and long-
term program of research are key factors of its likely sustainability. The farmer empowerment
program was a pilot and its sustainability will be determined in the context of the follow IFAD
programn.
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
20.   Future Operations.  Borrower is committed to the development of a strong rural
development sector in support of economic growth and poverty alleviation. The success of this
strategy depends, to a large extent, on the ability to increase the productivity of farmers by the
infusion of low cost and appropriate technologies, the restructuring of sector institutions to
provide timely and cost-effective services, and development of the sector's human resource base.
In this context, the government has expressed its strong commitment to the future operations of
the project and will provide details of its programs at a later as a part of the ICR process.
21.   Key Lessons: The key lessons for future projects in the rural development sector in the
Gamnbia are not knew; instead, they demonstrate what can go wrong when the project team fails
to take these basic operational procedures and common-sense guidelines into account. The key
ones are noted below: (i) Close coordination. Close coordination between project entities is
essential for proper implementation and this aspect should be a focus of supervision mission; (ii)
Adequate supervision and skills mix. Proper monitoring of project implementation performance



36
is crucial to success. This requires both adequacy of supervision inputs and the appropriate skills
mix to focus on key aspects of the implementation; (ii) Holistic Institutional building. It is
essential to focus not only on the formation of institutions but the critical follow-up activities
which are key to their sustainability; (iv) Integration of audit findings in supervision. It is
essential to incorporate the findings of audit reports into the supervision of projects both as an
early warning system and as a monitoring tool; (v). Clear need for AWPBs. As demonstrated by
the ASP, proper annual preparation of annual work programs is essential as a guide to project
implementation, and this is even more critical where there are no implementation manuals to
guide program implementation.
Next Steps: Priority Actions
22.   The immediate next steps, based on the lessons learned from the project, are to: continue
the momentum of the institutional strengthening efforts in the rural sector. However, it is
important to articulate a clear vision for the rural sector, and the priority programs of assistance.
Both IDA and IFAD have initiated strong dialogue with DOSA on the future scope of donor
assistance. It is critical that the limited gains of the ASP be consolidated by not allowing a wide
time gap in program funding. It is therefore expected that both IDA and IFAD will begin
preparation of a Rural Sector Support Program, which will take into consideration the lessons of
the ASP implementation, and provide a more longer term support to the rural sector in the
Gambia. A separate aide memoire will be issued on the scope of future collaboration in the rural
sector.



37
ANNEX II
COMMENTS FROM BORROWER
NO COMMENTS RECEIVED FROM THE BORROWER



38
ANNEX III: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A     STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
(a)   Project Objectives
The Agricultural Services Project's (ASP) main objectives were:
i)   to generate increased agricultural productivity and sustained growth of the
incomes of small farming families, through the strengthening of support
services in agricultural extension, research and training; and
ii)   to promote self-reliance and farmer empowerment.
(b)   Project Components
ASP focused on four main components as follows:
i)    strengthening natural resources/agricultural sector analysis and planning;
ii)   consolidating, improving and strengthening the Gambian agricultural
extension services covering crop and livestock production and natural
resources management, and expansion of functional literacy programs;
iii)  improving and strengthening the Gambian agricultural research system
and modest support to the Agricultural School of the Gambia College; and
iv)   promoting self-reliance/farmer empowerment through pilot activities in
one administrative Division (MacCarthy Island Division-MID) that would
test new approaches in farmer participation and self-management in the
areas of: irrigation water management, rural savings and loans, training of
rural entrepreneurs, and rural social infrastructure.
(c)   Evaluation of Project Objectives and Design
The main objectives of the Agricultural Services Project are clear, realistic,
relevant and consistent with the Government of The Gambia and World Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy for agricultural development through encouraging
increased efficiency and diversification in the production of cash and food crops.
The Project objectives, however, were over ambitiously set with regards to the
implementation time frame vi-s-avis the level of funding. The multi-sectoral
dimension of the project design forms the basis for its complexity.



39
The design was deficient in several aspects:
(i)    The SAR of IDA was deficient in spelling out the project implementation
modalities for several sub-components of the project. For example, the modalities
for the establishment of GARF were not articulated.
(ii)   Training requirements had not been adequately assessed in terms of quantity,
discipline and cost.
(iii)   Agricultural research and training plans had not been established from the onset
of the project.
(iv)   Except for the Financial Accounting System, no preparatory Studies or/
Consultancies were  conducted  or recommended to  setup  procurement,
administrative and programme implementation manuals and MIS.
(v)   Mechanism for intemal monitoring system at the level of PSU was absent and the
provision for external monitoring was inadequate in terms of its coverage and
frequency.
(vi)  The institutional arrangement establishing the National Agricultural Research
Institute (NARI) weakened the potency of that very institution by giving its Board
(the National Agricultural Research Board (NARB), planning, control and
spending functions/authority. The Technical Secretariat (TS) under NARB would
have been better located under NARI. The NARB should only hold a control
function. NARI should be responsible for its accounts once the programme
budget has been blessed/approved by NARB whose Chairman would have been a
co-signatory to the NARI accounts.
B.   ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
The primary objectives of the ASP is stipulated in section A of this report. These
objectives were mainly geared towards augmenting farmers' food security level through
increased production and productivity of crops and livestock and also ensure a significant
increase in farmers' real incomes. The project objectives were consistent with the
National Policy Objective of increased food self-sufficiency as enshrined in the National
Mission Statement 'The Gambia Incorporated ........ Vision 2020' and the Medium-Term
Agricultural Policy Objectives and Strategies document.
The ASP's support services to DAS, DLS and NARI (1992-1998) was aimed at
consolidating and enhancing the functional operations of these institutions in order to
better generate and disseminate improved technologies with a view to increasing the
production and productivity of resource poor farmers in ensuring increased food security.
The project's support services to these institutions substantially increased their human
resource capacities. This is evidenced by the number of staff (of various cadres) who
received professional training from the project. Table 31D(ii) presents the number of staff
(of the various implementing institutions) who benefited from different levels of training



40
ranging from Certificate/Diploma to MSc level. These trainings took place at local,
regional and overseas institutions. Overall, 23 staff members of the implementing
institutions were expected to be trained in various disciplines of agriculture but at the end
of the project, 115 staff actually received formal training, a five fold increase. In fact,
certificate or diploma level trainings were not initially budgeted for but at project
completion 58 staff were trained either at certificate or diploma level. Of the total
number of staff trained, 16 and 41 staff were trained at B.Sc. and M.Sc. level
respectively. Therefore, ASP was successful in significantly strengthening implementing
institutions through human resources capacity building and improving other support
services.
However, the increase in production and productivity of crops and livestock to ensure
increased food security level of rural households has been mixed; unsatisfactory in the
crop sub-sector and encouraging in the livestock sub-sector. However, a significant
increase had been made in the cultivation and the production of horticultural crops.. In
the crop sub-sector, this is manifested by the lack of significanIt increases in food and
cash crops (mainly cereals - early -millet, late millet, maize, sorghum and paddy rice)
output. The sub-sector suffered either from reduction or stagnation of crop yields during
project implementation. On the average, cereal yields stagnated around 1,000 kg/ha (one
tonne per hectare) (See Table 3C: Area, Yield, and Production of Field Crops From
Project Start to Completion and Table 3C Annex: Area Put under Cultivation of
Horticultural Crops) in the face of average annual rainfall fluctuating around 800 mm (
See Table 5) and at times poorly distributed. In fact in 1997/98 season cereal yields
averaged less than 1,000 kg/ha deviating from the desired project objectives. In as much
as ASP injected lot of funds to strengthen these institutions, crop production and
productivity cannot be single-handedly determined by these services support alone.
Several other key factors (exogenous and endogenous) determine production and
productivity increases. Cash crop production showed similar production and productivity
trend with groundnut production being seriously reduced during the latter part of project
implementation.
With stagnating or declining crop yields which resulted in production reduction, small
farm families' sustained growth in real income terms could not be achieved during the
project implementation period. Rather, rural income studies done by other institutions
(mainly Central Statistics Department - SDA) indicated that farmers' real incomes
particularly from crops have been declining.
ASP's support services to farmer empowerment institutions in order to ensure and
enhance capacity building and invaluable support to community-based organisations
(CBOs), producer associations and various other groups have been a worthwhile venture
which yielded positive results. The strengthening of Village Savings and Credit
Associations (VISACAs) at least in the Central River Division (CRD) has been
phenomenally successful as it provided a conducive environment for farmers to mobilise
local resources and manage their savings and credit to boost agricultural production and
productivity in various sub-sectors (crops, livestock, entrepreneurship, etc). Table 3E



I.tI
shows the key indicators for farmer empowerment. Farmer empowerment was modelled
on non-formal education, formation of Water User Associations, introduction of animal
traction in irrigated rice, training of village entrepreneurs, promotion of new VISACAs
and community-based self-reliance. At project start, there were. 9 VISACAs and that
number reached 43 by project completion in 1998 nearly a five fold increase. During the
project, total memnbership of VISACAs has increased from 1,304 in 1993 to 105,378
members by December 1998 with a cumulative deposit of D17, 309, 299.78. Until
December 1998, the VISACAs provided loans to 5, 861 members with a curnulative loan
disbursement of D19, 940,399 (See Table 3E).  For the components of farmer
empowerment, all actual programme activities implemented well surpassed their
estimated targets which may be attributed to the successful implementation of the farmer
empowerment programme.
The Non-Formal Education component of the project has also registered impact in
providing access to basic literacy and numeracy to farmers. (See table on numbers
trained). Functional literacy materials on crop production themes has also been produced
in collaboration with DAS.
In the livestock sub-sector. livestock quality management has been significantly
improved through ASP's support services to strengthen livestock producer associations
such as Livestock Owners Associations, various Women Groups and the Gambia Sheep
and Goat Breeding and Fattening Association during the project period.  Incomes
obtained from the sale of livestock (fattened) and their products may be higher and
regular than those from crops. Therefore, livestock farmers may have an assured income
avenue than non-livestock farmers although one should be mindful of the fact that crop
farmers do also own livestock. The adoption of Small ruminant fattening techniques,
practised country-wide, are increasingly gaining momentum. The success of the National
"Tobaski" Sheep Fattening Programme could also be partly attributed to the extensive
support received from the project.
The Water Users Groups of the Jahally Pacharr Smallholder Project (JPSP) have been
adequately strengthened through training (See Table 3E) and the "beneficiary
participatory" strategy to an extent that they are currently fully and collectively
responsible for the use and management of resources (including distribution and
management of production inputs, maintenance and repair of structures, land allocation,
etc ) in the project area.
Similarly, producer associations in the crop sector have been strengthened through
training and other support thus enhancing better managerial capacities and production
efficiency. In the horticultural sub-sector, extension has provided both technical and
managerial training to producer schemes. This has also improved the planning and
implementation of scheme activities, the impact of which is now reflected through
increased production and cost-effectiveness. Recently, there has been a deliberate focus
on the use of groups ("Kaffos") through training and other support. These groups have
improved their managerial ability of group activities and production.



42
The Training of Village Entrepreneurs sub-component was meant to equip village
agricultural input dealers with managerial and entrepreneurial skills to support the
production base by enhancing local level agricultural input supply and marketing. The
implementation of the sub-component activities advanced by a tripartite agreement was
expected to be in collaboration with Non-formal Education Services, Agricultural Input
Office and Action Aid The Gambia. The collaborative efforts were frustrated by several
constraints including poor co-ordination among parties and non-participation of Non-
formal Education Services.
The preparatory phase of the project took longer than envisaged. Development of
training manuals and modules were later finalised with some consultants. A total of 340
potential village entrepreneurs (in addition to the 15 existing input dealers) were
identified (in 615 villages" for the project component in CRD.
Two Training-of-Trainers (TOT) sessions involving 30 extension agents of DAS were
held followed by one training session involving 15 existing Agricultural Input Dealers in
CRD (10 men and 5 women).
Three training sessions involving 60 village entrepreneurs (21 women and 39 men) were
also conducted.
Fifteen (15) agricultural input dealers continued with village level agricultural input
supply but are yet to take on board marketing of agricultural products. These village
entrepreneurs were able to access the majority of small farmers with seeds and fertiliser.
Thirty-six village entrepreneurs (23 women and 13 men) were capitalised by AATG and
engaged on marketing of agricultural products. Women are mainly engaged in smoked
fish marketing and the men were engaged in the marketing of cereal crops at the weekly
village markets(Lumos). However, 7 of these village entrepreneurs have failed and are
out of business.
C.   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
(a)   Factors Not Generally Subject To Government Control
The change of Government in 1994 resulted in the Bank's unilateral
suspension of disbursement of project funds causing delays in project
implementation across project components.
The escalated cost of inputs particularly fertiliser and machinery limited
the rate of technology application by farmers. The cost of fertilizer rose
from an average of D120.00/50 kg bag in 1993 to D170.00/50 kg bag in
1998.



43
The rainfall pattern contihues to be erratic at times and unpredictable for
all seasons with success determined by both its quantity and distribution.
Table 5 gives an indication of such variations during the implementation
period of the project.
(b)   Factors Generally Subject To Government Control
High turnover rate of project and sub-component managers was a
constraint that affected implementation. From its inception to its
completion, ASP has fallen a victim of high turnover rate of its component
Managers.
At the level of the Department of State for Agriculture (DOSA),the apex
of the implementing institution, Permanent Secretary position changed
several during implementation. The PSU of ASP went through three co-
ordinators during implementation. Within the samr period, the leadership
of the Department of Agricultural Research(DAR)/National Agricultural
Research Institute (NARI) registered three changes while the Department
of Agricultural Services registered two changes at the same level.
Leadership changes at the divisional offices of both DAS and DLS were
also eminent. Changes also occurred at the level of prograrmmes. Animal
Traction Research under NARI was one of the programmes thathad an
excellent take-off but later decelerated due to frequent staff changes.
Since individuals defer in their leadership styles, perceptions of changes in
directions were bound to happen under the concepts and understanding of
issues, conflicts of opinions and circumstances portrayed above.
(c)   Factors Generally Subject To The Control Of Project Support
Unit/Department Of State For Agriculture.
Delays in the approval of proposals at the PSU level created
implementation delays in some components of the Project. Non-formal
Education Component's failure in adhering to the training dates negotiated
with the participants exemplifies this shortcoming of the PSU.
By the end of the project, mobility for the frontline extension staff was a
constraint. Fuel and spare parts for the motorcycles were usually
inadequate in meeting the demands of the time and resource consuming
T&V extension system.
The allowance structure recommended for motorcycle owners as
contained in the ASP Administrative and Financial guideline report was
never implemented. Consequently, motorcycle costs had not been
recovered and hence the scheme could not be sustained.



44
The co-ordination of'component and sub-component activities had been
absent. Monitoring of project activities intemally and extemally had been
grossly inadequate and absent for most components and sub-components.
D     PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
At design stage, (please refer to SAR, Chapter V, C. 5.04,pg 33-34) it was expected that
the project's sustainability will be assured (among other things) through the
implementation of key project components such as the elaboration and implementation of
a strong human resource development programme, the organisation of farmers into strong
cohesive groups/ producer associations to enhance capacities to deal with credit issues,
input supplies and the marketing of farm produce. It was ilso recognised at this stage
that a follow-up project that would be the third five-year time slice of the long-term
national prograrmne would be instrunental in ensuring sustainability and the
maintenance of the momentum gained under the project.
Experience in agricultural sector project implementation in the Gambia (e.g. RDP, ADP
I1, GARD Project etc.' has amply demonstrated that, the human resource and
infrastructure development. components of such projects necessarily have to be given the
requisite support to ensure sustainability. Such an approach in ASP's implementation was
prudent in the context of realities on the ground at the onset of the project. In a situation
where the key implementing agencies (DLS &DAS) lacked adequately trained personnel
at all levels (managerial, middle level and front line* extension staff) and basic
infrastructure (such as divisional offices and staff accommodation) were mostly in a
deplorable state, targeting such key areas for improvement was cost-effective and it will,
in the long-term, greatly enhance sustainability.
In the livestock sub-sector, the ASP has been in the forefront for providing technical
support through training (and others) to producer associations such as Livestock Owners
Associations, various Women's Groups and the Gambia Sheep and Goat Breeding and
Fattening Association (GSGBFA) (See Table 3B on Extension and Training Activities
Conducted by DLS & DAS). The project was instrumental in staging the National
Consultative Forum for the reorganisation and revitalisation of the GSGBFA. The
overwhelming success of t:ne National Tobaski Sheep Fattening Programme could also be
partly attributed to the extension support received through ASP's outreach activities. The
project has also provided direct support for the staging of various livestock shows.
Recent pronouncements by the Department of State for Agriculture has re-echoed the
Government's strong commitment to farmer empowerment, particularly at the level of
producer associations. To consolidate the gains of the Agricultural Services Project in the



45
Jahally Pacharr area, the Department of State for Agriculture will provide financial,
technical and moral support to existing farmer associations ( Rice Growers Association,
Maize Growers Association, Sesame Growers Association, Farmer's Platform etc.) and
facilitate the fornation of many other farmer groups. Seed money has now been provided
to the Water Users Association and funds are being consolidated for capital building.
Significant positive changes have occurred in the capacity of farmers to manage their
resources and affairs. However, despite the fore-going these groups still need to be
further strengthen to enhance sustainability and cost-effectiveness.
However, the sustainability of these associations still remains the priority of the VISACA
Promotion Centre. Technical and managerial capacity continue to receive attention and
focus in order to enhance increased outreach and encourage more intemal mobilisation of
funds. The IFAD funded follow-up project (Rural Finance and Community Initiative
Project) seeks to replicate and amplify the outstanding gains of this
component at the national level.
In order to further ensure project sustainability, it was expected that DOSA's ability to
plan and co-ordinate agricultural extension at the national level would be greatly
enhanced by the project. Unfortunately, this has not been the case since as yet, a clear-cut
national policy on agricultural extension is yet to be formulated. The high rate of staff
attrition continues to be a major constraint and a cause for concern.  Despite the
foregoing, there have been some improvements in DOSA's capacity to formulate
policies, screen investments and monitor the performance of public sector services.
However, it is expected that a follow-up project will takeup this challenge and further
strengthen DOSA's capacity in the mentioned areas.
Regarding research sustainability, NARI has in place a mechanism through which
regional as well as sub-regional collaboration of activities could be maintained in a
sustainable manner. This process is characterised by the involvement of selected NARI
researchers in various regional research task forces, a membership that allows them to
submit adaptive research proposals for funding through supporting international research
centres. In addition, research based support service Units such as the Agricultural
Produce Laboratory, the Horticulture Program and the Agricultural Engineering Unit,
obtain proceeds from their respective services. Such proceeds are then ploughed back
into research activities.
The GARF was not established probably due to the ambiguity of the SAR (on the
subject) as it lacked specificity regarding the mechanism of its establishment and
operation. Notwithstanding the foregoing it is an accepted error and in any follow-up
project, it should be accorded priority.
Efforts need to be further concentrated in ensuring that recommendations/provisions of
both the Long Term (LT) and more urgently the Medium Term (MT) Research plans are
finalised and initiated.



46
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE
(i)   The Bank's Disbursement Division had demonstrated its efficiency in the
submission of statements and aptness of response to the requests of PSU.
(ii)   The Bank's Supervision of the project was quite adequate in terms of number or
frequency but narrowly focused. Crop and Livestock Extension and Research
received much more attention than the other aspects of the project.
(iii) Frequent changes/emphasis introduced by Bank's Task Managers through Aid
memoirs were hardly formalised while issues raised were rarely addressed by the
Bank.
(iv)   The Bank's failure to monitor the training plan and expenditure pattem
contributed to the escalation of training costs beyond the training budget
allocation. All training nominations received clearanie from the Bank before
implementation. Tables 3D(i) and 3D(ii) indicate the degree of departure from
the appraisal training estimates.
F.  BORROWERS PERFORMANCE
The Agricultural Services Project at the design stage had as its objective to generate
increased agricultural productivity and sustained growth of the incomes of small farming
communities, through the strengthening of support services in agricultural extension and
research training and the promotion of farmer self reliance and empowerment.
With this intention, the Government of The Gambia approached the FAO investment
centre in Rome for assistance in the preparation of the Agricultural Services Project. At
the preparatory stage, all implementing agencies were consulted and they participated
fully in both the design and the preparation of the project. All the major aspects such as
technical, financial, economic, commercial, institutional, environrmental and sociological
factors were thoroughly discussed with the mission from the FAO investment centre. The
Govermnent after receiving the report from the FAO approached both IFAD and IDA,
which later provided funding.
In the implementation of a project such as the Agricultural Services Project, with so
many sub-project components, it is evident that there is bound to be successes and
failures. This is due mainly to inaccurate assumptions and forecasts at the preparatory
and design stage of the project. This is why, it is important for both borrower and
cooperating institution to be revisiting the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) so often
especially with visiting supervision missions, to ensure that the project is moving in the
right direction as perceived. If circumstances call for an amendment which differs from
the original project design, this could be addressed immediately to avoid the incidence of



47
cost overruns and other related issues which might jeopardize the smooth and successful
implementation of the project.
During implementation, the project's performance has been mixed. Human resource
development and farmer empowerment were highly successful while farmers'
understanding and application of production technology particularly in area of crop
production are less satisfactory.
The turnover of Task Manager with different supervision styles and project concepts are
high in the case of the Agricultural Services Project during its implementation. This
introduces managernent conflicts as a result there were changes in direction and different
interpretation of objectives. Project implementation was not also frequently monitored
which results to many of the over commitments which took place. The DOP did not
establish appropriate capacity to monitor project activities. Co-ordination between line
departments during implementation was lately brought into focus and therefore only
minimal.
Notwithstanding, the project has made success in areas such as farmer empowerment
through capacity building in support of community based Organisations Producer
Associations and the VISACAs. The Nonformal component also registered impact by
providing access to basic functional and numeracy skills to farmers. The Water User
Groups, producer associations in the crop sector have also been strengthened. The
Livestock subsector has registered tremendous support through training to producer
association such as the Livestock Owners Association.
G.    ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
In general the performance of this project can be considered satisfactory in the context of
achieving its main objectives. For instances, significant improvements with regards to
livestock extension have been registered. This component specifically introduced to the
target beneficiaries technologies that are relevant to the improvement of animal
husbandry practices for sheep and poultry. From the crop extension front, achievements
were correspondingly registered in the adoption of selected improved technologies. This
process was accelerated through the modest research-extension linkage mechanisms. (See
Table 3A: Extension Inputs and Outputs and Table 4: Rearch Outputsu -
Development of New Technologies)
During the mid-term Review of the project it was alluded to that farmer involvement in
the technology generation and dissemination process was minimal (See Mid-Term
Review Report pg. 3). It was recommended that a new relationship has to be forged with
farmers, producer associations, the private sector and NGOs that will promote greater
community participation in extension planning, delivery and monitoring and evaluation.
Although it is noted that the Review was conducted at the tail end of project
implementation due to extenuating circumstances, the ASP in collaboration with the
Household Food Security Project, NGOs and the EDF have taken great strides in the



48
reversal of the status quo. In this regard Participatory Rural Appraisal tools and
techniques have been appropriately utilised with the ultimate objective of recognising and
appreciating the key role of the communities in the decision making process.
Furthermore, management training for community leaders has been consciously targeted
to ensure that farmers develop the capacity to make informed and cost-effective
decisions. In addition, all extension staff of DAS and DLS (and some staff of the
Department of Community Development, the Department of Health Services and other
agencies in the rural development sector) have under-gone three weeks of intensive
training in participatory rural techniques to ensure that the new concepts (and practice) of
the changing role of the extension service is appreciated and comprehended by all
partners. (See Table)
The infrastructure development programme executed by the ASP has improved both the
image and working conditions of staff of DLS and DAS particularly at the divisional
level and this resulted in the boosting of staff morale. However, it is noteworthy that in
the case of DLS, divisional facilities in CRD (North and South) and Western Division
were not rehabilitated.
The DEC and Veterinary Health Posts rehabilitation scheme was not implemented as
anticipated. However, the Governuent committed limited resources for the rehabilitation
of selected DECs and VHPs from local resources. Although such efforts are modest and
far from being adequate, it serves to motivate the beneficiaries.
As alluded to earlier, at the beginning of project implementation, both the DAS and DLS
lacked adequately trained extension staff who could catalyse the REFILS (Research -
Extension-Farmer-Input-Linkage-Systems) process. Training opportunities accorded to
the staff of both institutions and NARI greatly facilitated the implementation of this
extension approach and improved not only extension and research management, but also
the general delivery system. (Table on Training)
The advantages of a polyvalent extension system are appreciated by DOSA and positive
moves are being made in this direction. However, it is prudent that athorough review of
the system as it operates in some countries in the sub-region needs to conducted to
ascertain whether in reality, it is a "win, win" situation (i.e. a "no regret" option) that will
solve all the problems of extension delivery in the Gambia. In addition, it will also be
essential to review other extension strategies/ approaches and only at the end of the entire
process, come up with an extension policy that will be cognisant of Gambian realities. In
the absence of such an approach, extension strategies will continue to be dictated by what
is in vogue during a particular period.
However, certain positive key elements of polyvalent system has already been
incorporated into the extension services since 1995. There has been close collaboration



49
between DAS and DLS in the following key areas:
* Dissemination of crop and livestock extension messages by the same extension
agents.
*  Rationalisation of the deployment of front-line extension workers to  increase
coverage and avoid duplication of efforts.
*  The review of Gambia College's curriculum to cater for both livestock and
Agricultural Assistants ensuring that trainees are competent in both crop and
livestock production and extension.
*  Joint conduction of Fortnightly Training sessions(FNT), Monthly Technology
Review Meetings (MTRM), Planning, Evaluation and Synthesis
Workshops.
With regards to the research services, the overall transformation of the Agricultural
Research System in the country has been achieved and this has ensured the shift from a
strictly public institution to a semi-autonomous Institute .NARB was set up for the
effective execution of NARI's mandate and it continues to facilitate the enhancement of
research management ard resource allocation to the institute. In addition, a Technical
Secretariat was put in place to assist the NARB . The Research project development
process is functional andc is coordinated by both the Technical and Finance Committees.
The Strategic Research Planning Process has also been implemented culminating in the
development of the long Term and Medium Term Research Plans. Currently, these
documents have been validated and are awaiting endorsement from Cabinet. It is note
worthy that most of the physical (infrastructure) development objectives of NARI have
also been achieved.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
As agriculture will remain the key economic activity for the sustenance of the livelihood
of the majority of the Gambian population well into the next millennium, there is need to
strife for the sustenance of the gains made under ASP and its  predecessor
projects(ADP I 1,RDP etc).With an annual population growth rate of 4.2% and 45%of the
population estimated to be living in the Greater Banjul Area, it is clear that agricultural
production and productivity must be accelerated to satisfy the country's rising demand
(both in quantitative and qualitative terns) for food, fibres and basic services.
To sustain the gains made under ASP, it is imperative that the process of the formulation
and identification of a follow-up project should be expedited. After a series of
consultations with all the major take-holders (in Decemberl997), the Project Support
Unit of ASP developed a draft concept paper titled: 'Agricultural Transformation
Program (ATP) 1999-2020' and this document is expected to lay the foundation for all
future major interventions in the sector. The Program seeks, in the long terms, to



50
transform Gambian agriculture beyond the subsistence level to a market-oriented,
production-based system. The promotion of value-addition to primary produce and agro-
based industrialisation should also be accorded priority.
A follow-up project will focus on the following key areas taking into consideration the
recommendations of the Mid Term Review ( MTR ) and the Agricultural
Transformation Program (ATP).
* Farmer empowerment and involvement in all phases of technology generation ad
dissemination. Re-orientation of extension services to be accountable to the farmers.
* Extension focus on CBOs farmer groups, Producer Associations and peri-urban
producers.
* Enhancement of the research capacity in non-crop areas including livestock, fisheries,
forestry and natural resources management.
* Promotion of the usage of Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) techniques/tools in
extension delivery systems.
* Further strengthening of the usage of mass media in extension delivery.
* Strengthening of the extension services and research linkages. Infrastructural
development at village and district Levels (DECs, Vet Sub-stations including some of
the DLS facilities at divisional level).
* Establishment of GARF and the assessment of NARI's manpower requirements
linked to the Long Term(LT) and Medium Term(MT) Research Master Plan.
I.  KEY LESSONS LEANRT
*  To avoid delay of field level operations and to ensure that funds are utilised
for the purpose stipulated in the budgets and in keeping with the provisions of
the SAR, the follow-up project should be decentralised with key
implementing agencies having a degree of autonomy.
*  Staffing level at the Project Support Unit Should be kept at the minimum and
its major functions should be co-ordination only and not implementation. It
should be strictly supervised by a strong Project Implementation Committee
(PIC).
* Extension should focus more on Groups especially "Women's Groups" as
they have been found to be more cohesive and result oriented.



51
ANNEX IV: SUMMARY OF IAD INVESTIGATIONS
Review of Allegations Regarding the Agriculture Services Project (Cr.2453-GM)
Internal Audit Department
The World Bank, Washington, D.C
Introduction
Allegations were made to an independent consultant by a faculty member of Reading
University (UK) regarding financial hardships encountered by certain Gambian students on
World Bank-funded fellowships. It was alleged that these students had insufficient living
allowances and that their arrears in tuition payments prevented them from receiving their
diplomas. This information was sent to a Bank staff member who forwarded it to the
Investigations Unit of the Internal Audit Department (IADIU) for review. IADIU conducted a
review of these allegations to determine whether: (i) the allegations were supported by the facts
and events; (ii) any Borrower and/or Bank personnel were associated with these allegations; and
(iii) whether the financial management aspects of the overseas training program were adequately
supervised by Bank staff.
The fellowships in question were funded by the Gambian Agriculture Services Project
(C2453-GM) costing $17.2 million, of which $12.3 was an IDA credit. Part of the IDA funds
($3.9 million) were allocated for the training of Gamnbian agriculture extension and research
personnel. This included ninety-three government employees who received overseas fellowships
in the UK and US during the period 1994 through 1998.
The Bank task managers on the project were Chandra Pattanayak (a long-term consultant)
from approximately November 1994 to June 1996 and Katrine Saito (a Bank regular staff) from
August 1996 to August 1998. Pattanayak left the Bank in June 1996 and Saito left the Bank
September 1, 1998 on a mutually agreed separation. Following Saito, Gotz Schreiber (AFTA3)
supervised the project for a few months until his transfer to ECSSD and the present task manager
is Rudolph Polson (AFTRE).
Findings
We reviewed related project documents and withdrawal applications available at HQ. We
also contacted relevant Bank staff, university faculty and administrators, government personnel
and some students to confirm pertinent information, such as tuition costs and living allowances.
The information compiled from twenty-nine universities was compared with expenditures shown
in the withdrawal applications and the Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) to determine
underpayments (the basis for the allegations), overpayments, and eligibility for payments. Our
review did not include a field visit.



52
Trainee Hardships: Our review found that seven students did not receive adequate funds
for their training programs in amounts totaling approximately $101,000. These individuals faced
the withholding of their grades and diplomas due to non-payment of tuition and failed to receive
sufficient subsistence and return airfare funds.
Overpayments: The review also revealed that more than half of the individuals appear to
have received more money than the required amount for their training. Out of the ninety-three
students we examined, fifty-four students received excess payments ranging from $2,000 to
$40,000 each for their tuition, living allowances and airfare. The overpayments amounted to
approximately $595,000 or 20% of the $3.0 million IDA funds disbursed for UK and US
fellowships since 1994.
No Record of Attendance: The review of SOEs revealed that three individuals received
IDA funds totaling $39,000 for overseas training although the universities had no record of their
attendance.
Inconsistent Methods of Payment: Methods of disbursement for tuition, living
allowances and airfare varied widely and obscured excessive payments to individuals. In a
number of cases, training costs approved by the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) were higher
than those quoted by the universities. In other cases, excess funds were processed through the
university accounts and then refunded to the students. Many of the SOE entries did not clearly
show the frequency and amounts of payments made to individual students.
In the course of our review, there was no indication of direct Bank staff involvement
regarding the allegations. However, the review did indicate that Bank supervision of the training
program was not sufficient to identify the serious financial nature of the problems and to ensure
appropriate action by the PCU to correct them.
Conclusions
The significant number of instances of inconsistent and/or irregular payments to
individual students indicate that financial management in the PCU was poor. Although
problems with training program implementation and the Government's diversion of
project resources to other non-project agencies was noted in the mid-term review and
Bank communications with Government, the Bank's subsequent supervision and
financial monitoring appeared to be insufficient to completely address these issues. While
the Government did agree to return some funds (approximately $250,000) that had been
improperly disbursed and scale down the overseas training program, these measures
appear to have been too little and too late to improve the outcome of the project. Our HQ
review did not reveal any flagrant wrongdoing by Bank staff regarding disbursements or
use of training funds.
Considering the volume and magnitude of the inconsistencies and/or irregularities in
project disbursements, we recommend that Regional management consider a detailed field



53
review of the PCU's financial management and the transactions related to the overseas training
program to determine the degree of the PCU's compliance with the financial covenants of the
Credit Agreement and other financial guidelines, and what lessons can be learned to prevent
similar occurrences in the future. We were informed that the present task manager is now
conducting a project completion report and has initiated preliminary discussions concerning the
financial management of the project.



i



IBRD 23977
A Dad.'     4                                        zOefior <<. IS'                                                             TIns n=p hos baa's preprnTd -. h.b  :    o-      MAURITANIA
by Th. WonId- an's snob
so.9                       l                                                                                                                                                           of    n ead onr  ordl e i   o en  tim rn.XX      r E            .
S  E  N  E  G   A        L                                        ,n,annoimms~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  T.sIW,WnIdUB-  mi0'SENEGAL    ~ ML
onn Th. snp   ono   nn,,a   ts  C
\  Jp   '                                        /              *    DeparerfaentoiLiveshckMoinSteiransl13)      ----  Division P30undories                                linrorQ    t                1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nnas o lbsboo
.                                                             -              ;,10w1o=    I ,  -d
rsr , ., dNioSo do Ri                           d0                                          \--.                                                               LE _NE
.   \             *-'-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T. .dB'kG.,
l  k roz;wwFocAer       heSi2aiacX                                                                           I sAzVv                                                                                         JuLrlW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~neratasalBosnane
-                                                  IT.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
tAsIngaa.dda,  /loZtdssJttcbPa                                                                     laZ,osssarhasN15
J 'Ic -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JL19



