CREDIT NUMBER 2453 GH
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Services Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                       23      , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2453 GH
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                   28    , 1993, between the
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Borrower has applied to the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (the Fund) for a loan (the Fund Loan) in an
amount equivalent to two million five hundred fifty thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 2,550,000) to assist in financing the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Fund Loan
Agreement) between the Borrower and the Fund; and
(C)   the  Fund  intends  to  appoint  the Association   as
Cooperating Institution to administer the Fund Loan and the
Association is prepared to accept such appointment;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;


﻿-2-
(b)   "Project Account" means the Project Account referred to
in Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement;
(c)   "WARB" means the National Agricultural Research Board
referred to in Section 3.01 (c) (i) of this Agreement;
(d)   "NARI" means the Gambia Agricultural Research Institute
referred to in Section 3.01 (c) (i) of this Agreement;
(e)   "PSU" means the Project Support Unit referred to in
Section 3.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement;
(f)   "TS" means the Technical Secretariat referred to in
Section 3.01 (c) (iii) of this Agzeement; and
(g)   "Participating Arrangements" means the arrangements
referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement between
the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), the Gambia College, the Ministry
of Education and the Ministry of Natural Resources and the
Environment.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eight million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 8,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
oper and maintain in dollars two special deposit accounts, a Special
Acccant A for NARB/NARI and a Special Account B for the Ministry of
Agriculture in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
sitisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments


﻿-3
out ol, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The cowmitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of >hree-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15,
commencing May 15, 2003 and ending November 15, 2032. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on November 15,
2012 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each


﻿-4-
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph   (b) above, the Association    determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the
Ministry of Agriculture and the National Agricultural Research Board
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, agricultural extension and research
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.


﻿-5-
(b)   Without limitation or restriction of its obligations
under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall: (i) provide
in its annual budget amounts adequate to cover its counterpart
contributions to the costs of the Project; (ii) open and maintain in
its Central Bank an account (the Project Account) to be used
exclusively to meet expenditures under the Project; and deposit into
the Project Account: (A) an initial amount of $50,000 equivalent,
and (B) the remaining amount of its counterpart contributions,
quarterly in advance, according to a schedule of payments agreed
upon between the Borrower and the Association.
(c)   (i)   The Borrower shall continue to maintain the
National Agricultural Research Board (NARB) and
establish and maintain a National Agricultural
Research Institute (NARI), all in a form and with
functions and staffing satisfactory to the
Association.
(ii) The Borrower shall continue to maintain in a form
and with functions and staffing satisfactory to
the Association its Project Support Unit (PSU).
The Project Support Unit shall be responsible for
handling procurement matters under all Parts of
the Project (other than Part C (2) of the
Project),  and   for   the  administration   and
monitoring of Project activities.
(iii)   The Borrower shall cause NARB to: (A) establish-
and thereafter maintain a Technical Secretariat
(TS) within NARB. TS shall be established and
maintained in a form and with functions and
staffing satisfactory to the Association; and (B)
appoint and assign to TS a Research Manager and a
Finance Expert whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
(d)   The Borrower shall carry out by the beginning of the
third year of the Project and complete by the end of the said year
an adoption and diffusion extension study satisfactory to the
Association.
(e)   The Borrower shall: (i) no later than December 31, 1996,
carry out jointly with the Association a mid-term review of the
Project to assess on the basis of the key monitoring indicators


﻿-6-
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association: (A) the
overall progress made in carrying out the Project, including its
benefits and costs; (B) the performance of agencies and entities
participating in the Project; (C) the extent to which the
institutional objectives of the Project have been achieved; and (D)
the results of the adoption and diffusion extension study referred
to in paragraph (d) of this Section; and (ii) promptly thereafter
implement the recommendations of the mid-term review to the
satisfaction of the Association.
(f)   The Borrower shall transmit to the Association, at least
90 days prior to the mid-term review described in paragraph (e)
above, a report, in scope and detaii satisfactory to the
Association, describing the status of Project implementation.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall carry out the actions
described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the
Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower (including PSU and NARB/NARI) responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in   accordance   with    appropriate   auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;


﻿-7-
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one      year after the
Association has received the audit for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable  the  Association's  representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure   that  such  records  and  accounts  are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely,
that subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(i)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw       the
proceeds of any loan, credit or grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
(including the Fund Loan) shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor; or
(ii) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b)   Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i)   such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and
(ii) adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, the
event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement
shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) of that
Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:


﻿-9-
(a)   the appointment of the Research Manager and the Finance
Expert referred to in Section 3.01 (c) (iii) of this Agreement;
(b)   the furnishing to the Association of the procurement
plan for the Project (including timetables) referred to in paragraph
1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(c)   the deposit into the Project Account of the initial
amount referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement;
(d)   the conclusion by the Ministry of Agriculture, the
Gambia College, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of
Natural Resources and the Environment of the Participation
Arrangements referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement;
(e)   the due establishment of NARB and NARI by law;
(f)   the  appointment   of  auditors   acceptable  to  the
Association to audit the records and accounts for the Project for at
least three years; and
(g)   the furnishing to the Association of the consolidated
human resources development/training plan referred to in Part A.3 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister responsible for Finance and Trade
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 10 -
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs
The Quadrangle
Banjul
The Republic of The Gambia
Cable address:                Telex:
MINFIN                    2264
The Republic of
The Gambia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
By4/                 f      1
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Civil works:
(a) NARB/NARI              150,000        100% of foreign
under Part C                         expenditures; and
(1) of the                           40% of local
Proj ect                             expenditures
(b) Under other            570,000        100% of foreign
Parts of the                         expenditures; and
Project                              65% of local
expenditures
(2)   Vehicles, equipment,                      100%
furniture and
materials:
(a) NARB/NARI            1,000,000
under Part C.1
of the Project
(b) Undcr other            780,000
Parts of the
Project (except
Parts B(1)(a)(vi),
B(1)(c)(i), (d),
and D)


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          Z of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(3)   Consultants'                             100%
Services:
(a) NARB/NARI             360,000
under Part
C.1 of the
Project
(b) Under other           430,000
Parts of the
Project (except
Parts B(1)(a) (vi),
B (1)(c) (i),  (d) ,
and D)
(4)   Training:                                100%
(a) NARB/NARI             500,000
under Part C.1
of the Project
(b) Under other         2,000,000
Parts of the
Project (except
Parts B(1) (a) (vi),
B(1) (c) (i), (d),
and D)
(5)   Incremental
operating
costs:
(a) NARB/NARI             710,000        75%
under Part C.1
of the Project


﻿- 14-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Cateiory               SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(b) Under other          1,000,000        90%
Parts of the
Project (except
B(1)(a)(vi),
B(1)(c)(i),(d),
and D)
(6)   Unallocated              1,300,000
TOTAL                    8,800,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   the  term  "incremental operating   costs" means the
following incremental costs: (i) travel allowances and local in-
services training expenditures for extension and research staff;
(ii) operating and maintenance costs of vehicles, equipment,
furniture and buildings; (iii) motorcycles allowances; (iv) costs of
office and laboratory supplies and publications; and (v) salaries of
incremental staff of PSU.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist in: (i) increasing
agricultural productivity in the Gambia; (ii) generating sustained
growth in the incomes of small farming families; and (iii) promoting
self help and indigenous development potential among farmers and
rural folk, through strengthening support services in agricultural
extension, research and training.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Agricultural Sector Analysis and Planning
1.    Strengthening the Departments of Planning in the Ministries of
Agriculture and Natural Resources and Environment in sector analysis
and planning including: (i) the provision of short-term consultancy
services to the Departments by an external university/institution
under an agreement between the MOA and the university/institution
satisfactory to the Association; (ii) short-term and graduate level
training of staff of the Departments; (iii) provision to the
Departments of vehicles, computers, software and office facilities;
and (iv) workshops and networking activities for staff of the
Departments.
Part B:     Extension Services and Functional Literacy
(1.   (a)   Strengthening of extension operations of the Department
of Agricultural Services including: (i) extension planning,
programming, and monitoring; (ii) development of extension
recomendations including animal husbandry, plant protection, post-
harvest technology, natural resource management practices and
farming systems' linkages, collaboration with non-governmental
organizations and farmers organizations; (iii) in-service training
of staff of the Department; (iv) decentralization of extension
management and strengthening of the District Extension Centers and
regional   extension  staff;   (v)  preparation  of   a  long-term
comprehensive   human   resources  development   plan;   and   (vi)
strengthening the MID agricultural and livestock extension services
through the provision of inter alia vehicles, equipment, materials,
training and associated operational support.


﻿- 16 -
(b)   Strengthening  of  the  outreach  activities  of  the
Department of Agricultural Services including assisting the Services
and the Unit to take effective countrywide soil conservation
measures and advise on community-based land management plans.
(c)   Strengthening of: (i) the soil and water management and
Agricultural Communication Units of the Department of Agricultural
Services; and (ii) the Agricultural Pest Management, the Food and
Nutrition Units of the Department of Agricultural Services,
including the provision to the Units of office and laboratory
equipment, audio-visual and printing equipment, materials and
supplies.
(d)   Carrying out by the Non-Formal Education Department of
a functional literacy program, including: (i) the development and
production by the Non-Formal Education Department and the
Agricultural Communications Unit of functional literacy materials;
(ii) expansion of the ongoing functional literacy training at the
MacCarthy Island Division, in collaboration with the Jahaly-Pacharr
Smallholder Project; (iii) training of programme assistants to train
village facilitators; and (iv) provision of vehicles and equipment
for the use of programme assistants in carrying out the Project.
2.    (a)   Carrying out, with the assistance of the Ministry of
Natural   Resources    and   the   Environment,   a   series   of
ecological/eniironmental surveys and inventories to support the
Borrower's environmental action plan and facilitate the preparation
of the Borrower's natural resource management plans including: (i)
a range land inventory; and (ii) a study of river flow and saline
intrusion in the River Gambia.
(b)   Strengthening of the Environmental Unit of the Ministry
of Natural Resources and the Environment.
3.    (a)   Reorganization of the Department of Livestock Services
to strengthen its extension responsibilities including: (i) a
programme of regular visits of the Department staff to farmers to
advise them on all aspects of animal production; and (ii) the
introduction into the Department's staff of supervisory staff and
designation of Subject Matter Specialists.
(b)   Coordination by the Department of Livestock Services and
the Department of Agricultural Services of their extension
activities including: (i) the adoption by the two Departments of a
time bound and supervised work programme; (ii) joint training of


﻿- 17 -
staff of the two Departments; (iii) strengthening of the links
between research and extension; (iv) development and dissemination
of complementary extension recommendations addressing the particular
concerns of resource poor farmers and women farmers; and (v)
development of a media-based strategy by the Agricultural
Communications Unit of the Department of Agricultural Services.
(c)   Rehabilitation and repair of selected facilities and
veterinary posts of the Department of Livestock Services and the
Department of Agricultural Services, including provision of fences
ad the rehabilitation of wells.
(d)   Provision of: (i) communication and office equipment and
supply of farm implements to each District Extension Centre; (ii)
pick-up trucks, motor cycles, mopeds and bicycles to the Department
of Livestock Services and the Department of Agricultural Services;
and (iii) in-service, specialized and degree level training
(including out-of-country training) for qualified extension staff of
the said Departments.
Part C:     Agricultural Research and Education System
1.    (a)    Strengthening of the agricultural research system of
the Gambia, including: (i) the strengthening of the National
Agricultural Research Board (NARB), and (ii) the establishment of
(A) a National Agricultural Research Institute (NARI), (B) a Gambia
Agricultural Research Fund (GARF) to be managed by the NARB; and (C)
a Technical Secretariat within the NARB in a form and with functions
and staffing (including a Research Manager and a finance expert)
satisfactory to the Association;
(b)   Preparation of a long-term strategy and a master plan
for agricultural research satisfactory to the Association;
(c)   Carrying out of selective priority research programs
satisfactory to the Association, including programs to be carried
out under short-term contracts;
(d)   Strengthening of: (i) internal linkages with farmers,
non-governmental organizations and extension services; and (ii)
external linkages with national, regional and international research
institutions;


﻿- 18 -
(e)   establishment of an    internal and external system
satisfactory to the Association to review agricultural research
programs to be carried out under the Project; and
(f)   training of research staff: including (i) university
training; (ii) experiment station and scientific management
training; (iii) short out-of-country courses to upgrade specific
skills; and (iv) on-the-job training.
2.    Strengthening of the Agricultural School of the Gambia
College, including: (i) the provision of in-service training courses
for extension staff; (ii) upgrading of (A) the School's class room,
laboratory and other facilities, and (B) the School's teaching farm;
and (iii) the provision of instructional materials, publications and
documentation.
Part D:     Community Self-Help and Farmer Empowerment Promotion
1.    Carrying out of pilot activities in the MacCarthy Island
Division to promote community self-help activities and indigenous
development potential among farmers and rural people, including: (i)
strengthening of farmers' associations and related farmer training
for water management and irrigated rice production; (ii) testing of
animal traction and other intermediate labor saving technologies for
irrigated  rice   production;  and   (iii)  training  of  village
entrepreneurs capable of running small businesses for farm inputs
and implements.
2.    Establishment   of  a   monitoring   and  evaluation   (M&E)
arrangements to closely monitor the operations in MacCarthy Island
Division.
3.    Assisting the development of rural financial services by
strengthening and expanding Village Savings and Credit Associations
(VISACAs); supporting a National Centre for the promotion of
VISACAs;  providing   a  refinancing   facility  to  meet   credit
requirements; developing a national policy on rural financing.


﻿- 19 -
4.    Establishment of a Village Development Fund, to be used in
financing community-initiated social infrastructure including
village water points, day-care centers and village woodlots, rural
roads improvement and soil conservation works.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.    Goods to be procured through     international competitive
bidding, shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by a
third party.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Gambia may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    The following works (up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$700,000 equivalent) may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association, namely: (i) houses for
extension staff, greenhouses and shadehouses at agricultural
research stations; and (ii) fencing, road rehabilitation, and
rehabilitation of irrigation networks and research stations and
divisional headquarters.
2.    Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per
contract (up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,600,000
equivalent) may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive  bidding, advertised   locally,  in  accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per
contract (up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000


﻿- 21 -
equivalent) may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of said Appendix shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the


﻿- 22 -
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Actions Referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement
Part A
1.    The Borrower shall furnish to the Association a procurement
plan for the Project, including timetables, satisfactory to the
Association in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
2.    The Ministry   of Agriculture conclude arrangements     (the
Participation Arrangements) satisfactory to the Association with the
Gambia College and the Borrower's Ministry of Education and the
Ministry of Natural Resources and the Environment setting out the
terms and conditions of Project implementation and coordination.
3.    (a) The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association
a   consolidated   human  resources   development/training  plan,
satisfactory to the Association, of agencies of the Borrower
participating in the Project and shall furnish to the Association a
policy statement on extension satisfactory to the Association which
sets out the main features of the extension program to be carried
out under the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall until completion of the Project: (i)
review annually with the Association the said consolidated plan; and
(ii) prepare for each year following every such annual review a
detailed human resources development/training plan satisfactory to
the Association.
Part B
5.    MOA's Department of Planning shall by December 31, 1993
conclude an agreement satisfactory to the Association with an
external institution acceptable to the Association for the provision
by the institution of professional support to the Department.
6.    The Borrower shall cause the Gambia College to: (i) revise by
December 31, 1993 its curricula so as to provide courses for (A)
agriculturalists on animal husbandry, (B) livestock students on crop
production; and (ii) furnish to the Association by the said date a
plan for attracting qualified female students to apply for entry to
courses at the College.


﻿- 24 -
7.    The Borrower shall cause NARI to introduce by January 1, 1994
a research programming and program implementation monitoring system
satisfactory to the Association.
8.    The Borrower shall cause NARB to furnish to the Association
for its approval NARB's scheme of service for researchers employed
by NARB before the scheme is put into effect.
9.    The Borrower shall cause NARI to employ consultants to assist
in strengthening and improving its research station management
through on-the-job training during the first year of Project
implementation.
10.   The Borrower shall cause HARB to furnish to the Association
for its approval draft standard contract specifications for research
proposals to be financed through the Gambia Agricultural Research
Fund before signing the first contract for the carrying out of any
such research.
11.   The   Borrower    shall   cause   the    Deputy   Permanent
Secretary/Project Coordinator and the Technical Secretariat of NARB
to furnish to the Association in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request semiannual progress reports highlighting
progress in Project implementation, key issues and proposed
solutions for problems encountered in the course of the carrying out
of the Project.
12.   The Borrower shall cause the components of the Part D of the
Project relating to self reliance and farmer empowerment to be
carried out in accordance with the implementation plan agreed by the
Borrower and the Association.
13.   The Borrower shall cause the MOA to continue to maintain and
strengthen its three-year rolling public expenditure programming
system, with close linkage with the existing Borrower's public
budgeting system.
14.   The Borrower shall ensure continuous mobility of its field
extension staff through, inter alia, an appropriate level of
allowances paid to such staff. The adequacy of this level shall be
reviewed annually between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means for Special Account
A, Categories (1)(a), (2)(a), (3)(a), (4)(a) and (5)(a), and for
Special Account B, Categories (1)(b), (2)(b), (3)(b), (4)(b) and
(5)(b) set forth in the table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be fi- anced out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement; and
(c)   the  term  "Authorized Allocation" means    an  amount
equivalent to: (i) $250,000 for Special Account A; and (ii) $500,000
for Special Account B, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Accounts has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized AllocatiLn and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Accounts


﻿- 26 -
at such intervals az the Association shall
specify.
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and ot.er evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Accounts such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Accounts for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Accounts, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3       of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Accounts:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once  the total unwithdrawn    amount  of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories of the Project, less the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.


﻿- 27 -
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Accounts: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Accounts
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Accounts shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Accounts will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Accounts.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the orizinal in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


