Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot Ne. 8442
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1681-OR)
MARCH 16, 1990
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department II
Europe, Middle East and North At ica Regional Office
Thi documn has a nbricted dsrbution and may be med by ripknts only to dte perfonuc of
dik offiial dudes. Its contens may not othdwise be dclosed withut Wodd Bank amihoation.



GnSuSx
DECS   - School Equipment and Construction Division
(in Kinistry of National Zducation)
EIA    - See ENSEM
EMI    - Molmmedia School of Engineering
ENSEM  - National Higher School of Electrical and Mochanical
Engineering (formerly National Institute of Applied
Engineering - EIA)
ENSET  - Technical Teacher Training Institute
EST    -  (Post-Secondary) Institute of Technology
LT     - Technical High School
MEN    - Ministry of National Education
OFPPT  - Vocational Training and Staff Training Office
(in Ministry of Public Works, Vocational Training
and Staff Training)
PCR    - Project Completion Report
PIU    - Project Implementation Unit
R&D    - Research and Development
SAP    - Special Action Program
SAR    - Staff Appraisal Report
VAT    - Value-added Tax
EvolUt_ion of the Exchenje Rates
Dir1"tQ - US Dollar
At Appraisal            09-1978     US$ 1 - DH4.10
Period Average             1979    US$ 1 - DH3.79
1980    US$ 1 - DH3.94
1981    US$ 1 - DH5.12
1982    US$ 1 - DH5.98
1983    US$ 1 - DH7.11
1984    US$ 1 - DH8.79
1985    USS 1 - DH9.96
1986    US$ 1 - DH9.08
1987    US$ 1 - DH8.32
1988    US$ 1 - DH8.16



FRo OffCIAL WE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Was,ton. DC 20433
U.S.A.
Ofit ad ta Gvhutlet
March 16, 1990
MENORANDUN TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report:  MOROCCO - Fourth Education
Proiect (Loan 1681-NOR)
Accached, .or intormation, is a copy of a report entitled
'Project Completion Report: Morocco - Fourth Education Project
(Loan 1681-MOR)# prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower.
Attachment
This document has a restriced distibuonand may be ued by roipnts ony in the petnrmance
of theirofici dutieL Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed witbout Wodd Dank authfiation.



FOR OFFIMCL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1681-NOR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No,
Preface .....     . .........................................            i
Evaluation Summary .ii
PART I -   Project Review from Bank's Perspective .....    .........     1
Project Identity and Key Indicators .................        1
Background.                                                  1
Project Objectives and Description.                          2
Project Design and Organization.                             3
Project Implementation.                                      4
Project Results.                                             6
Bank Performance.                                            9
Borrower Performance .10
Consulting Services .10
Project Documentation and Data .11
Project Sustainability .11
PART II - Project Review from Borrower's Perspective .13
Physical Components of the Project .13
Accounting Components .16
Bank Performance .17
Difficulties in Project Implementation .18
Achievement of Project Objectives .22
Annex 1 - Project School Data .24
PART III - Statistical Information .25
Related Bank Loans .25
Project Timetable .25
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements               26
Project Costs and Financing .27
Project Results .28
Status of Covenants .31
Use of Bank Resources .33
Annex I - Project Implementation Schedule .35
Annex II - Evolution of the Exchange Rates .36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the petfomance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1681-1OR)
r.UEFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Fourth
Education Project in Morocco, for which Loan 1681-MOR in the amount of
US$113 million was approved in April 1979. The loan was closed on June 30,
1988. three and half years behind schedule. Following a cancellation of
US$25 million in November 1984, the reduced Loan of US$88 million was
disbursed except for a balance of US$0.5 million which was cancelled. The
last disbursement was on April 20, 1989.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Population and Human Resources
Operations Division of Country Department II, EMENA Region (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission in November 1988, and is based, inter alia, on the
Staff Appraisal Report and Loan Agraement;  stspervision reports;
correspondence between the Bank an-t the Borrower; and internal Bank
memoranda.



X ii 
PROJECT COMPLETION MEPORT
ORCBQ
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 168l-flOR-
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objective_s
The Fourth Education Project in Morocco was aiming at increasing
the supply of middle-level and professional technical manpower and to
provide technical teachers in support of the Introduction to Technology
program in the country's secondary schools (para. 3).
To that effect, the following investments were envisaged:
(i) civil works, furniture and equipment for eleven technical lycees;
one Technical Teacher Training Institute; two post-secondary
Institutes of Technology; the Pational Institute of Applied
Engineering; and an extension to the existing Nohammedia School of
Engineering;
(ii)  tebhliic4il asissance related to the before-meentionted itlVStmei-IL.
and in support of the PIU; and
(iii) funds for future project preparation (para. 4).
Implementation Exnerience
The US$113 million Loan was approved by the Board on April 10,
1979 and became effective on October 16, 1979. While a good deal of the
design work was undertaken prior to the latter date, implementation was
nevertheless slowed down by a variety of adverse factors, including limited
availability of counterpart funds, complex Government procedures, poor
performance by the PIU, and difficulties with consulting firms. An initial
delay of nine months in the start of civil works could not be made good
again, and the difficulties were later compounded by, among other events,
the bankruptcy of one contractor. In November 1984, US$25 million (22X of
the Loan amount) were cancelled, and after four extensions of the original
Closing Date, the accounts were closed (with the remainder of the Loan,
except for US$0.5 million, disbu..'ed) on April 20, 1989. Paradoxically (in
view of the 1984 loan funds cancellation), the Bank agreed to use about
US$8 million of unused Loan funds from the Fifth Education Project to be
applied for equipment purchases for this project (paras. 10-13).
Results
In terms of physical facilities, the project has achieved what it
set out to do (although in the case of the lycees techniques without the
full equipment complement specified at appraisal). However, in terms of
enrollments, most project institutions are, for a variety of reasons, still
well below targets (and even more so in terms of output of graduates).



- iii -
This makes the facilities, which had already high investment unit costs by
international comparison to start with, very expensive to operate.
The external efficiency of the lycees techniques, i.e., the con-
tribution of the schools to the middle-level manpower needs of the labor
market, is very limited as most of the graduates attempt to continue their
education. The higher education institutions in the project appear to be
doing better in this respect, although the absence of a tracer system
(which was supposed to be established) and the general dearth of relevant
information prevent a more specific assessment (paras. 18-24).
Sustainability
The main uncertainty about the long-term prospects of the project
institutions concerns the future role of the lycees techniques: at present
they are neither a good preparatory stage for higher education (as wit-
nessed by the much higher failure rates of their graduates in higher
education) nor the envisaged training ground for middle-level technical
manpower (para. 14).
Findings and Lessons Learned
One obvious lesson of the project is to keep the size and com-
plexity of a project in line with existing implementation capabilities--in
this case there was an obvious mismatch between the two.
The second finding concerns the uuderpinii.g of education projects
through manpower projections: it is obviously not enough to identify (by
whatever analytical approach) "needs" for a certain type of manpower; it is
essential to ascertain that the users of the new education/training facili-
ties are willing to meet these needs by assuming the functions assigned to
them by manpower planners.
Lastly, the area of tracer studies or more generally, of a follow-
up on the "products" of education projects, should be recognized in its
full complexity, a task which camnot be carried out by simple administra-
tive fiat at the time of appraisal, but which requires an elaborate
staffing framework and substantial budget resources.



- 1 -
QEZICT QCLX     OhRKEPORT
MOROCCO
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1681-NOR)
PART I:  Project Review from Bank's Persnective
T.       Project Identity and Key Indicators
Project Name:       Fourth Education Project
Loan No.:           1681 MOR
Country:            Morocco
Sector:             Education
Sub-sectors:        Secondary and post-secondary technical
education
Loan Amount:        $113 million - reduced to $88 million in
Nov. 1984.
Board Approval:     April 1979
Effectiveness:      Oct. 1979
Original Closing
Date:              Dec. 31, 1984
Actual Closing
Date:              June 30, 19881/
II.      Background
1.       In the early 1970's,  favorable economic conditions and policy
orientations favoring fast economic growth enabled Morocco's GDP to grow at
an average yearly rate of 7%. This export-led growth concentrated in the
manufacturing and mining sectors, expansion of rainfed agriculture and
tourism.  The social sectors also benefitted from this expansion.  Total
public expenditures on education rose from 4.2% of GDP in 1972 to 6.3% in
1976, a high figure by any standards for a country where an estimated half
of the 7-11 age group was still out of school.2/ Education total enroll-
ments increased at over 8% p.a. during the same period. Employment, how-
ever, grew at about the same rate as the labor force, remaining at about
90%.  Shortages of skilled and experienced manpower were perceived as a
constraint to further economic development. At the higher levels, short-
ages were alleviated by the employment of expatriates (at best, merely a
1/ The Loan account was closed on March 31, 1989.
2/ Based on 65% gross enrollment ratio minus ovaraged students.



- 2 -
temporary and costly expedient). At the middle and lower levels, shortages
were seen as particularly constraining and the training infrastructure as
inadequate.   The gaps between the annual average manpower requirements
estimated for the period 1977-1990 and the 1977 manpower output clearly
illustrate the perceived supply shortages: 1,740 engineers needed vs. an
output of 387 in 1977; 4,400 higher technicians needed vs. 407 supplied;
25,200 middle technicians needed vs. 5,400 supplied; 310 technical teachers
needed vs. none supplied:   there was no specific training for technical
teaclhers. 601 of the technical teacher force were expatriates.
2.       By the late 1970's, less favorable economic conditions - falling
export prices (especially for phosphates), rising military expenditures and
increased debt service - forced the Moroccan Government to constrain public
expenditures on most sectors, including the socially oriented ones, and to
rely more heavily on external borrowings. The loan approved for the Fourth
Education Project (US $ 113 million, FY 79) was 2.5 times what Morocco had
received from the Bank for all previous projects in the education sector.
The project was part of Morocco's program to meet its urgent manpower needs
through the expansion of secondary and post-secondary technical education
and technical teacher training.
III.     Projlet Obiectives and DescriDtion
3.       The project was designed to increase the supply of middle and
higher technicians and engineers, and of technical teachers for the ex-
panding system of technical lyc6es and for the Introduction to Technology
program in the general lycees. The project institutions were to be located
in accordance with Government policies for decentralized development and
the need to disperse training opportunities among regional centers of
development.
4.       The project was to comprise:
(a) Construction, equipment and furniture for:
(i) 11 technical lyc6es (LT - lycie technique)
(iii  a Technical Teacher Training Institute
(ENSET    Ecole nationale sup6rieure de l'enseignement
technique)
(iii)   2 post-secondary institutes of technology
(EST - Ecole superieure de technologie)
(iv)   the National Institute of Applied Engineering
(now ENSEK - Ecole nationale superieure d'electricite et de
mecanique)



-3 -
(v)   the extension of the existing Mohammedia School of
Engineering (EMI- Ecole Mohammedia d4!ngdnieurs);
(b) Technical assistance related to (i) to (v) above and to
support the Project Implementation Unit (28 years of experts
and 1 1/3 years of foreign fellowships); and
(c) pre-investment studies for the preparation of a future educa-
tion project.
IV.      Project Design and Organization
5.       By the mid 70's, development of middle and higher level technical
manpower had reached a critical juncture.   At the lower end of the
spectrum, LTs were the considered as second-class institutions, attracting
solely students of lesser abilities than those able to pursue general upper
secondary courses leading to the mainstream Baccalaureat.   At the upper
end, the ENI, the country's highest engineering school, had reached a point
where it would either stagnate, or attain even higher standards involving
the training of advanced level engineers competent to guide the countr-
into its technological and industrial future.
6.       During appraisal of the Third Education Project (Summer 1975), a
number of manpower training institutions were identified for creation or
extension. The Third Project was to focus on primary and secondary educa-
tion and teacher trainine, as well as on manDower training in agriculture,
health and tourism. The technical education institutions considered during
appraisal but not included in the Third project due to insufficient pre-
paration were to be included in the next Bank operation: several LTs, a
technical teacher training college (ENSET), and an applied engineering
college (to become ENSEM).   During preparation of the Fourth Education
Project, several more items were identified: the extension of the EMI, the
creation of two higher institutes of technology (ESTs), and some other
items of lower priority. The LTs would clearly get the lion's share of the
operation: the Moroccan Government and the Bank had agreed that a new type
of technical lycee was required to train techniciar&A for immediate employ-
ment in industry in contrast to the traditional lycees which prepared
students for the higher education system. The new schools would be more
practically oriented and would provide appropriate short courses for
workers as well as a three-year secondary technice1. course closely related
to industry needs. Funds were included in the Third Education Project to
finance the designs and the programs of these schools.
7.       The Moroccan Government insisted that all identified items be
appraised and was contemplating a project estimated at $270 million, of
which 60% would be foreign exchange costs, thus calling for a $162 million
loan.   These numbers were based on high space standards and equipment
costs. The Bank's estimates, about 20X lower, were adopted and resulted in
total project costs of $217 million, corresponding to a $113 million loan
to cover the equivalent of the full foreign exchange costs, calculated at
52% of total project costs.  Although somewhat awed by the size of this



education project, the Bank found it difficult to exclude any of tlle items
that would eventually comprise the project:  individually, they were all
justified in terms of apparent long range manpower needs and as a whole
they formoe a fully integrated operation covering the four levels of middle
and higher technical education in Morocco. Even though, in its attempt to
scale down the size of the loan, the appraisal mission had excluded
boarding facilities for LTs from the Bank financing package, the Loan
Committee reLomanded that they be included on social equity grounds,
pointing out that they would extend opportunities for upper secondary
technical education, beyo-d the cities where the LTs were to be built, to
less privileged regions. So boarding facilities were included in the Bank
financing package.
8.       The sum of all these individually justified components was a very
large operation, both in financial and e-:ganizational terms, which pre-
sented a high degree of complexity. The Government and the Bank foresaw
that it would create a challenge for the Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
in the Ministry of Education.   The PIU had been established under the
Second Education Project and had fairly successfully carried out the imple-
mentation of the Second and Third Education projects, both small and homo-
geneous operations.  The Fourth Education Project called for 8 years of
expert services to assist the PIU, through the employment of an engineer
and an architect for the life of the project. It also called for the full
time hiring of two Moroccan engineers, an architect and two technicians for
the PIU.
9.       Finally,  the project provided for a tracer system and tracer
studies. To evaluate the relevance of the training given in the project
institutions to industry's needs and to assess if the graduates secured
employment in jobs for which they had been trained, a tracer system would
be devised for each institution one year before its opening and tracer
studies would be carried out for five years following the first outputs
from the institutions.   The project would also finance pre-investment
designs for the development of a standard workshop design for rural primary
schools, secondary teacher training colleges focussing on science training,
and a proposed center for coordinating and planning scientific and techno-
logical research.
V.       Proiect Implementation
10.      In spite of adequate design (justified components, detailed pre-
investment work on space and cost standards, ample provision for technical
assistance, inclusion of tracer studies), this project was plagued with
problems:   Unavailability of counterpart funds, a bankrupt contractor,
difficulties with the Ministry of Finance over custom duties, insufficient
staffing and poor performance of the PIU, not enough money (after the Bank
loan was cut down by $25 million), all this contributed to an unsatisfac-
tory project implementation which took four years more than anticipated
(see Annex I). It also shifted the focus of the pv-oject from the delivery



- 5 -
of quality and relevant technical training to how to build and equip tech-
nical training Institutions.
11.      The predicaments encountered during implementation can be grouped
under two headings:   financial difficulties and poor project management
performance.   Budgetary constraints were at the origin of the first
implementation delays.   The consultants preparing the engineering and
architectural designs had slowed down on work while awaiting payment. This
resulted in a 9-month delay in starting the bidding procedures for school
construction. Morocco's budgetary restraints on public expenditures caused
further delays in contract signing and payment to suppliers. Additional
delays in procurement of workshop equipment resulted from the Ministry of
Finance's unwillingness to grant waiver of custom duties. Custom duty fees
for this equipment had not been iacluded in the Loi des Finances defining
the counterpart funds (it is not clear whether it was an oversight or an
attempt to fit the project within the reduced budget).
12.      The evolution of the US dollar/Moroccan Dirham exchange rate
seemed initially to alleviate Morocco's tight budgetary situation but
eventually contributed to the project's financial difficulties. Annex II
shows that by 1984, the dollar had appreciated by more than 100% as
compared to the dirham.  In November 1984, the Bank agreed to cancel $25
million of the loan.  Furthermore, to accelerate disbursements (which at
that time were only 18% of the SAR estimates), the Bank ixtcluded the
priJect in the Special Action Program and extended the closing Guite (an
action to be repeated three more times).  By increasing the disbursement
percentage for civil works from 39% to 75%, the effect of the SAP was to
reimburse 80% of total project costs, net of taxes, for the period it
covered (November 1983 to June 1986). Ie 1987-88, the unforeseen devalua-
tion of the dollar, coupled with the years of delays in implementation
(which added four years of inflation to the cost of items resulting in a
10% cost overrun), made it impossible for the loan to finance the foreign
exchange costs of remaining equipment contracts.   At the Government's
request, the Bank agreed to allow disbursements of about $8 million worth
of equipment to be financed from unused funds under the Fifth Education
Project.
13.      Although the project called for a major expansion of the PIU, the
recruitment of additional technical staff was late in coming, and the unit
was slow in addressing the management and organization weaknesses to which
Bank supervision missions had called attention from the start (lack of site
supervision, inadequate arrangements for review of documerts, poor coordi-
nation between architectural and engineering firms). Supervision reports
speak repeatedly of poor morals among all PIU staff, pointing out partic-
ularly to the lack of motivation of the technical staff because of lack of
active participation and responsibilities. One can safely assume that the
understaffed unit was overtaxed by the complexity and the magnitude of the
project, and frustrated by budget constraints beyond its control.



-6-
VI.      Zroject kesults
14.      As the following paragraphs indicate, the project has, or will in
the near future, achieve what it was designed to do in terms of numbers and
types of facilities completed and in equipment. The concept of technical
lycees, however, must be reconsidered. These institutions were designed to
train technicians for immediate employment after completion of a three-year
program. But 701 of the candidates to the various options of the technical
baccalaur4at offered to LT seniors pass the exam and most of them go on to
enroll in higher education. In their first year of university, half of the
LT graduates drop out.  This is to be compared to the drop out rate for
other first year students which stands at about 30X. The passing rate to
the non-technical baccalaur6at is also around 302. Clearly, LTs fail as
durable stepping stones to higher education, which, in any case, they were
not designed to be, and are in high demand primarily for their
(artificially) high pass rate into the first year of university.   As
technician training institutions, they lack labor market links and overlap
with the technician level vocational training centers run by the OFPPT, the
agency responsible for vocational training in the Ministry of Public Works,
Vocational Training and Staff Training. Furthermore, the physical infra-
structure of LTs (in terms both of construction and equipment) points to
flagrant overdesign and resulting very low social rate of return.   Even
after target enrollments are reached, space standards in LTs will remain
above the standards for most higher technical education institutions in
Morocco, including several university schools, and well above those for
vocat onal training centers and will impact unfavorably on student unit
costs. Project design should have assessed more realistically the infra-
structure requirements for LTs. The absence of tracer studies on LT gradu-
ates (see para. 23) makes premature any decision on their existence. But
their justification as technical training institutions for immediate
employment in the current education/training environment in Morocco is, at
best, debatable.
15.      Physical Results.  With regard to the physical plant, the project
achieved what it was designed to do, even if additional construction (e.g.,
EMI boarding facilities, auditoria for ESTs) would have optimized project
accomplishments. The country now has at its disposal the physical facili-
ties that will permit the training of the needed technically qualified
personnel (middle-level technicians, higher technicians, and engineers) for
the foreseeable future - provided that additional financing can be made
available to eliminate bottlenecks, and to adjust to new needs.
16.      Buildings are in general of a pleasing and functional design.
Notwithstanding this general statement, it would appear that two insti-
tutions in Casablanca, the ENSEM and the EST (both higher education, both
covering similar engineering disciplines, both under the academic
numbrella" of the University Hassan II) have not been designed with a view
to achieve economies of scale . They have been built by the same archi-
tect, on one site, and yet they have each been provided with separate
refectories, kitchen, dormitories, libraries, administrative facilities
etc., whereas, conversely, not enough funds were left to construct an



amphitheater and/or to equip and stock the library.   Furthermore, both
schools are in the proximity of other higher education institutions. As of
now, the kitchens of both are unused. Instead, meals are supplied from the
kitchens of the nearby University Hassan II. One wonders why the Bank did
not object to such a design, although an architect participated in all
:---rvision missions in the first six years of implementation, when all
project institutions (except EHI and LT in Kenitra) were under
construction.
17.      The quality of workmanship is generally satisfactory. However,
there are exceptions: in at least one case, the electrical installation has
been done so poorly that one fatal accident has been attributed to it.
Building maintenance follows high standards throughout the different types
of project institutions when compared to other educational institutions.
Those high standards apply also to the maintenance of equipment in the
project institutions. Equipment becomes obsolete much more rapidly than
buildings, particularly in advanced technologies.   Hence, the need for
replacement of plant will be more accentuated for equipment than for
buildings.   The Borrower should ensure that adequate annual budgetary
allocations are available for equipment renewal and upgrading.   With a
reasonable amount of maintenance, the system should be able to retain its
present operational level for years to come.
18.      Ouantitative Results.  As shown in Part III, Section 5, the output
from project institutioas in quantitative terms does not yet measure up to
the targets set in the Loan Agreement. This is mostly explained by the
delays detailed in paragraph 11 and 12.   In addition, the Government's
objective has been, ever since project institutions reached operational
status, to maintain high levels of quality. In the short run, such a policy
militates against impressive quantitative results.
19.      In the LTs, enrollment in ten out of the total of eleven schools
has reached 54.4% of targets in the Loan Agreement.   The eleventh LT
(Kenitra) is scheduled for opening in the fall of 1989.  The contractor
responsible for its construction went bankrupt and the work was stopped for
two years.   However, the validity of this as a yardstick to assess the
project's success is hard to establish as enrollment figures are for 1988/
89, whereas target figures were in all probability meant for 1984, the
expected date of project completion. From 1985 - the opening year for the
first LTs - to 1988, enrollment has increased from 1,833 to 5,220.
Graduation last year stood at 55.2% of targets.
20.      In the higher education institutions, enrollment stands at only
al-ut one third of the target figures. These are institutions of an
entirely new type, still in the build-up phase. They are the only institu-
tions of their kind in the country. They produce technicians of a type not
yet known in the country and insist on maintaining the highest possible
quality, which they seem to do. The notable exception to the low enroll-
ment is ENSET at Mohammedia which stands at about two thirds of target
enrollment.



21.      Although EHI achieved a new status (see para. 23 for qualitative
results), a difficult picture emerges for that institution in quantitative
terms. The annual intake capacity stands at about one third of that fore-
seen in the Loan Agreement. It estimated the creation of 1,665 new places,
without spelling out how many of them would be student places/ research
places/up-grading training places (recyclage/formation continue). At the
present time, EMI provides the following type of activities: (i) engineer-
ing education at the under-grAduate level;   (ii) post-graduate studies
leading to the "doctorat d'etat";   (iii) up-grading training (formation
continue) for existing engineers; and (iv) international and/or regional
conferences/seminars in specific topics of the engineering sciences.   In
addition, a project to institutionalize the close cooperation with local
industries through the creation of a "parc de technologie" (facilities to
carry out R+D with and for local industries) is under active preparation.
Present student enrollment is 500. Intake is now after two years of higher
and special mathematics - similar to the French system - for which courses
are given in lycees; actual and anticipated enrollment figures are not
comparable, as the intake pattern has changed. Also, the assessment of
actual versus target utilization rates in such institutes of higher
learning, fulfilling a variety of functions including RI-D, is a highly
complex undertaking. Once EMI has expanded its boarding capacity, it will
raise its annual intake to a level that allows annual graduation of 300
engineers, 75X of the target figure in the Loan Agreement.
22.      In the LTs, the mechanics specialization is for male students
only, while the secretarial specialization is for females only . Enrollment
in other specializations is mixed.    Female participation is highest in
acc..Junting, and lowest in electricity. Overall, the female participation
rate (in all LTs of the country) is 33Z (68.5X in commerci"', 8.8X in
industrial specialization). The project has contributed to a higher female
participation rate by increasing the number of training places in speciali-
zations that are considered suitable for female students, although this
consideration may be viewed as too restrictive.   In the project's higher
education institutions, the female participation rate is reported to be
between 15 and 201.
23.      Oualitative Results.   It is regrettable that little qualitative
assessment can be made of a project after ten years of implementation. The
relevance of technical training can best be measured in terms of its
responsiveness to labor market needs, i.e., labor market outcomes for
graduates and suitable control groups of non-graduates.  In this case,
however, the tracer studies provided for in the project (see para. 9) have
yet to take place for any of the 16 project institutions. Implementation
of the project is running four years late. Among the 15 project institu-
tions created under the project, five LTs opened in the fall of 1985 and
graduated their first students in June 1988. Five additional LTs opened in
the fall of 1986 (Kenitra, the last LT, is scheduled for opening in the
fall of 1989), and will graduate their first students in June 1989. Three
higher institutions also opened in the fall of 1986 and either have
graduated their first students in June 1988 (EST Fes and EST Casablanca) or
will in June 1990 (ENSEN). ENSET, the technical teacher training college,



- 9 -
only accepts as many students as the country needs new technical teachers.
A tracer study may not be necessary since, by contract, all output is
absorbed in the teaching branch of the civil service. It is not clear why
tracer studies have not been carried out for EMI, the sixteenth project
institution, which existed long before the start of the project.   The
project, however,  can claim substantial success in that it enabled the
development of a new campus and assisted EMI in achieving a new status as a
research and development center of international importance.   EMI now
compares favorably with institutions that are engaged in work at the front
of modern technological developments.   Supervision reports are totally
silent on the issue of tracer studies. The Moroccan Government will
strongly be encouraged to carry out these studies and progress should be
monitored during the preparation of the Secondary Education Project (FY91).
It is all the more relevant now that the Minister of Education has recently
indicated that technical education continues to be a high priority for the
country and that he is considering requesting the inclusion of some tech-
nical training items (still unidentified) in the forthcoming Secondary
Education Project.
24.      All pre-investment studies financed by the project were carried
out in a timely fashion. Forty rural primary schools with workshops and
four secondary teacher training colleges focussing on science training were
included in the Fifth Education Project (FY82). The idea of a center for
coordinating and planning scientific and technological research was
abandoned.
VII.     Bank Perfomance
25.      One wonders if the Bank did not allow itself to be convinced into
accepting a bigger operation than it was comfortable with, all on the
grounds of justifiable items and homogeneity of intervention.   Project
files include numerous Bank memos questioning, at all stages of prepara-
tion, the size of the operation. The operation appears, with hindsight, to
have been so wide in scope that it was unmanageable within the timeframe
set.  Nowadays, the Bank is more concerned with "Christmas tree" projects
that attempt to tackle too many aspects of a sector or subsector.   The
issue here may not be one of homogeneity but of absolute number of
components.
26.      Preparation missions were well aware that the project might be too
heavy a load for the PIU. Project design provided for ample experts' ser-
vices and local support. This still did not ensure adequate PIU perform-
ance. The Bank has for many years revised its previous preference for the
establishment of separate PIUs.   It now advocates the strengthening of
institutional capabilities and reliance on existing organizational
structures for project management.   Thus, the Education Sector Reform
Program, which followed in 1986, worked with the existing Planning
Department of the Ministry of Education.



- 10
27.      Although the project was adequately supervised from the start in
terms of number and composition of missions, the Bank may have lacked
perspective in attempting to resolve the first ills of implementation (PIU
staff not hired, consultants not paid) as a project issue, by dealing
essentially with staff at the Ministry of Education, when these were
perhaps symptoms of a macroeconomic malaise (budgetary constraints, changes
in priorities in public spending) which should have been tackled with at
the country level. It is not clear whether any other action on the Bank's
part had been considered to alleviate the budgetary constraint (cancella-
tion of components, etc.). It seems unlikely, however, that the Moroccan
Government, who had so vehemently argued for a large operation, would have
agreed to a reduction in project scope.
28.      By 1986, project implementation was, for the most part, out of the
construction phase and supervision missions should have focussed more on
the qualitative objectives of the project, and on the execution of tracer
studies in particular. It appears, however, that this aspect was largely
ignored and that Bank staff devoted their attention to lingering problems
of equipment procurement.   In recent years, portfolio management has
increased the focus on the qualitative aspects of a project.
VIII.    Borrower Performance
29.      Borrower performance must be assessed at the country and the
project levels. PIU performance is covered in paragraph 13. The question
is to what extent was thJi3 unconvincing performance the result of exter-
nalities beyond the power of the Ministry of Education. One wonders if the
Moroccan Government, which approved such a large operation and argued at
length for it to be increased still further, ensured it enough political
commitment. a prerequisite for adequate funding sustained over several
budget periods.   From the very beginning, the project was plagued with
counterpart funding problems which slowed down the delivery of work by
experts, contractors and suppliers, and jeopardized the performance of the
understaffed PIU. The issue of adequate budgetary allocations has been a
pervasive problem in Morocco, in the education sector and others.
Particular attention must be given in th_ future to ensure that any
Government approval of a new operation carries with it the budgetary
commitment necessary to a successful implementation. The Target Investment
Program agreed by the Borrower and the Bank under the Structural Adjustment
Loan (in execution since December 1988) should facilitate the translation
of political commitment into adequate budgetary allocations for priority
investments in selected sectors.
IX.      Consultina Services
30.      Architects.   The project comprised the construction of 15 new
buildings and extension of one, and the responsibility for architectural
designs and plans were assigned to 10 different local firms. The perform-
ance of these 10 firms was, in general, adequate with some remarkably good



- 11 -
designs (LT Marrakech, EMI Rabat) and some others with different problems
such as: inadequate orientation of laboratories (ENSEN Casablanca,) poor
location of the administrative block which makes difficult the control of
the school operation (ENSET and LT Settat), inadequate design of windows
and poor ventilation in boarding areas (ENSET).
31.      Contractors.  All but one contractors have completed or almost
completed the works satisfactorily.   In the case of the Kenitra LT, the
firm went bankrupt and a new contractor was assigned to complete the works.
As a consequence the unit cost of this LT was about 60% higher than the
average unit cost of the other LTs.  In general contractors were slow to
complete the works, with up to 3 years of delay (LT of Kenitra and exten-
sion of ENI).
32.      Equipment Suopliers.   Equipment for LTs has been supplied in
adequate quality and quantity, although users expressed the view that not
all suppliers were providing equipment of equal quality. As to the
equipment of higher level institutions, equipment procured under the first
batch of deliveries was sometimes found to be less than fully adequate.
Fortunately, this could be compensated through a second batch of deliveries
for which the specifications were elaborated with active user partici-
pation. Remaining inadequacies of equipment, in particular at EMI are due
to lack of funds.
33.      Technical Assistance.  Users of project institutions expressed the
view that TA did not produce the aspired results, and that it would have
been better to involve the users in detailed project implementation work
earlier on.   This is hard to verify at a point in time when the PIU
responsible for project implementation has ceased to exist.
X.       Project Documentation and Data
34.      The Loan Agreement included an Exhibit in the Project Description
SchedrLle listing estimated targets for each project institution in terms of
gross areas in square meters for academic and communal areas and for board-
ing facilities, total new academic and boarding places, and annual intake
and output. The document is silent as to when these targets were to be
reached (presumably by the end of the project).   At project completion,
none of them have been attained (see paragraphs 18-22). One would think
that such figures would best be included in the Staff Appraisal Report,
which in fact listed less detailed targets.  The targets were listed as
estimates in the Loan Agreement, and thus were not meant to be adhered to
as obligations in the legal sense.
XI.      Project Sustainability
35.      The LTs financed by the project offer markedly better structures
and equipment than the older institutions already in place before the start
of the project. The Government is now considering phasing out these older



- 12 -
facilities in order to maximize utilization of the newer LTs.   Concen-
trating enrollment in these structures would expose many more students to
state-of-the-art equipment and better trained instructors. Until such time
as the issue of relevance of training and employment perspectives for
graduates is resolved, the new LTs offer a higher quality of the kind of
training the Government is still committed to offer.
36.      The various higher technical education institutions financed under
the project will facilitate the training of middle- and higher-level
technicians and engineers for years to come.  The allocation of adequate
recurrent budget to these institutions remains the immediate concern. the
relevance of training to the labor market will have to be assessed in the
new future.



- 13 -
PART II
The enrollment targets set by the 1973-1977 five-year plan were largely
exceeded.
In fact, in primary education, the enrollment rate of seven year old
children rose from 422 in 1972 to 56X in 1977/78 (the target set by the plan
was 52X).
For secondary education, the average annual growth rate was 12X.
Nevertheless, in the second cycle, the percentage of students oriented
towards technical streams did not grow markedly over previous years.
Moreover, vocational schools under the Ministry of Education (MEN) were
not successful in drawing the sufficient numbers of secondary education dropouts.
The Fourth Project (1681 MOR) was therefore aimed at developing all
levels of technical education:*
-    at the primary level, by pre-investment studies for 40 primary schools
whose construction and equipping would be carried out under a Fifth
Project (2149 MOR;
-    at the secondary level, by the construction and equipping of 12 schools;
-    at the post-secondary level by the construction and equipping of two
institutions and the expansion of the Mohammedia Engineering School in
Rabat.
Loan 1681 MOR for US$113 million concluded on April 15, 1979 became
effective on October 16, 1979. The original closing date was set for March 31,
1989.
The project was designed to increase the capacity for training middle
and higher technicians, engineers, and technical teachers and to develop the
"introduction to technology' program in general secondary schools.
This approach was reflected by the project's components:
I.       Physical Components of the Project
The Project included the following elements: (for details, -ee
Annex 1).
Part A. Construction Furniture and Eguipment.
1. Constructin
Eleven technical lycees %ere built throughout the country, along with



- 14 -
the Mohammedia Technical Teacher Training School, the Casablanca Practical
Engineering School, the two post-secondary institutes of technology (ESTs) in
Casablanca and Fez and expansion of the Mohammedia Engineering School in Rabat.
(a) 11 technical lycees
Of the 11 technical lycees (TLs) planned under the Project, ten were
built and are now operating, and one is still under construction
(Kenitra).
However, the ten lycees open since 1985 are still running below their
capacity of 660 students who would be going on to either higher
education or the labor force. Although there is some question as to
whether it may have been preferable to phase the construction over two
or three projects (while making investments in other schools), it is
clear that the new technical lycees benefited se-ondary education, and
the experience should bc replicated and expanded.
(b)  Mohammedia Technical Teacher Training School - (Ecole Normale SuD6rieure
d'Enseiznement Techniaue de Mohammedia -- ENSET
Completed and open since 1985, this school trains lower-secondary
teachers in the general education system and upper-secondary teachers
for the technical lycees. The multi-disciplinary technical training
provided at ENSET will enable the Ministry of Education to expand
technology training in the lower-secondary cycle and provide the TLs
with the necessary elements for the development of the education system
as practiced in the industrial countries.
(c)  Casablanca   Practical   Engineering   School   (Ecole   d'Ingenieurs
dDA&olication do Casablanca - ENSEM)
Under the original project, ENSEM was to have the capacity to train 190
engineers per year.
Since its opening in September 1986, the school has been converted into
the School of Advanced Studies in Electricity and Mechanics, which
trains high-level government engineers in those two fields.
(d) Two post-secondarv institutes of technology in Casablanca and Fez
These two higher-level institutes provide training for direct access
to the labor market. Having opened their doors in September 1986, their
two-year programs following the baccalaureat produce higher-level
technicians who can immediately enter the labor force as engineers and
researchers for consulting firms, manufacturing, and industrial
operations and help improve production methods.
Admission to the Casablanca EST is based on a competitive examination
open to candidates who have earned technical baccalaureats at schools
in Casablanca Wilaya and the southern provinces, while the Fez EST is



- 15 -
open to those who have obtained their bagcalaur6at in Fez or the
northern provinces.
This has been a positive step towards decentralization, which, moreover,
is the object of a joint study of planned similar post-secondary
establishments.
(e)  Expansion of the Mohammedia School of Engineering in Rabat
The target is to increase the school's capacity to an average of 1,000
students. The expansion has not yet been completed. A large portion
of the new premises opened in September 1988.
This expansion will make the school, at which refresher and continuous
training centers are planned, the largest engineering school in Morocco.
2.       EguipLeng
The equipment for all the newly built schools was financed by the Loan.
The equipment was of two types:
(1) Furniture and office equipment which, with few exceptions, was the same
for the 14 schools; only the number and sometimes specifications changed
depending on the size of the school and the users, e.g. typewriters
with printer for the EMI, standard typewriters for the technical lycees.
We have no comments on either quality or price regarding this category.
(2) Special equipment, whose selection required very diverse technical
know-how. Some lots were common to several schools, while others were
specific to one or two. For example:
(a)   The lots or lathework/milling, industrial design and computer
equipment were the same for the technical lycees ENSET, EIA, and
the two ESTs;
(b)   The "fluid mechanics" and solarimeter lots were specific to the
EMI;
(c)   The chemical engineering lot was specific to the two ESTs.
Aided by the consulting firm engaged for technical assistance, we were
able to identify and enumerate the equipment needed by the schools.
Despite the experience we were able to acquire and the documentation
we were able to put together, the selection of this equipment posed a
number of problems, which will be raised in the section devoted to
difficulties in project implementation.
Part B: Technical Assistance and FellowshiDs
Two types of technical assistance were planned:



- 16 -
(a) For the technical lycees. ENSET, the 2 ESTs and EIA, technical
assistance consisted of supervision of equipment installation, suitable
training for local technical personnel with a view to the use and
maintenance of that equipment, and the preparation of practical work
programs in workshops and laboratories via some 20 man/years of
services. For the technical lyc6es, training abroad for technicians
in equipment maintenance was planned (16 man/months of fellowships).
After the loan became effective, an international search was used to
select the consulting firm to provide that technical ass.stance. The
joint and several awardees were the "Groupement Interprofessionnel de
Formation, d'Orientation et de Perfectionnement" and "Ecole Sp4ciale
des Travaux Publics: Quaternaire Education" of France.
(b)  Regarding the expansion of the DEI, after an unsuccessful international
search, direct shopping led to the signature of a contract on December
20, 1984 with the University ot Liege, following a proposal by the
management of the school.
Part C: Pre-investment Stueto%
The preparation of a future project includes in particular the
construction of rural primary schools, training of science teachers (ENS)
in order to respond to the needs of the second cycle of secondary education
and the architectural drawings for a future National Coordination and Planning
Center for Scientific and Technical Research. (CNCPRST).
However, although all the studies were carried out, they did not produce
the expected time savings in physical construction (see completion report for
the Fifth Project).
II.      Accounting Components
The accounting situation at March 31, 1989 was as follows:
Loan amount -   US$113 million
Amount cancelled-US$25 million
Situation at March 31. 1989
Category of                  Original Amount           Amount
expenditure                  Allocated (US$)          Disbursed         Available
Construction                  38,200,000           38,740,479.74       540,479.76
Furniture and equipment       40,400,000           44,514,311.01    4,114,311.09
Techtical assistance and
fellovships                    1,800,000            2,219,789.21       491,789.21
Expert salaries                1,400,000            1,026,054.34       373,945.66
Unallocated                    6,200,000                    0        6,200,000.00
Total                          88000,000           86,572,634.25      11,720,2.72



- 17 -
III.         IfWSLA1    Ctg==e
The Bank will be evaluated from two standpoints, namely procurement
and disbursement.
1.      !Procuremgnt
International competitive bidding was held to select the civil works
contractors and equipment suppliers with which HES concluded contracts. All
contracts were submitted to the Bank for approval, giving it in effect both a
priori and a posteriori control.
In this respect, the administrative procedures regarding the flow of
documents should be simplified, as they can delay contract execution and decision
making. In fact, the current procedure confines the borrower to the role of
intermediary and may be felt as interference with its prerogatives.
Moreover, two standard specifications models should be developed, one
for construction and the other for equipment, in order to facilitate the approval
process and reduce contract performance; only technical specifications would
change depending on the nature of the contract and needs.
2.       Paymens and disburements
2.1
The Bank established two special procedures that largely facilitated
project implementation:
-   direct payments
-   revolving fund (special account)
2.1.1    Direct payments
Procedure III Involving direct payments is the ideal solution for paying
expenditures in foreign exchange. However, the exchange rate for direct payments
poses some problems.
The Ministry of Finance, which oversees the disbursements and requests
for reimbursement, should keep the accounts in foreign exchange, reflecting
fluctuations in the exchange rate for the local currency. MEN is responsible
for keeping accounting records of the loan in dirhams.
2.1.2   SAecial Account
This procedure was introduced to accelerate withdrawals under IBRD
loans, consisting of advances renewable every four months to cover cash
requirements.



- 18 -
To implement this procedure, a special project account was opened with
the General Treasury.
2.2      Disbursments
The Bank sets a single date for the closing of the accounts of a project
(of course, after the closing of the project itself). Nevertheless, that date
does not take into account the basic distinction between construction and
equipment. Although the closing for disbursements can 8e met if the deliveries
are made on time, a Bank-imposed closing on construction disbursements cannot
be met, for reasons such as supply difficulties and work-site shutdowns owing
to inclement weather or payment delays by the General Treasury.
The disbursement period should therefore be based on the nature of the
service; for construction, the closing date for disbursements should take into
account at a minimum the date of provisiznal acceptance   The retention money
can be converted into a bank bond.
IV.      Difficulties in Proiect Imlementation
A.       Introducti
The difficulties in project implementation stem from the nature and
scope of the components.
The construction alone of a technical lycAe gives rise to numerous
problems regarding both architectural and equipment considerations.
Because of the lack of experience of the staff of the Planning
Department, as well as, those from MEN's Secondary Education Department, it was
necessary to use consulting firms, which sometimes abused the confidence that
MEN had placed in them.
Moreover, those consulting firms had no experience with similar
projects, and it was felt necessary to seek assistance abroad, which had an
impact both on project infrastructure and cost.   The HEN gave them no
instructions on school design. (For construction, the special conditions of
contract allowed supplemental works not originally envisaged, advances disguised
in the form of works carried out, items recovered subsequently from the work-
sites.   For equipent and in particular specialized equipment, overestimation
of needs, technicslly out-of-date specifications, etc.).
B.       MEN's Performance
1.   Executing Agency of the Projiet
When the Bank makes a loan, it requires that the borrower establish an
entity responsible for the monitoring, coordination and supervisior.
associa.ed with the management and implementation of Bank-financed projects.
Thus, with a view to efficiency and ensuring that the project has



- 19 -
maximum chances for success, a project unit was established in 1972 under the
General Secretariat of the Ministry of Education.
Subsequently, the increase and complexity of its tasks led to its
reorganization into the Education Projects Department, which ls now responsible
for overall implementation of financed projects.
The project unit provides lialson with IBRD. keeping it abreast of all
information regarding project implementation.
It maintains close relations with the Economic Affairs Department under
the Prime Minister for Coordination and Implementation of Financed Projects.
The functions of the Education Projects Department are multiple and
depend on the number and scope of the objectives set. They are reflected in its
powers and structure.
(a) tructure
The Education Projects Department has three offices:  Studies    and
Construction, equipment, and accounting.
(b)  ResgMn ibilftes.
Several phases must be completed before a project leaves the drawing
board and becomes reality. To that end, the role of the Projects Department is
to:
-    identify all projects involving construction or expansion of
general or technical schools for which external financing can be
secured;
-   organize competitive bidding for constructior and procurement of
equipment;
-   oversee the acceptance of buildings and equipment and their
installation;
-   commit and pay the expenditures associated with the school
construction and equipping;
-   keep accounting records in accordance with current Moroccan
regulations.
(c)  aevelg=nt
From the time of its establishment until 1986, the former Education
Projects Department grew steadily.  The increase in education projects had
triggered an expansion in the tasks to be carried out and the need for more
staff.



- 20 -
However, a lack of integration of that Department in the MEN's
organization chart, high turnover of personnel, (most of whom were civil
servants), a lack of motivation among staff (administrative managers, architects,
etc.) and the existence of similar objectives and powers within the MEN''s
Planning Department all led to the idea of annexing the Education Projects
Department to the Planning Department.
The Education Projects Department has thus merged with the Sclool Equipment
and Construction Division of the Planning Department for Primary and Secondary
Education.
That body is now responsible for wrapping up the Fourth and Fifth
Education Projects and overseeing The Education Sector Reform Program.
Three years later, in early 1989, on the insistence of the financial
agencies, the Education Projects Department was reorgar.'zed into a Financed
Projects Division under the administrative umbrella of the Planning Department
with one major difference, which was to pass physical implementation of the
projects onto DECS' and to maintain oversight of project implementation and
financing.
C.       Constructin
All project components relating to construction were carried out with
the exception of the Kenitra Technical lycee, whose completion was slated for
June 1989. Regarding construction in general:
1.       Significant delays in construction
None of the schools were completed on schedule.   A comparison of
notification dates and execution periods and provisional acceptance dates shows
that the average delay in construction was greater than two years, and in some
cases, more than six years (Kenitra technical lycee: 76 months).
One reason for the delays was that the contractors did not have
sufficient working capital of their own to carry out the projects properly. The
least payment delay by the General Treasury caused work-sites to shutdown for
different periods that were authorized by the consulting firms, which had to
issue stop-work and re-start orders in order to avoid any delay penalties for
the firms. Solutions should be worked out to put an end to such practices.
2.       Defects ' woxkmanshi
Although completed, several schools have defects regarding water
tightness, electricity, water supply, and cracking that are very costly to MEN's
budget to repaLr. Despite the ten-year guarantee, none of the contractors has
responded to formal notifications to repair the defects.
' School Equipment and Construction Division



- 21 -
The MinLstry of Education will have to appraise the damages and issue
claims against the delinquent firms.
3.       Architectural asgects
The architectural drawings used the same layouts and similar floor plans
for several buildings. When several identical 1.!-ijects are awarded to a given
architect, he may make minimal efforts to differentiate among the projects. In
most cases, a single design was used for several projects, e.g. the Casablanca
and Fez ESTs, Oujda, Beni-Mellal, and Kenitra technical lyc6ss.
Most of the architects did not pay due attention to optimal use of the
land. As a result, expansion of the schools may pose problems in the future.
4.       Intens_ye HER of subcotractLnu
All projects were submitted in the form of a single lot.
The size of the projects, as well as, their construction costs led the
contractors to use subcontracting for secondary lots. Thi8 caused multiple
problems regarding both quality and delays, not to mention the impact on the cost
of the projects.
D.       Foregmuang=, the difficulties in project implementation involved the
internal organization of the Projects Department, procurement and contract
performance.
1.       L=rnenal orgAnLzation
In general, a lack of accountable, qualified and motivated personnel
is the major factor in the project equipment component. For example, one staff
member was for a long term solely responsible for equipment procurement, without
being kept informed of the quantitative and financial components as a whole of
the Fourth Project. These latter were the private domain of a UNESCO expert.
After the departure of that expert (mission completed), the position
remained vacant, undermining the monitoring of the Fourth Project by a dearth
of information and coordination.
As a remedy, in the future, information must be disseminated to all
levels and permanent contacts established among the various parties involved in
the project through periodic briefings or decision making sessions.
The lists of equipment by type of project component should be prepared
in conjunction with the users in order to avoid subsequent claims and especially
the purchase of ill-suited equipment.
2.       Procurement
The award of a contract to the lowest bidder certainly guarantees



- 22 -
substantial savings in procurement of equipment, but has the drawback of having
a single supplier awarded several contracts (Name deleted).
In this specific instance, problems with one contract can cause problems
with others. Diversifying the sources of supply is necessary and reflects MEN's
independence vis-&-vis its suppliers.
-  Awarding an equipment contrect on the basis of the rule of the
lowest bidder violates the quality/price rule.  Testimony to
this is borne by the contracts concluded with (Name deleted).
In fact, all users unanimously fell that (Name deleted) deli-
vered equipment that was technologically obsolete, incomplete
equipment which to this day it has not been possible to use,
and equipment incompatible with the contracts and which (Name
deleted) has not yet replaced.
3.     PZhsical contract Derformance
Beyond the problems related to non-compliance of certain clauses of
the specific conditions of contract, delivery deadlines, commissioning and
testing of certain equipment, contract performance under the Fourth Project ran
into two other difficulties not envisaged at the outset, namely customs duties
and implementation of the VAT.
Regarding customs duties, a special exemption was granted for equipment
entering under the UNESCO convention.
As for the VAT, the problems were settled on a case-by-case basis
(request for exemption authorization depending on the nature of the equipment).
Lastly, the lack of vehicles posed a major obstacle for the Education
Project Department in getting to the delivery sites for acceptance of the
equipment and verifying conformity on-site.
As the problem could not be resolved, the Education Projects Department
called in the users. Contract payment was based on delivery slips bearing the
inventory number and signed by the users.
V.      Achievement of Project Obiectives
The quantitative objectives of the project were not completely achieved.
Although the schools were all built, with the exception of the Kenitra technical
lycee, they are all operating below their real capacity.
It is nevertheless premature to pass judgment on whether or not the
project objectives were achieved beyond:
-   enrollments of students channeled towards the technical lycees
increased owing to the opening of 11 lycdes in October 1985;



- 23 -
-    technical teacher training through ENSET;
-    start training/employment activities through the ESTs.  The first
class (June 1986) was favorably received by employers, according
to their directors.
In any event, a very in-depth study of the impact of the Fourth Project
from teaching and vocational standpoints will be undertaken.
Conelunionn
The project was responsible for an increase in the number of technical
schools that enabled enrollments to rise and consequently resulted in a greater
percentage being channeled towards the technical and commercial streams.
The Fourth Project enabled technical education to break out of its
'under-developuent" and rise above being the poor cousin of the education system.
Nevertheless, other projects need to be financed if technical and
commercial education are to reach the level recommended by the national
development plan.



- 24 -
ANE 1
Prolect School Data
Approximate Student  Total no.    Total no.  Estimated  Estimated
gross area  lodging  of new        of new     annual      annual
No. Locality     (m2)       (estim-  places       places      number of  number of
ated in               (student   students   graduates
(m2)                 lodging)   admitted
(a) Technlcal 4ycees
1 Agadir         9,180      3,253        880         520         288        275
2  Marrakech     9,180      3,253        880         520         288        275
3  Safi          9,930      3,572        976         580         320        310
4  Beni-Sellal   9,180      3,253        880          520        288        275
5  Settat        9,180      3,253        880         520         288        275
6  El-Jadida     9,930      3,572        976         580         320        310
7 Noammedia    10,640    13,572          976         580         320        310
8 Kenitra        9,180      3,253        880         520         288        275
9  Sidi-Kacem    9,180      3,253        880         520         288        275
10  Tanger        9,930      3,572        976         580         320        310
11  Oujda         9=930     ._5Z2         96          5                      3
Total       105,440    37,378      10,160       6,020       3,328      3,200
(b) Nohammedia Regional
Technical Teaching
Center
Total       7,530     4,316         660         450         250        240
(c) Ecoles Superieurs
de Technologie
13  Casablanca    8,500     4,161         576         432         288        275
14  Fes                                                            U 500  42.i 
Total        17,000      8,322      1,152         864        *576        550
15
(d) National
Engineering
School of
Casablanca   11,590      7,162        768         768         200        190
16
(e) Expansion of the iohau_edia
Engineering School
in Rabat     32,500                 1,665                     500        400



- 25 -
LART II
Statistical Information
1. Related 8ank Loans
Consistent with Government needs and priorities, Bank lending in
education and training has evolved from an initial focus on reinforcement
of general primary and secondary education - with the exception of direct
support through small project components for manpower training in the
sectors of forestry (Second Education Project, FY71), and health, tourism
and rural development (Third Education Projects, FY76) - to its current
emphasis on reinforcing employment-oriented skill training (First and
Second Vocational Training Projects, FY86 and FY87), and on introducing
structural reforms to improve the efficiency, financial viability, and
employment orientation of education at all levels (Education Sector Reform
Program, FY86, and Rural Primary Education Project, PY89).
2. Pr*oect TiMetable
Date          Date
glane         actual
-Identification                         March 77
-Preparation                            June 77
-Appraisal Mission                      Feb. 78
-Loan Negotiations                      Sept. 78
-Board Approval                         10 Apr. 79
-Loan Signature                         25 Apr. 79
-Loan Effectiveness                     16 Oct. 79
-Loan Closing             31 Dec 84     30 June 88
-Loan Disb. Completion    30 Jun 85     31 Mar. 89
The loan closing date was extended four times and an additional
three months were added to the standard six month disbursement grace
period, resulting in an overall project implementation overrun of 65%.



- 26 -
3.  Cumlative lKstimated and Actual Disbursements
Yl3              im  Am 1 m  m98              an 1 m  im  1m  ml am  1m
Apprala
Estimte          0.2   4.9   29.2  84.4  110.0  113.0 -
Actual            0.0   0.1   0.2   5.3   17.5  22.9  37.0  53.0  67.6  75.6  67.5 (b)
Actual as 2
of Estimate      --   O0    OX    62    162   20X
Actual aS 2 of
revised loa
.moulmt                                                  421   602   77S   S6S   99S
a)Loan munt reduced to 48 million in November 1984.
(b) $0.5 million we" cacelled at the closlig of the books in April 1989.



- 27 -
4. Prolect Costs and FP&nan'Ab
A. Project Costs
(US $Million)
Ampraisal Estimate                   Actual
Foreign                     Foreign
Local  Exchange  Total     Local  Exchange  Total
Costs  Goats     Costs     Costs  Costs      Costs
Construction                78.5    47.3    125.8       40.0    33.0      73.0
Equip. & Furn.               8.3    54.3      62.6       8.2    43.0      51.2
Professional Fees            9.6     1.7      11.3       5.0     1.1       6.1
Experts' Svs & Fellowships  0.0      1.8       1.8        .0     2.2       2.2
Unallocated                  1.2      1.2                --- _
Total                      103.6   113.0    216.6       53.2    79.3    132.5
B. Project Financing
OrLginal                  Actual
i of   a of                % of   % of
Categgg                 MUSS;M   IBR      IAL       US       IflD   TOL
1. IBR
Construction                  47.3    42%                39.1    45%
Equip. & Furn.                54.3    48%               45.0    51%
Professional Fees              1.7     2%                 1.0     1%
Experts' svs & Fellowships    1.8      2%                 2.4     3%
Unallocated                   7.9 -.                    -z1.-.    0
Total IBRD                   113.0   100%    52%         87.5   100%     66%
2.  Government               103.6           Aft        45.0 i4L
TOTAL (1+2)                  216.6          100%        132.5           100%



- 28 -
5.   Prolect Results
A. Total New Places and Annual Output in Lveees Techniques
Total New Places
Lycde           Enrollment            Boarding          Annual Output (c)
est.(a) actual      est.   actual        est.   actual
Marrakech          880    423          520    304           275     92
Sidi Kacem         880    515          520    462           275    132
Oujda              976    539          580    429           310    140
Safi               976    731          580    371           310    403
El Jadida          976    600          580    414           310    176
Beni Melal         880    473          520    385           275    148
Agadir             880    502          520    233           275    157
Settat             880    451          520    293           275    114
Mohaimedia         976    587          580    402           310    198
Tanger             976    706          520    287           310    205
Kenitra*(b)        880      66         520     --           275     --
TOTAL          10,160  5,693        6,020  3,580         3,200  1,765
Actual as X
of Estimate                56                 59                   55
(a)   Estimates per Exhibit to Schedule 2 of Loan Agreement.
(b)   to open in September 1989.  Data in actual column reflects
enrollment targets for academic year 1989-1990.
(c)   candidates presenting themselves to the Baccalaur6at; of the
1,765 candidates, 1,237 passed (- 70.11).  The number of
candidates is relevant as even those who fail in the
examination can be usefully employed on account of their
technical know-how.



- 29 -
B. Enrollment in Lycees Techniques by Specialization
LvC6e         Secret.,  Acet,    Meehan,   Electr.    Enics    Chbemist-
85   88   85   88   85    88   85   88    85   88   85   88
Marrakech     15   59   27   83   55   147   16   63    21   71   -    -
Sidi Kacem    32   94   31   ?9   53   166   21   70    25   86   -    -
Oujda          8   68   24   81   66   152   24   72    21   79   30   87
Safi          33   78   35   91   60   145   24   74    24   84   31   81
El Jadida     32   68   32   86   64   162   24   68    24   71   32   82
Beni Melal    24   90   24   84   60   160   24   69    24   70   -    -
Agadir        31   92   36   105  66   153   25   78    23   64   -    -
Settat        31   79   30   91   59   145   22   61    21   67   -    -
Moliammedia    31   90   32   88   66   163   25   75    27   78   35   95
Tangers*      31   82   32   204  54   133   25   77    27   76   28   84
Total  85     268       303        663        206        237       156
Total  88          800      1,012      1,526       707        746       429
TOTAL  B5                              1.833
TOTAL  88                              5.220
Kenitra 89**    32         32         54            24         24
* plus 52 students in plastic arts (transferred)
** enrollment targets for next academic year
COMMENT:  The Loan Agreement foresaw a total of 10,160 new places (9,280 if
one excludes Kenitra) in LTs. At a utilization rate of 75X, this
would correspond to an enrollment of 7,620 (6,960) without
Kenitra). Hence, the actual enrollment is so fer only 75X of the
aspired one.   Significant differences exist with regard to the
utilization of general teaching facilities and specialized ones
(laboratories and workshops) - the latter ones having a higher
utilization.



- 30 -
C. InCrmental Enro;uuent in Higher Education Institutions
Iner. Enrollment   Actual as    Boarding Places    Actual as
Institution     Est-(a) Actual        a of Est,  Est.(a      It of Est,
EST Fes               576      199         34         432        178         41
EST Casablanca        576      179         31         432        154         36
ENSET
Nohammedia          660      444         67         450        420         93
ENSEM
Casablanca          768      225         29         768        225         29
EMI Rabat           1,665        0          0            -         -          -
(a) No. of new places per Exhibit to Schedule 2 of Loan Agreement.



-31 -
6. Stats of Caovaents
Description
of Covenant              Source          Discussion
1. Borrower shall employ    Section         A part time electrical
one electrical/mecha-    3.01 (c)         engineer and a part time
nical engineer in PU                      mechanical engineer from
on or before 15 July                      ENI were hired 18 months
1979.                                     late to review designs
bid documents related to
the specialties.
2. Borrower shall           Section         All project institutions are
establish advisory       3.06            participating members of the
councils with strong                     Regionsl Upgrading Councils
industry representa-                      ('Conseils rdgionaux de
tion six months after                    perfectionnement") chaired by
opening date of                           representative of local
institutions included                    employers' sector.
in Point A(a) through
(d) of the project.
3. A tracer system shall    Section          The Center for Planning
be devised-for each      3.07 (a)         & School Guidance has been
project institution                       designated to provide trained
at least 12 months       Section          staff at provincial delegation
prior to the scheduled   3.07 (b)         level for follow-up of LT
opening date of each                      graduates.  For higher education
Institution and shall                    institutions, Ministry of
be maintained for five                    Education plans to use existing
years following the                       national system.  See paragraph
graduation of the first                   22 of Part I for compliance with
graduates (a).                            tracer study covenant.
4. Borrower shall appoint   Section          Directors of all project
the director of each     3.08 (b)        institutions were appointed
project institution at                    as of mid-1985   Five institutions
least 12 months prior                    opened in fall of 1985.  Nine
to opening date.                         opened in fall of 1986.  Kenitra
LT will open in fall 1989.
EKI existed before the project.



- 32 -
5. Heads of departments     Section          Heads of Department were
in the project institu-  3.08 (b)        appointed in all project
tions in Point A (b),                     institutions.
(c) and (d) shall be
appointed at least 9
months after opening date.
6. Within one year of the   Section         Min.Ed.Di-ectorate for
opening date of each     4.03 (b)         Education has prepared an
institution, prepare                     equipment maintenance
and submit to the Bank                   programme in collaboration
a maintenance programme                  with staff of project
for the complex                           institutions.  As for Higher
equipment of each                         institutions, they have
institution.                             organized their own equipment
maintenance schemes and
facilities.
7. Highest priority will    Supplemen-      Required teachers have been
be given to foreign      tal letter       recruited. Fellowship
teacher recruitment      to Loan         programs and institutional
and the award of         Agreement        twinning with France, Canada,
fellowships to Moroc-                    Belgium, etc. have resulted in
can personnel in bila-                   progressive Moroccanization of
teral technical assi-                    staff.
stance agreements
between Morocco and
other countries.



- 33 -
7.    Use of Bank Resources
A.  Staf  Zuts
(Staff woks)
stage of         To ead
ProZLct Cycle       (     n7n(a)    Q 8   2         PY84   m5   FY86  wtB  FY88  FY89  zn
To Appraisal
Departure       35.5                                                                       35.5
Appraisal
through
Board Approval  35.3                                                                       35.3
Board Approval
throush
Xffeotivenexs   16.4                                                                       16.4
Supervision      2.3L    11.   U_j  _LA   16.0             ILt  .9 L4   .0A   _.5  __6  9IL0
89.3     11.8  11.6   8.2  16.0  11.7  11.9   3.4   6.0   4.5   8.6  183.2
(a) Data prior to Yt-9 is no longer available by year.



- 34 -
B.  ank Lissiom
Stages of                       No of      Days in  Specialization   Performance
PrIQ1 _gy&le         onthZQ yaX  Persons    field    represented       rating
Identification      3/77        1          13        GE
to Appraisal        5/77        2           7        EC. GE
Appraisal through   2/78        4          25        EC, TE(2),AC
Board Presentation  10/78       1          15        AC
1/79         1         9         AC
Board Approval
through
Effectiveness       6/79        1          11                          2, M, T
Supervision         10/79       1          10        AC                2, M, T
5/80       3          25        TE, AC, GE       2, X, T
2/81       2          18        AC, GE           2, M, T
6/81       4          18        AC, GE, FAC      2, M, T
12/81       3          16        AC, GE, EC       2, M
3/82       2          5         CH
6/83       4          15        TE(2),EC,GE      2, M
8/83       1          10        AC               2, M
4/84       3          15        EC, AC, PLN      2, N
8/84       2           5        EC, AC           2, M
11/84       3          10        EC, TE, PLN      2, M
5/85       3          10        EC, TE, PLN      2, M
1/86       2          14        TE(2)            2
1/87       1           6        TE
11/87       1          17        PLN
11/88       2           6        PLN,EC
LEGEND:   CH - Chief or Deputy Chief of Division, EC - Economist,
GE - General Educator, TE - Technical Educator,
AC - Architect, PLN - Planner.
T - technical problems; M - management problems,
2 - "stable" status of problems
NOTE: Time in field may include work on other projects.



- 35 -
AN=IR
PIOECT IIPLENENTATION SCHEDULE
(original and actual)
1978  11979  I 1980  I 1981  11982          1983  I 1984   1985  11986  j 1987      1988
Site$.. ..                                I        I .               I                 I        I        I        I        I
1_1     ~ ~~ 1                  1I   I    I           I        I        I        I        I 
Architectural drawini .            I                 I       I        I        I        I        I        I        I
nd Bid Oocuments         I                          |        |        |
Constrution biddinr                   . . . .                   |                                  | . |.
Construction period   |            i       |            *-                    - . .                       |. .
I         I        I       1 I
Furniture/Equipmet   I   ................             
Lists & Bid Documsnts |            ._u  r                             I        I        I        I        I        I
Furniture/Equipment                      .....................
Biddihg Process         |          |       |        I                                   I        I        I        |
Furniture/Equipment   |           |        |        |      . . - -.-------|
Manufacture/Dellveringi            I        I       I        I -          |
_________________________                                               I                       I  I  I                       I  
......... Original
_     _a~u  Actual main Activities
......... Actual minor Activities



- 36 -
Evolution of the Exchan=e Rates
Dirhmam - US Dollar
At Appraisal            09-1978     US$ 1 - DH4.10
Period Average             1979    US$ 1 - DH3.79
1980    US$ 1 - DH3.94
1981    US$ 1 - DH5.12
1982    US$ 1 - DH5.98
1983    US$ 1 - DH7.11
1984    US$ 1 - DH8.79
1985    US$ 1 - DH9.96
1986    US$ 1 - DH9.08
1987    US$ 1 - DH8.32
1988    US$ 1 - DH8.16



