Document of                     E
The World Bank.                   L
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rep w No. P-2496-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
ITERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
March 27, 1979
I 1b             re.t  i a   biedibtom  ad may b wed by reciwpmt oX y In he perfobmance of
their cO(lal dutis lb etent my mt dhewise e diclosed witho Wod Bank andtowrton.



Currency Equivalents
US$1.00    =    DH 4.1
DH 1.00    -    US$0.24
Fiscal Year:       Calendar Year



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
MOROCCO
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:           US$113.0 million
Terms:            20 years including 5 years of grace, at 7 percent per
annum.
Project
Description:   The project is part of the Borrower's program to meet
Morocco's urgent manpower needs through the expansion
of secondary, and post secondary technical education
and technical teacher training. It would consist of:
(a)  Construction, furnishing and equipping of 11 tech-
nical lycees (secondary schools), a technical
teacher training college, two higher institutes
of technology, an institute of applied engineer-
ing and an extension to Mohammedia Engineering
College. The proposed institutions will create
10,160 new places for training middle level tech-
nicians, 660 for technical teacher trainees, 1,150
for higher technicians and 2,430 for engineers;
(b)  Technical assistance associated with the project
items and for strengthening the Project Implementa-
tion Unit in the Ministry of National Education; and
(c)  Pre-investment designs.
The project faces the normal risks associated with a
project of this magnitude and complexity, including
the risk of delay in recruiting expatriate teachers
as set out in the Government's staff recruitment plan.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii 
Project Costs:                                           Costs              % of
Local  Foreign  Total   Project
----…US$ million-----    Costs
11 technical lycees                          41.4    45.9       87.3      57.3
1 technical teacher training college         3.4      3.5       6.9       4.5
2 higher institutes of technology            8.4      9.2      17.6      11.6
1 institute of applied engineering           5.9      7.9      13.8       9.1
extension engineering college               11.3    11.8       23.1      15.2
pre-investment designs                        1.6     0.3       1.9       1.2
technical assistance for:
experts and fellowships                    0.2      1.0       1.2       0.8
project implementation unit                  0.1      0.4       0.5       0.3
Subtotal Base Cost                      72.3    80.0    152.3    100.0
Contingencies:
physical                              7.2      7.9     15.1       9.9
price                                24.1    25.1      49.2      32.3
Subtotal                       31.3    33.0       64.3      42.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST            103.6   113.0    216.6
Financing Plan:                                         US$                 %
(million)
IBRD                                     -        113.0        52.2
Government                            103.6          -         47.8
Estimated Disbursements:                             US$ million
FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84
Annual                          0.6   10.9   47.8   42.2   11.5
Cummulative                     0.6   11.5   59.3  101.5  113.0
Rate of Return:            Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal            "Fourth Education Project in the Kingdom of
Report:                  Morocco" (No. 2094-MOR) dated March 19, 1979



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE KINGDOM OF
MOROCCO FOR A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Kingdom of Morocco for an equivalent of US$113 million to help
finance a fourth education project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including five years of grace, with interest at 7 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Country Economic Memorandum on Morocco" (1473-MOR)
was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1977. An economic mission
which visited Morocco in February/March 1978 was followed by a basic economic
mission in November 1978. A basic economic report is under preparation;
preliminary findings and conclusions of these missions are reflected in the
following paragraphs. Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex I.
Recent Developments
3.        In 1977, Morocco completed the return towards a constitutional mon-
archy. Having marshalled a strong national consensus over the Western Sahara
issue, King Hassan II called municipal, provincial and national elections
between November 1976 and April 1977. Opposition parties with platforms
stressing social reform scored strongly in municipal elections in the larger
cities, while at the provincial level, rural constituents supported Government
candidates, who eventually obtained a majority of 141 seats out of 264 in the
National Assembly. With the new Government formed in October 1977, both the
Istiqlal party which had been in the opposition since 1963, and the Mouvement
Populaire whose main support is in the Berber population returned to political
responsibility. The new Cabinet was appointed with the mandate to prepare
and implement economic austerity measures, the first of which were introduced
in the 1978 Budget Law, and to pursue the social development objectives
set out in the 1973-77 Development Plan.
4.        Morocco's economic and financial situation became increasingly
unbalanced towards the end of the 1973-77 Plan. Rapid growth of investments
and imports, carried over from 1974-75 when phosphate export revenues reached
an all-time high, and despite some Government restrictions did not slow down,
while the world demand for Morocco's main exports, especially phosphate,
recovered only moderately. At the same time, efforts to increase budgetary
savings were insufficient to meet the continued increase in investment and
military expenditures. As a result, in 1977 Morocco faced again a large
resource gap (21 percent of GDP) and overall budget deficit (19 percent of
GDP). To cover these, it sharply increased external borrowing to $1.9
billion (commitments), from $909 million in 1976 and $780 million in 1975;



- 2 -
most were from commercial sources. Despite these borrowings, the country's
net foreign assets stayed at a low level (1.2 months of 1977 imports by
year's end). On the domestic side, external borrowings fueled monetary
expansion which remained rapid in 1977; consumer prices rose 12.5 percent
over 1976 compared to about 8 percent in the previous 2 years.
5.        By and large, the new Government has succeeded in regaining control
over the excessive increases in investment and external borrowing experienced
towards the end of the 1973-77 Plan. Investment has since been reduced by
an estimated 25 percent in real terms, and so has external borrowing which
at $1.3 billion of new commitments was, however, still large and mostly on
commercial terms. The Government has achieved these improvements through
budgetary austerity, including severe cuts in public investment, restraint
in current spending and some tax increases; it applied selective import
restrictions and controls on private credit preserving as much as possible
the growth momentum of private sector output and exports. A good agricultural
crop in 1978 helped sustain growth, despite a sharp decline in construction
activity largely resulting from cuts in public investment plans; overall, GDP
grew by an estimated 4 percent in real terms in 1978.
6.        The Government will have to pursue austerity policies for a while,
considering the continued excessive resource gaps and low exports and savings
which cannot be increased quickly for reasons largely beyond the Government's
control. Instead of the 1978-82 Plan, the Government has introduced a three-
year interim plan (1978-80) which was approved by Parliament in December 1978,
together with the 1979 Budget Law. Its main objectives are to further reduce
the budget and current balance of payments deficits, and to concentrate avail-
able resources (after meeting defense requirements) on productive projects,
education and health, especially in so far as these benefit the neediest
population groups. Implementation of major public projects not meeting these
criteria has been postponed, while the measures designed to preserve growth in
the private sector have been strengthened. Recently, the Government agreed
with the IMF on a short-term financial rehabilitation program for 1979. This
program calls for continued limitation of budgetary expenditures, domestic
credit expansion and new external borrowing, while maintaining selective
import restrictions and credit controls favoring productive private activi-
ties. It is aimed at reducing the overall budget deficit by 15 percent, and
narrowing the current balance of payments deficit by more than 30 percent.
Assuming harvests are equal to 1978 and phosphate exports increase by 6 per-
cent in quantity and 7 percent in value, real GDP growth in 1979 again may
still not exceed 4 percent. Gross official reserves would stay around 1.5
months of imports.
7.        While the interim measures may be effective in re-balancing the
economy, because of the short-term constraints on exports and savings, they
might cause a rise in social pressures. The Government is therefore anxious
to resume the more dynamic social policy stance which characterized Moroccan
development during the 1973-77 Plan. Preparation of the 1981-85 Plan has
begun and attention is being given to long-term reforms which are needed if
an early resumption of more rapid economic and social progress is to be
achieved.



Economic Development Issues and Prospects
8.        Bank projections summarized in Annex I reflect the Government's
keen concern to avoid a liquidity crisis in the next two to three years.
They assume sharp policy adjustments to keep the economy on a financially
viable growth path over the long run, but also reflect the desire to maintain
adequate GDP and employment growth during the interim period, and to achieve
further progress towards the country's social objectives. The projections
show that investment and GDP growth will have to be curtailed for the next
two to three years, given the constraints on savings and exports. In this
period, Morocco will need substantial capital transfers from abroad on terms
as favorable as possible to sustain the project investment and GDP growth.
Beyond 1982, export prospects should enable Morocco to resume more rapid
growth of investments, output and employment while progressively reducing the
relative burden of debt and debt service.
9.        Following the large windfalls in foreign exchange and domestic sav-
ings caused by high phosphate prices in 1974-75, the investment target was
raised to meet cost increases, permit some real expansion of original invest-
ment programs, and undertake large capital-intensive projects geared to import
substitution (in particular sugar, chemicals, shipping and steel). Thus the
GDP growth target for 1973-77 was nearly met, and investment rose to nearly
32 percent of GDP in 1977 from less than 14 percent in 1972. In the process,
Morocco built up its capacity to prepare and implement projects not only in
traditional sectors such as irrigation, import-substitution industries and
physical infrastructure, but also in new and more difficult sectors such as
rainfed and small-scale agriculture, export industries, and socially-oriented
programs. There is little doubt that Morocco can achieve the investment
levels assumed in the Bank projections, the main constraints being domestic
savings and foreign exchange availability.
10.       Domestic savings have been falling in relation to GDP after the
brief increase during the phosphate windfall years, mainly due to low public
savings of only 4.7 percent of GDP in 1977. Successful efforts to raise
public revenues to 28 percent of GDP in 1977 were offset by increases in
current spending, partly for education and health, but particularly for
price subsidies and military expenses. Tax reform measures (which are being
prepared with IMF assistance) and unpopular price policy decisions, such as
reduction of subsidies to urban consumers, farmers and industrial investors,
will be required to increase public savings. Interest rate adjustments to
reflect changes in the rate of domestic price inflation would also be called
for.
11.       During the 1973-77 Plan period, exports rose by less than 2 percent
p.a. in real terms (the Plan target was 10 percent). This lackluster per-
formance was largely due to weak external demand for Morocco's main export
products since 1974, especially phcsphate, other minerals and agricultural
products. Moreover, with some exceptions, such as textiles, export produc-
tion and marketing efforts were not sufficient, and new markets were not
aggressively sought; Morocco continued to depend on demand from the EEC,
especially France. Yet, it has considerable export potential if only products



- 4 -
and markets were diversified. Export programs are now under preparation
particularly for phosphate and its derivatives, fresh and processed food-
stuffs, and tourism. With regard to phosphate, for example, Morocco and
the USSR signed agreements in March 1978 under which Morocco will export
phosphate rock and phosphoric acid for the next 30 years for possibly up
to 10 million tons per year by 1985-86; in return, the USSR will lend
Morocco up to $2 billion on favorable terms to develop its phosphate export
capacity and will export various commodities and goods to Morocco, including
crude oil. These agreements substantially improve Morocco's long-term
prospects for phosphate exports.
12.       While the emphasis on completion of high-return projects will have
to continue, Morocco should shift away from highly capital-intensive, import
substitution investments, as well as from some ambitious programs for phys-
ical infrastructure. This would call for improvements in policy planning and
investment programming.  Consultants are currently completing a major study
on industrial investment strategy, which should facilitate better investment
selection. A changed investment pattern should reduce the external resource
gap, and also contribute to higher growth and employment at lower investment
and import costs than in recent years.
Social Development Strategy
13.       Comparatively slow economic growth and employment creation up
to the early 1970's were accompanied by widening income disparities and a
decline in real consumption for the weaker sections of Morocco's population.
As a major objective, the 1973-77 Plan set out to reverse these trends.
The Government's strategy since 1973 has emphasized: (i) acceleration of
employment creation; (ii) measures aimed at reducing income disparities; and
(iii) specific investment programs to benefit the least favored population
groups.
14.       Progress has been made towards these objectives, as witnessed by
the increased expenditures for social sectors (from DH 1.3 billion in 1972
to DH 3.7 billion in 1977). However, the institutions created to meet social
sector objectives are in many cases still fragile. Understaffing, weak policy
analysis and inadequate program formulation are common. As a result, public
programs to improve productivity, collective amenities and social services
are reaching relatively small proportions of the population, especially in
rural areas. In addition, during the period of financial stringency ahead,
Morocco will not be able to sustain the current level of expenditures in
socially-oriented sectors, and cuts have been made as part of the measures
to re-balance the economy.
15.       With the population growth rate now at about 3 percent, pressure
to provide adequate social services will rise. Despite short-term financial
constraints, efforts will be needed to limit such growth. Consequently,
strengthening health and family planning services is now an integral part of
the Government's social objectives.



-5-
External Debt and Debt Service
16.       Morocco sharply increased external borrowings after 1973 (para. 4).
Nearly all of the increase came from Arab and commercial sources. With a
hardening of terms on new commitments, average maturity dropped from 19 to 10
years and average interest rose from 5 to 7.5 percent between 1974 and 1977.
Morocco also drew on the IMF automatic credit facilities in early 1976, and
obtained about US$70 million in IMF compensatory financing in August 1978.
From the low levels in 1974-75, Morocco's external debt has risen rapidly to
an estimated $4.0 billion (disbursed only) at the end of 1978, and in that
year debt service amounted to $481 million (18 percent of exports and workers'
remittances). As a result of recent and projected borrowings, debt and debt
service may be expected to increase further, and debt service may exceed 25
percent of exports and workers' remittances by 1980-82, and decline progres-
sively thereafter. The country's net foreign assets would remain at a rela-
tively low level. Because of the expected upswing in debt service, external
debt management has become more restrictive and selective since 1978. If
debt service is to stay manageable, Morocco will have to continue this policy
over the next few years. Additional commercial borrowing should be limited,
and efforts should be increased to seek loans on softer terms. Yet, external
borrowing needs would be sizeable. Beyond 1980-82, however, the situation
should progressively improve with the Government firmly controlling domestic
demand and with good long-term prospects for exports and, in particular, with
assured sales of phosphate rock and derivatives. Morocco should therefore be
considered creditworthy for further Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
17.       Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 38 projects, financ-
ing a total of $918.9 million (net of cancellations), of which $755 million
has been lent since the beginning of FY73. IDA credits, totalling $50.0 mil-
lion, have been made available for five projects. A Third Window loan for
$25 million for the third education project was approved in March 1976. IFC
investments have amounted to $12.6 million ($10.5 million after cancellations,
terminations, repayments and sales). Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of February 28, 1979, and
notes on the execution of ongoing IBRD/IDA projects. In some cases, delays
in project implementation have been caused by management or procurement
difficulties, and in 1974 cost overruns increased due to the upsurge in
investment activity in Morocco and the acceleration of inflation. Overall
performance in project execution, however, has considerably improved in recent
years. Total disbursements as of December 31, 1978, amounted to 72 percent
of original appraisal forecasts and to 78 percent of revised forecasts.
18.       Past Bank Group lending has been concentrated in the agricultural
and industrial sectors, which have accounted for 32 and 34 percent respec-
tively of total net commitments; the balance is represented by utilities (18
percent), tourism (8 percent), roads (5 percent), education (4 percent) and
urban development (2 percent). Apart from the transfer of resources to



-6-
Morocco (Bank Group gross disbursements amounted to 5.5 percent of total fixed
investment in 1970-74), the main objectives of lending were to foster and
strengthen development institutions, provide technical assistance especially
for project preparation, and increase productive capacity, in order to improve
the balance of payments.
19.       While these objectives remain, greater emphasis is being given to
prepare projects that support the Government's policy of fostering social
development and improving income distribution. An increasing share of Bank
Group lending will be devoted to projects directly or indirectly developing
the productive capacity of the lowest urban and rural income groups and
meeting their basic needs, including, possibly, Bank participation in the
Government's program for promoting integrated regional development, which is
under discussion.
20.       Past lending for agriculture has supported irrigation development,
credit and, through a first operation in FY75, improvement in the produc-
tivity of rainfed farming. Continued selective lending for irrigation is
envisaged but emphasis will be increasingly given to support small farmers
and the development of rainfed areas. The Fez-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Proj-
ect, approved in June 1978 was the second, after the Meknes Project (Credit
555-MOR) to directly address these objectives with the added advantage of
being located in the favorable cereal producing zone. An integrated rural
development project, including livestock/forestry development, is under
preparation in a rainfed zone in northern Morocco, as are projects aimed at
extending agricultural credit to farmers and at developing production, mar-
keting and processing of vegetables on small holdings. A Government program
for promoting integrated regional development is also under discussion.
21.       Projects in industry and tourism have had as key objectives increased
foreign exchange earnings or savings and the improvement of sectoral policies,
which have taken on increased importance in view of the country's short-term
resource constraints. The eighth loan to Banque Nationale pour le Developpe-
ment Economique (BNDE) which was approved in 1977, included a pilot small-
scale industry component to promote labor intensive investments. The present
project follows up on this pilot effort. The loan to Maroc Phosphore made in
1978 will help increase Morocco's foreign exchange earnings. Continued lending
for industry through the BNDE is contemplated as well as further lending to
Credit Immobilier et Hotelier (CIH) for tourism development.
22.       Previous lending for utilities has consisted of one loan for water
supply, two loans for power and one engineering loan for the preparation
of a sewerage project for Casablanca. A follow up project for water supply
and distribution in urban centers, including distribution to low income urban
consumers, is under preparation, as are a sewerage project in Agadir and a
village electrification project.
23.       Education continues to need attention to ensure Morocco's manpower
development. Two credits and a loan have been made to develop secondary
education and teacher training, to improve technical and vocational training,



and to expand facilities in rural areas. The proposed fourth project, with
its emphasis on technical education, will serve to meet Morocco's critical
manpower needs in both commerce and industry.
24.       The recently approved Rabat project was the first Bank-financed
project in the urban sector. Follow up projects are under consideration to
support the Government's program for slum upgrading and urban development
through the provision of basic infrastructure, housing and social services
and the creation of employment opportunities.
25.       Loan commitments from multilateral and bilateral official sources
to Morocco rose from $221 million in 1975 to $296 million in 1976, and dropped
from $831 million in 1977 to $370 million in 1978. Major sources of aid were
France, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, the U.S., Germany and the Bank Group. At the
end of 1978, the Bank Group's share in Morocco's outstanding and disbursed
external public debt was 11.2 percent. The share of the Bank Group in debt
service was 24 percent in 1976 and declined to 18 percent in 1977, and 9.5
percent in 1978. By 1983 the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding and in
debt service are expected to be about 25 percent and 12 percent respectively.
III. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Introduction
26.       When Morocco became independent in 1956, the government inherited
an education system ill-suited to the task of modernizing Moroccan society and
its economy. In the past decade, however, efforts have been made to develop
an education system relevant to Morocco's needs. Education policies have been
directed towards expanding primary education, moroccanizing the teaching ser-
vice, gradually introducing Arabic as the language of instruction, increasing
the relevance of the secondary curriculum through expansion of science and
technology courses and developing secondary and higher education to meet the
country's requirements for skilled manpower. While progress has been made in
meeting these objectives, much remains to be done.
27.       The education system comprises five years of primary schooling, a
four year lower and three year upper secondary cycle and up to six years of
higher education. Specialization begins at the upper secondary level where
students choose among humanities, science, technical subjects and primary
teacher training. Vocational courses are also available in specialized
training centers operated by the technical ministries. Higher education is
undertaken in three universities, of which Mohammedia V in Rabat is pre-eminent
with 58 percent of total enrollments, and in about 20 other post-secondary
institutions controlled by the technical ministries. Private schooling is
available at the primary and secondary levels but accounts for only 3.8 per-
cent and 7.6 percent of total enrollments respectively.



28.       Administration of the education system has been strengthened
recently with the amalgamation of the Ministries of Primary and Secondary
Education, and Higher Education to form the Ministry of National Education
and Training. This brings policy formulation for the whole formal education
system under one minister who is served by two secretaries of state. The new
ministry also contains a directorate of training which will coordinate the
post-secondary training activities of other ministries. At the commune level,
the policy of giving more responsibility for the management of primary schools
to local government authorities will ensure a closer relationship between
education and social environment.
Issues and Problems
29.       The pressures of rapid population growth (3.0 percent p.a.) on the
demand for schooling together with the need to meet the country's increasing
demand for skilled manpower has led to the rapid expansion of the education
system in recent years. During 1971-77, primary enrollments increased at 6
percent p.a., secondary enrollments at nearly 10 percent p.a. while enroll-
ments in the universities increased 3.5 times. Gross enrollment ratios have
now reached quite reasonable levels for a country at Morocco's stage of
development, being 65 percent for primary (7-11 years), 21 percent for lower
secondary (12-15 years), 11 percent for upper secondary (16-18 years) and 4
percent for higher education.
30.       This rapid expansion of enrollments however has been accompanied by
significant qualitative problems. The internal efficiency of the education
system is low. Despite improvements in recent years, repeater rates are still
high, 31 percent in primary and 16 percent in secondary. Examination success
rates are low with only 33 percent passing the secondary entrance exam and 44
percent receiving the baccalaureat. These deficiencies are caused by a number
of factors including socio-economic pressures for early termination of school-
ing, irrelevant curricula, lack of textbooks and teaching aids and, at the
primary level in particular, language problems and a shortage of quality
teachers.
31.       The continued widespread use of French as the language of instruc-
tion together with the slow rate of arabization of the curriculum have posed
serious problems within the school system. The introduction of French in
grade 3 and its increasing use thereafter has raised learning difficulties
for children from poorer homes who lack contact with the language outside the
school environment. This in turn has contributed to increased repeater and
dropout rates. The difficulties faced in producing textbooks and teaching
aids in Arabic as well as teachers capable of teaching in the language have
held up arabization in both primary and secondary levels, although in the
former, the teacher service is fully moroccanized. At the secondary level,
arabization has commenced in non-technical subjects but progress will continue
to be hampered in science and technical courses by the lack of textbooks in
Arabic and the high proportion of non-Moroccans (35 percent) in the teaching
force.



- 9 -
32.       Problems of equity are also substantial in the education system where
marked disparities in educational opportunity exist by sex and region. These
reflect traditional social attitudes which discourage the enrollment of girls,
particularly in rural areas, and a bias in the allocation of educational
resources in favor of the urban areas which are more easily serviced and where
demand for schooling is more strongly articulated. The proportion of girls
enrolled in primary schools was only 36 percent of total enrollments in 1977.
33.        In a country striving for modernization through economic growth and
social progress, the education system is markedly lacking in relevance to the
task. At the base, primary education has a strong literary bias which is
similarly reflected in the secondary schools and universities. About 75 per-
cent of teaching time in primary schools is devoted to literary subjects
compared to 16 percent for arithmetic and 1 percent for science. In the
lower secondary cycle about 60 percent of teaching time is devoted to humani-
ties but an attempt is being made to increase the practical orientation of
learning through the progressive introduction of a course in the principles
of technology. Within the upper cycle of the general secondary schools,
considerable progress has been made in recent years in altering the pattern
of enrollments in favor of science/technology at the expense of humanities but
achievement is still somewhat short of expectations. Enrollments in science/
technology and humanities in 1977 were 51 percent and 49 percent respectively
compared to plan targets of 56 percent and 44 percent. Technical lycees which
offer an upper cycle secondary technical course enroll only one student for
every 13 in general secondary schools.
34.       Manpower shortages, particularly in technical fields, have acted
as a serious constraint to economic and social development. At the higher
levels, shortages have been alleviated by the employment of large numbers of
expatriates but this is merely a temporary and costly expedient and should
not obscure the urgent need to develop local sources of manpower supply.
Development of higher education has favored the universities (1977 enrollments,
45,000) rather than the higher institutes of technology (6,000). Furthermore,
within the universities, enrollments have grown with little regard to skilled
manpower needs, and currently 77 percent of students are enrolled in law and
humanities compared to 9 percent and 1 percent in science and engineering
respectively. In terms of graduates entering the labor market in the past
five years, 61 percent have come from the faculties of law and humanities.
At middle and lower skill levels, the training infrastructure is inadequate
with only some 20,000 trainees enrolled to service the needs for craftsmen,
rural extension agents, health auxiliaries and hotel workers. The output of
the training system is currently meeting only about one-third of estimated
requirements for these types of skilled manpower. In addition vocational
training suffers qualitative deficiencies resulting from a shortage of trained
instructors, equipment and teaching aids. Particular attention needs to be
given to expanding pre-employment training for the unskilled and poorly
educated because of its impact on poverty groups.



- 10 -
Education Policy
35.       The shortcomings of the education system are well understood in
Morocco and in recent years education policies have been increasingly well-
conceived and more relevant to long-term objectives. The enrollment targets
of the 1973-77 plan were exceeded in the primary and secondary schools,
although in the latter the planned shift of enrollments from humanities to
science was not achieved (para. 33). Enrollment targets in teacher training
colleges were also exceeded although it now seems that primary teacher
requirements were underestimated and a rapid expansion of capacity will be
needed in the next few years. Progress towards reducing repeater rates at the
primary level has been slow and secondary repeater rates are still slightly
higher than Plan targets.
36.       Education policies for the future will continue to be directed to-
wards the long term policy goals of: a) generalization of primary education;
b) arabization, particularly in the more difficult science and technical
courses; c) moroccanization, which is complete at the primary level, 73
percent in the lower secondary cycle but only 45 percent in the upper cycle.
The goal of full moroccanization in the lower secondary cycle by 1980 is
likely to be achieved in view of the satisfactory numbers graduating from
lower secondary teachers' colleges while progress in the upper cycle will
depend upon the success with which university graduates can be attracted into
teaching and the proposed development of a system of four-year secondary
teachers' colleges; and d) skilled manpower development.
37.       Pursuit of these policies would in the short-term continue to place
a significant burden on the economy. Recurrent costs have risen rapidly in
recent years due mainly to increases in teachers' salaries (which constitute
85 percent of recurrent expenditures) including salaries of expatriate teachers
which are considerably higher than their Moroccan counterparts. Total expendi-
tures on education and training currently amount to about 6.3 percent of GNP,
which is high for a country at Morocco's stage of development. Furthermore,
given the high priority of education in Morocco's development strategy, it is
likely that education expenditures will remain above 6 percent of GNP in the
next decade. The Government is well aware of this however, and is seeking to
secure a more stringent control of costs and to increase efficiency. Moreover
in the long-term, mofoccanization, by gradually reducing the proportion of
expatriate teachers, is expected to reduce recurrent expenditures.
Bank Group Assistance for Education
38.       Bank Group lending in the education sector (two credits and one
loan) has been consistent with the Government's objectives. Consequently,
the twin themes underlying lending for education have been manpower develop-
ment and the qualitative improvement of education, including greater access
at primary and secondary levels. The first credit ($11 million in 1965)
financed construction and equipment for 18 secondary schools to help meet the
country's needs for middle level manpower, enlarge the supply of potential
inputs to post-secondary training institutions and improve the quality of
secondary education through the provision of properly equipped laboratories
and workshops. The second credit ($8.5 million in 1971) continued the emphasis



- 11 -
on qualitative improvement through the financing of seven teachers colleges, a
pedagogical research institute, science laboratories for six secondary schools
and the supply of laboratory and workshop equipment for another 10 technical
and 13 commercial schools. The credit also supported manpower development
through assistance for training in forestry. The third project (a loan for
$25 million in 1976) is continuing support for manpower training in specific
priority sectors (agriculture, health and tourism) and also focusses on
improving the relevance of the secondary curriculum through financing five
secondary schools which would emphasize science and technology courses. To
enlarge primary education opportunities in rural areas and increase the
relevance of the curriculum, the loan is also financing 47 primary schools in
poorer rural areas with an experimental practically oriented curriculum.
39.       Implementation of education projects in Morocco was characterized by
poor performance in the beginning followed by a gradual improvement to today's
satisfactory performance. The first project suffered delays caused by policy
changes which affected designs and equipment lists and weak decision making
caused by the diffusion of responsibility among three ministries responsible
for education. Implementation was in the hands of part time officials in the
ministries who were unable to devote sufficient time to the project. Cumber-
some disbursement procedures also contributed to the delay. These problems
resulted in the closing date being extended by four years. Following the
creation of a separate project implementation unit with permanent staff as
specified in the second credit agreement (1971), implementation gradually
improved. Procedures were simplified, inter-ministerial coordination improved
and as project unit officials became more experienced in Bank procedures and
requirements, implementation problems declined and the second project was
completed satisfactorily in late 1978. The third project (1976) is proceeding
well, and prospects for the efficient implementation of the fourth project are
good.
IV. THE PROJECT
Project History
40.       The proposed project was identified in part during the appraisal of
the third education project in 1975 and expanded in subsequent discussions
between the Bank and Government. Technical assistance was provided under the
third loan to finance partial preparation of pre-identified components. Bank
pre-preparation missions visited Morocco in June and October 1977 and a
Moroccan preparation mission came to Washington in November 1977. A Unesco
mission assisted in project preparation in January 1978. The project was
appraised in February/March 1978. Negotiations were held in September 1978
with a Moroccan delegation led by Mr. H. Belkoura of the Prime Minister's
Office. Slow progress in design development necessitated further Bank mis-
sions in November 1978 and January 1979 and has led to a delay in finalizing
project documents.



- 12 -
Project Objectives
41.       The proposed project would:  (a) establish the first Moroccan
technical teacher training institution for the expanding system of technical
lycees designed to produce middle level technicians; (b) provide training of
teachers for the "introduction to technology" course in the lower secondary
schools which aims at increasing the practical content of the secondary
curriculum; and (c) significantly increase the supply of higher technicians
and engineers to help meet urgent manpower needs and allow for the progressive
replacement of expatriates in line with the Government's policy of rapid
growth, modernization and self-reliance.
Project Description and Content
42.       The project consists of:  (a) construction, furniture and equipment
for 11 technical lycees, a technical teacher training college, two higher
institutes of technology, an institute of applied engineering and an extension
to Mohammedia Engineering College; (b) technical assistance associated with
the project items and for strengthening the Project Implementation Unit in the
Ministry of National Education; and (c) pre-investment designs.  The proposed
institutions will create 10,160 new places for training middle level techni-
cians, 660 for technical teacher trainees, 1,150 for higher technicians and
2,430 for engineers. Details are summarized in the following paragraphs and
in the Loan and Project Summary. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report,
Fourth Education Project in the Kingdom of Morocco," No. 2094-MOR dated March
19, 1979, is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
43.       Technical Lycees.  The 11 technical lycees would offer three year
industrial and commercial courses at the upper secondary level (grades 10-12).
The courses are designed with specific reference to the needs of industry and
commerce for middle-level technicians and it is expected that a majority
(85-90 percent) of graduates would seek such employment with the remainder
entering higher technical education. The project would more than double the
current capacity of the technical secondary school system and eventually pro-
duce 2,180 engineering technicians and 1,020 commercial technicians per year.
All courses are open to women but relatively few are expected to enroll in the
industrial options. A much more significant female enrollment is anticipated
in the commercial courses, especially those preparing for secretarial work.
Boarding for about 6,000 students is being provided under the loan reflecting
the need to serve students from poorer homes and to draw inputs from beyond
the centers of population in which the institutions are to be located. These
locations reflect both the government's policy of decentralizing educational
training opportunities in accordance with regional development needs and the
specific regional needs of industry and commerce for technicians.
44.       Curricula respond to the need for practical preparation of tech-
nicians and to balance adequately laboratory and workshop programs and
theoretical studies. The industrial course offers four options (industrial
production, design, electrotechnics and electronics). In five schools an



- 13 -
additional option in industrial chemistry is provided to serve the regional
need for technicians in the chemical industry. The commercial course offers
options in accountancy and secretarial studies.
45.        Regional Technical Teacher Training College.  This institution would
train teachers for (a) the course on "introduction to technology" given in the
lower cycle of general secondary schools, and (b) the expanding system of
technical lycees. The "introduction to technology" course was instituted
during the 1973-77 plan as part of the policy to place greater emphasis on
science and technology in general secondary education. Teaching of the course
is currently restricted by a shortage of technology teachers who are being
trained in inadequate facilities at Casablanca. It is intended that the
course be extended to all general secondary schools to provide two hours of
instruction per week in each of the four years of the lower cycle. For tech-
nical lycee teachers, no formal training currently exists in Morocco. Of the
present stock of nearly 600 technical teachers, about 60 percent are expa-
triates and the Moroccan teachers are recruited directly from industry or
from university graduates who have completed a one-year course at the Ecole
Normale Superieure. The proposed training college would provide a two-year
course for lower cycle technology teachers and a three-year course for upper
cycle technical lycee teachers. The two-year course would enroll 180 students
who would study technical and general subjects and teaching methods. The
three-year course would enroll 480 students who would take a year's common
course followed by specializations in one of the six options offered in the
technical lycees 1/. Entry to both courses would be by means of an entrance
exam for holders of an appropriate baccalaureate. All courses and options
would be open to women but it is expected that significant female enrollment
would be achieved only in the secretarial option. Annual outputs of about
155 technical teachers would be sufficient to staff two or three new technical
lycees per year and in addition would allow for the progressive replacement of
expatriates. Boarding for 450 students would be financed under the loan.
46.        Higher Institutes of Technology.   The two higher institutes of
technology would provide a two year course for higher engineering technicians.
The institutes would be located at Casablanca, Morocco's largest industrial
city and at Fes, a center for the textile industry which is also near the
oil and sugar refining industries located around Sidi Kacem. Each institute
would enroll 576 students and offer specializations in mechanical, electrical,
electronic, civil and chemical engineering. Curricula adequately reflect the
needs of industry and provide an acceptable balance between practical and
theoretical studies. Entry to courses would be by examination open to suit-
able baccalaureates. All courses would be open to women and a target female
enrollment of 20 percent has been set. Boarding for 432 students in each
institute would be financed under the loan. The permanent teaching staff at
the institutes would be reinforced by part-time faculty drawn from industry
who would be expected to play an important teaching role and serve to develop
links with local enterprises.
1/   No specific training is offered for industrial chemistry because the
number of teachers is small and would be drawn from industry or the
universities.



- 14 -
47.       National Institute of Applied Engineering.  This institute, located
at Casablanca, would provide a four year program for "ingenieurs d'applica-
tion." These are engineers with a practical orientation who are closely
involved in the production process and supervise the work of technicians.
Their training must provide technical knowledge and skills combined with suf-
ficient theoretical knowledge to implement decisions and make independent
judgments in an operational setting. The ingenieur d'application provides
the link in the technical manpower structure between the research/design
engineer (ingenieur d'Etat) and the practical work undertaken by technicians.
The program would extend over eight semesters of sixteen weeks, each of 32
hours. It would offer a common first year followed by engineering specializa-
tions in civil, electrical, mechanical and metallurgy. Entry to the program
would be open to scientific and technical baccalaureates and persons with
equivalent qualifications. The goal for female enrollment has been set at 20
percent, but it is unlikely to be achieved in the first few years of operation.
Boarding for 768 students would be financed under the loan. In addition to
the permanent faculty, it is expected that part-time faculty drawn from indus-
try and government agencies in Casablanca would make an important practical
contribution to the teaching program.
48.       Mohammedia Engineering College Extension.  The Mohammedia Engineer-
ing College, established in 1960, is Morocco's major institution offering the
five-year "ingenieur d'Etat" program. The "ingenieur d'Etat" is a full profes-
sional engineer whose training is oriented towards design, planning, research
and management. Training for such a function must impart a high degree of
technical and theoretical knowledge as well as an understanding of socio-
economic and environmental issues to develop a broader viewpoint and enable
the engineer to make decisions that extend beyond purely technical considera-
tions. The five-year program at Mohammedia extends over 10 semesters of 15
weeks, each of 32 hours, and offers four engineering specializations (civil,
electrical, mechanical and mining) with 12 options. Curricula are well
balanced providing for a common course during the first two years which
emphasizes mathematics, science and languages, with the last three years
well-adapted to actual engineering practice and including social science and
management subjects. Entry to the course is by means of a selection committee
process open to scientific and technical baccalaureates and others with equiv-
alent qualifications. The goal for female enrollment is 20 percent and on
current trends this seems feasible; women comprise 13 percent of enrollments
in first year in 1977-78. Current enrollment is 535, and under the project,
enrollment capacity will be expanded to 2200. The site for the extension is
part of the existing campus. Additional boarding accommodation would be
provided by the government.
Advisory Councils
49.       To ensure that training offered by the new project institutions is
relevant to labor market needs and to strengthen the links between the insti-
tutions and employers, the government has agreed to establish an advisory
council for each new institution representative of local industrial and
commercial interests within six months after opening date (draft Loan Agree-
ment Section 3.06).



- 15 -
Technical Assistance
50.       In view of the Government's intention to seek bilateral assistance
for the recruitment of expatriate teaching staff and the provision of teach-
ing fellowships, technical assistance to be financed under the loan would be
restricted to experts to assist the institutions during the crucial start-up
period and additional experts to strengthen the Project Unit. A total of 28
man-years of such assistance would be provided at an average cost of $6,500
per man-month. For the institutions the main need (20 man years) is for
course/equipment specialists to supervise the installation of equipment,
train local operators and prepare workshop teaching programs.  To cope with
the additional workload of the proposed project, the project unit will be
strengthened through the provision of 8 man-years of expert services for an
engineer and an architect (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b)).
Pre-investment Designs
51.       The project would finance pre-investment designs for the develop-
ment of a standard workshop design for rural primary schools, secondary
teacher training colleges which would focus on science training and a proposed
national center for coordinating and planning scientific and technological
research.
Project Cost and Financing
52.       Total project cost is estimated at about $217 million of which about
$113 million is foreign exchange. Physical and price contingencies (10 per-
cent and 32 percent of base cost estimates respectively) would amount to $64
million or 29 percent of total project cost. These estimates assume that all
civil works contracts will be awarded to local or locally established mixed
firms, about one half of the furniture contracts will go to local firms and
that almost all equipment will be imported. The proposed Bank loan of $113
million would thus cover 52 percent of the total cost of the project with the
balance being provided by the government.
Implement at ion
53.       The project would be implemented by the Project Unit of the Ministry
of National Education which was responsible for the second education project
and is also responsible for the Ministry's items in the third project. The
Unit is operating efficiently and implementation of ongoing projects is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. Recruitment of experts under the technical assistance
program together with the recruitment of local staff financed by the govern-
ment will allow the Unit to undertake the additional workload related to the
proposed project. Pedagogical and administrative inputs to the Unit's work
would be provided by the director of each project institution. To ensure
that directors will be in post for the crucial period before startup, the
Government has given assurances that they will be appointed 12 months before
scheduled opening (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.08(a)).



- 16 -
54.       Progress in design development fell behind schedule in 1978 when
financial constraints resulted in delays in government payments to consul-
tants. Consequently, finalization of project documents was delayed. Design
development for the five technical lycees, the teacher training college and
the applied engineering college, for which engineering studies were financed
under the third education project, has been satisfactorily completed. Com-
pletion of design development for the other six technical lycees and the two
institutes of technology is scheduled for May 1979 and for the Mohammedia
Engineering College by July 1979. Suitable sites for all project institutions
have been acquired and detailed topographical surveys completed. Preliminary
equipment lists have been submitted for Bank approval and final lists are
scheduled for Bank review in early 1980. Construction of the institutions is
expected to commence in the period September 1980-April 1981 and be completed
during March-June 1983 except for Mohammedia which is scheduled for completion
in June 1984.
Project Contribution to meeting Manpower Needs
55.       Although lack of basic data makes estimates of future technical man-
power needs difficult, it is nevertheless clear that requirements for techni-
cians and engineers will outstrip the training capacity of local institutions
in the foreseeable future. The project institutions would make a significant
contribution to the long term requirements for technical manpower in Morocco
and an especially important contribution to the planned expansion of the
higher education system. The extension to Mohammedia would make possible an
increase in the annual output of "ingenieurs d'Etat" to about 400. The
applied engineering college, with an estimated output of 190 "ingenieurs
d'application" p.a. is one of two to be established. Current proposals also
call for the establishment of four higher institutes of technology, the first
of their kind under the Ministry of National Education. The project would
finance two of these which would graduate 550 higher technicians a year
at full capacity. The 11 technical lycees would more than double current
capacity and would eventually graduate 2,180 engineering technicians and
1,020 commercial technicians per year. About 85-90 percent of graduates are
expected to enter direct employment to ease the critical shortage of middle
level technicians. The technical teacher training college would play a major
role in supporting the expansion of technical education by providing 240
technical teachers a year.
56.       To assist in ensuring that the outputs of the project institutions
are adequately trained in relation to industry's needs and to secure employ-
ment in jobs for which they are trained, the Government has given assurances
that a monitoring system would be established for each institution and that
details of the system would be made available to the Bank for review at least
12 months before opening date (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.07(a)). Data
would be collected for five years following the first outputs from the insti-
tutions, as required for project evaluation and also to assist in improving
vocational guidance, career evaluation and curriculum development.



- 17 -
Teacher Requirements
57.       The project institutions would require about 1,470 teachers at full
capacity of which about 700 would be expatriates. The bulk of these require-
ments would be for the technical lycees which would need about 900 teachers
including about 550 expatriates. Moroccan teachers of basic science and
mathematics courses in the technical lycees would be drawn from the universi-
ties and limited numbers of teachers of technical subjects recruited from
industry and government. While moroccanization remains the Government's
long-term objective, in the immediate future expatriates would be recruited
under existing bilateral aid agreements with France and Belgium which are of
long-standing duration and work efficiently to supply a significant proportion
of teachers at the secondary and higher levels. Prospects for the successful
implementation of the Government's recruitment plan have been improved by
the formulation of a long range staff development program for each institution
which identifies the numbers and types of expatriate teaching staff required
each year during the first ten years of operation, and shows their gradual
replacement by qualified Moroccan counterparts. An understanding was reached
that the Government would give the highest priority in its requests to bilat-
eral agencies for assistance in obtaining the required expatriate teachers
and fellowships for the institutions during the period of the staff develop-
ment plans. From 1986 onwards, outputs from the proposed technical teacher
training college would make an increasing contribution to staffing the tech-
nical lycees. In addition, fellowships would be offered to train Moroccan
teaching staff for the post-secondary project institutions and these would be
financed under existing bilateral agreements.
Procurement and Disbursement
58.       Civil works contracts (amounting to $136 million including contin-
gencies) would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
(ICB). Contracts of less than $200,000 for civil works supplementary to main
contracts would be awarded on the basis of local commpetitive bidding proce-
dures which are acceptable to the Bank. The total contract amount to be
awarded under the latter procedures would not exceed an aggregated amount of
US$5.0 million. Equipment and furniture items (amounting to $67 million
including contingencies) would be grouped, to the extent possible, in large
packages to permit bulk procurement. Contracts for furniture and equipment in
excess of $50,000 would be awarded on the basis of ICB. Small items or groups
of items estimated to cost less than the above amount or items of a special-
ized nature for which ICB would not be practical, would be procured under
normal government procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank, and would
include, to the extent possible, quotation from at least three manufacturers
or suppliers. These items would not exceed an aggregate total of US$4.0
million. Local manufacturers of furniture would be allowed a margin of pre-
ference equal to the existing rate of customs duty applicable to competing
imports or 15 percent of the CIF price, whichever is lower. To ensure that
the necessary skills are available in the project institutions to operate and
maintain sophisticated pieces of equipment, the Government will require sup-
pliers to provide appropriate training for key personnel during installation.
The government has also agreed to prepare an equipment maintenance plan within
one year after the opening of the institutions (draft Loan Agreement, Section
4.03(b)).



- 18 -
59.       The proposed loan would be disbursed against:  39 percent of the
cost of civil works contracts; 100 percent of foreign expenditure for directly
imported furniture and equipment, 85 percent of local expenditures for locally
procured imported items and 50 percent of total expenditures for locally manu-
factured items; 17 percent of total expenditures for professional services;
and 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 80 percent of local expenditures
for technical assistance.
Benefits and Risks
60.       The project would make a significant contribution to the annual sup-
ply of skilled manpower helping to meet urgent manpower needs and allowing for
the progressive replacement of expatriate specialists in line with the govern-
ment's policy of rapid growth, modernization and self-reliance. The project
would also establish the first Moroccan institution for training technical
teachers thereby supporting the expansion of training in the technical lycee
system and allowing for the gradual moroccanization of the technical teacher
service. The training of technology teachers would allow for the expansion
of the "introduction to technology" course in lower secondary schools thereby
improving the relevance of the secondary curriculum to the modern environment.
The project institutions would also improve the regional distribution of
training opportunities and strengthen the links between training and industry.
61.       The technical lycees were conceived as providing practically oriented
programs which would fit graduates for direct employment as middle level tech-
nicians. It is important that this vital role be pursued while at the same
time recognizing that a number of the more academically inclined graduates
will be suitable for entry into higher technical education. Limitations on
scholarships and places in higher institutions would keep the proportion pro-
ceeding to higher education at about 10-15 percent of the annual graduating
class. There is some risk however, that the expectations and inclinations
of students, parents and teachers would raise pressures for more widespread
entry to higher education and diminish emphasis on job preparation. Careful
scrutiny of data collected through the monitoring system would be made to
identify any such adverse trends.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. The draft agreement conforms generally to the normal
pattern of loans for education projects. Features of the Loan Agreement of
special interest are referred to in the appropriate paragraphs of this Report
and summarized in Annex III.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 27, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 20 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                      Page  1  of  6
MOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
MOROCCO                                                 /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                - HOST RECENT ESTIKATE)
TOTAL            659.9 /f                                               SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     157.8                               MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960  Lb   1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb      REGION /c   GROUP /d   GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 190.0       290.0    570.0           1438.5      432.3       867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    148.0       180.0    274.0             816.7      251.7       578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                       11.6         14.8      17.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.3        32.2      39.5            45.8       24.2        46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       26.0        33.0      39.0 1/         23.2       42.7        50.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    61.0         74.0    112.0            112.4       95.0        93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        44.3         46.4      45.8            46.0       44.9        42.9
15-64 YRS.                        51.7        51.1      51.6             50.6       52.8        53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  4.0          2.5       2.6             3.3        3.0         3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.6         2.4       2.4             2.9        2.7         2.5
URBAN                             6.4          4.0       4.8             5.0        8.8         4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     50.4        49.2      44.5            45.0       42.2        37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     24.2        18.5      13.4            13.7       12.4        10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.4 /h      3.4       3.3             3.4        3.2         2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..         25.1      68.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..         3.0       5.4            14.7       14.2        20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OP FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)            118.7       100.0      86.0           107.1      104.3       107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   90.0       102.0     108.0            99.2       99.5       105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          43.0        64.0      70.5            63.4       56.8        63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        ..         14.0 /t   15.6            16.4       17.5        21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       ..         ..        ..              ..         7.5         8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    45.4        50.4      53.0           53.7        53.3        57.2
INFANT MORTALITY
RATE (PER THOUSAND)              149.0 lb      *-      130.0            77.7      82.5        53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        51.0        ..            59.1       31.1        56.8
URBAN                               ..       92.0        ..            85.9       68.5        79.0
RURAL                              ..         28.0       ..            38.0       18.2        31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        29.0        ..            64.3       37.5        30.9
URBAN                               ..       75.0         .            94.5       69.5        45.4
RURAL                              ..         4.0        ..            27.7       25.4        16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         9700.0 /h  12650.0   12400.0          4271.6    9359.2       2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..     2820.0   1500.0           2077.4    2762.5       1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           680.0       660.0    710.0            580.2      786.5       493.9
URBAN                              ..       460.0        .-           310.0      278.4       229.6
RURAL                              ..      2980.0        ..              ..    1358.4       2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        15.5      16.5            22.0       19.2        22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             4.8         5.5        ..             5.4         ..         5.2
URBAN                             4.3         4.9        ..              ..         ..         5.0
RURAL                             5.1         5.8        ..              ..         ..         5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             2.2         2.4        ..              ..         ..         2.0
URBAN                             2.1         2.1        ..             1.8        2.3         1.5
RURAL                             2.3         2.6        ..              ..         ..         2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            76.014        ..        ..            40.3       28.3        64.1
URBAN                            85.4 L      68.4      55.0              ..         ..        67.8
RURAL                            31.0 /1           *-                  12.2       10.3        34.1



- 21 -                                           ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                         Page  2  of  6
MOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
MOROCCO                                                   LA
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 lb     1970 /b ESTIMATE  b        REGION  c   GROUP  d    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  47.0         52.0       65.0            80.8         75.8        99.8
FEHALE                27.0         37.0       47.0             61.8        67.9         93.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   5.0         13.0       17.0             23.6        17.7        33.8
FEMALE                 2.0          7.0       12.0             18.2        12.9         29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)   ..            2.0        3.0              6.7         7.4        12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             43.0         34.0      40.0              31.5       34.3         34.9
SECONDARY                             .,         20.0       22.0             22.3       23.5         22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         17.0         21.0       28.0             50.1        63.7         71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          11.0         15.0       18.0             14.5         7.2        12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          46.0         60.0      77.0             125.8        71.1       104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.4         11.0      23.0              34.5       14.1         28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   22.0         16.0       14.0             17.4        16.3        45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0             ..        1.6              1.6         1.6         4.6
EFPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       3250.0       3980.0    4930.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    10.6         15.2       19.0              9.3       28.0         25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               56.4         49.9      42.5              42.0       54.1         46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.3         14.9      18.1
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 28.0         26.3       27.0             26.9       37.8         33.8
MALE                                  50.1         44.5       44.4             46.6        50.3        48.1
FEMALE                                 5.9          8.0       10.3              5.3       20.9         17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                2.0          1.9        1.8              1.9         1.3         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0 /k        20.0 1k      ..              .,        19.5         23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  43.3 /k        49.0 /k      ..              ..        48.9         52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    7.0 /k         4.0        ..               ..         5.9          4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0 /k        12.0  k     *-                *        15.7         13.1
POVERTY TA(GET GROUPS
ESTIMATE.) ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              107.0        157.0     288.0               ..       155.9        191.9
RURAL                               66.0        101.0     174.0            142.0        97.9        193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     189.0            236.1       143.7        319.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..            144.7        87.3        197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               59.0         39.0      34.0             21.5        22.9         19.8
RURAL                               49.0         45.0      45.0             37.4        36.7         35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries amng the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    North Africa & Middle East;   /d   Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);  Le  Intermediate Middle
Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);    If  Including Moroccan provinces in Western Sahara;   /R  Excludes
Moroccan provinces in W. Sahara;   /h  1962;   /i  Av. 1964-66;   Li  Brick building only;   Ik  Consumption
expenditures of households.
September, 1978



- 22 -                                                                 ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                            Page   3  of   6
NSg: The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group, Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform. Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                             Population per hospital bed - total. urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland vaters,                        urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                 available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                   habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow                                                                             at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included, Rural hospitals, however, include health and nedi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                  cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);              sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                             provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                    from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum , natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                   HOUSING
Average size of household  persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                            A household consisrs of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                  and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                          the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                    hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                  Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average sue-
of data among countries.                                                               ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                       dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  s. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                   unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                       Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                  Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                  of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-             EDUCATION
year population.                                                                    Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                  Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                      at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                  populations; nosIeally includes cbildreo aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual liye births per thousand of                     different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                   cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                    above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                   Secondary school - total., end female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                  tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                         vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                  usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                      excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                 Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                        clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                       or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                      primry and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                       sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) vho use birth-control              Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group,                                        a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                    CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                  Passenger cars (per thousanc population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all fond commodities                                     seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita              Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less              broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,             receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                 effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quirements were estimated by FAO based on physiological needq for nor-               abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                 TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to general
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                 public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level.                                                     tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                 Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                   tion of "daily general icterest newspaper", defined as A periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                 cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                  be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 Srams- should be animal protein.           Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                  sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                    units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from *nimal and pulse - Protein supply of food             EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                   Total labor force (thousands) - Econo-ically  ctive persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousard) - Annual deaths per thous-                forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children ic this age group,                             tions in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                 Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, honting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                       as percentage of totil labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                              electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                 Participeti.n rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                              feale labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                  These are ILO's adjusted participation rates reflecting age-see
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                   structure of the population, ond long time trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untre-ted but                Etocomic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and coer to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                    the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                   INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within re-                  Percentage of private income (bath in cash and kind) received by richest S
sonable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                  percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 pe-ccnt
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                    of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
waotr needs.                                                                       POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to excrete disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                 Estimated absolute poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban And rural -
rural - Number of people (tot-l, urban, And rural) served by excreta                      Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minial
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Excreta                       nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food reqoire=nots is not
disponal nay include the collection And disposal, with or without                       affordable.
treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-borne systems                  Estimated relative poverty income level (USS per capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                    Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                     per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                      Estimated populatio  below poverty income level (per.e.t) - urban end rural -
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                           Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                       "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nurses.
Economic and Social Data Division
Economic Analysis and Pr-jectlons Department



*   7 a00.0  cO000i  9     0   0140*0..   0                                                                                           c           $ z 
tz .                                                       I O'"  C   I
*   000*0p                                                                                                                   . .     .     .     .     ..
Oct.  0   0       2 0It-                                                                 . a. .0.0  . .0. . .Z   .       
*090  g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . .-.0...5.c.c. . .c. .
*   ~~   ~~   -  ..  '*0                          .~~~~           r-.         c    oce.c..a.a..o.a.. . . .r
.                   .c   Z'                                      -c.  . ..-..   .     . ..        .. .     . 
. . .  .oc  .           .        ....               .0 C 07 .       , ..00.7 0  O Oc  Z
to t  . . . . . .......                                   ..o o    ....   .     5 0                                 
C  a?  r0-I                                          0 -c    H.         100 7
*  ,  7                   -z               --                  .              n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e..  -..,    ..  .-  . . -
*                                ...... . ..                                          ... . .... .                                        . -.70.*..0. . .  a 



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
AI I ACH N MAN       8ALAhLt OlF PAY IPt N IS Ahtl t X Ft IN AL ASS I SYANCt
(MILLI OIS UF US VIILt ASs CURULhI  MARK I PRICLS)
Act.als                                                         Projected 3/
2 _  _                                                                                                  - - - - - - -   -
A. 3UMrt4ANY OF SALANCF UPF pAY"lNS                         a   *                                   a                   a *                                     A
1. EXPORTS, I.CL. tits                       55S,0    949,o   1V1 I .0/t i46.0I124.0,   2161 e.0         3140   3924,0   4592.0          II. o    w1Sob0 Idns59.0
4. I"PONlS# IACL. NIS                        423.o   97  0   35)9*u  4126,a o  1954.0   3412.0    t4 5,0  4 0, o  SjoS.1  581.0 11403.0 18662.0
3. RtSOUNCt S&L'LtA                          -b6.0 o    21 o0 .tbU20 -225S.0 .1714.0  .s49,n    -72900  -57,0 o  .83.0  .St,,O  .e097.0o  -Shs.0
4, hil FACIUO IttPVICIS                      -11,0       31.0    370,0    379.0    41b.0    167.0         355,0    311,0    414.0    qi570        b66.0    931.0
4,1. NEtT INTIAST PAYMtNIS                   .1710    .29,6    .sleo  .129,o   -161.0  -Zsb,0    .290.0    389 a   125.0  .324.0  .447.0   *72a.0
4.Z.   Il  JNV[SIJFtfil lNtErt             - 2.0    -28.0   -42.0    - 29.0   -54.0          .9130    .1u9.0 Jo     0.0   -132.0   *lS4.0   *150.0  -S,0.0
4.). F1P1R4:N'S aEtIIITAFCES                   41,0    119.0    S4t1.l   569,0    741.0    751.0         004.0 6o 0,0    921.u    95,t0  1313.0   1853.0
4,4. UTHitH  (NEI)                           -.2,0    -i6.0 o       0lt0    -52,0    .640      *s .50.0   -50.0    .50.0    .50,0    -so.0       -50.0    -'W.0.
5, CURRtET ItANUSVRIN:7t)                      13.0      42.0     e9.0      52.0      4S.0      46,0      s5.0       55.0      S.0       6.1.0     63.0    116.0
6. CWU4tNk  ACCOUNI MALANCF                   .92,0     S5.0 .1355.0 .1827.0 .1250.0   -454.0   -.22.0   -1%2.0    .45Q    -2,0.u -js%S.0    4b4.0
7. PRtiVAl  DIRECT INVESTMENT (NEt)            9.0     24.0      36.0      53,0      53.0      7D.e       77,0      *5.,      1-0    102.0    150.0    l1u.0
N. POULIC    & Li LOA4NS                          a                   A         A         A         a          *                   a         O                  a
0.1. DIsOuRS14ENTS                             a0,0    111.0    7l2,0  l?13.0    792,0    821.0           96 .0    913.0    942.0  lO89.0   2411.0   1569.0
8.2. REPAYMENTS                              -29,0   .7160    .64,0  .105.0    294.0  .424.0   .b52,0   *719.0  .69l30   ..64.0  .945.0 -1954.0
e.l. '4tl QlS8UASEtitlb                       59.0      4330    *48,0  |146.0   496.0    397.0            14. 0    144.0      49.0    233.0   144b.0  .3I5.0
9q  s..t lTERtM CAPiTAL (NET)                .10,0    -32,0       2P.0    e6,0        -5.0         a           A         A        A          A         A                             I
l8.NEI USE OF  1.4f OISOURCES                     0     la.0    195.0           *     34.0       0.00       8t0      91.0      t2.0      11.0                   *
it, CAPIAL k.1. I,  21                       s32,0      9S.0    SS9,0    519.0    431.0            A           A        A         A         A         A                              I
Ed,.CA"a4G  IN RESENVES                      .19,0    -15.0     114.0    u41.O        32.0      17.0     -oI.a       14.0   -t9.0  -298.0  .2b6.0   -120.0
I3.LtV19    OF R1.tHVIS                           A         A         A         A         A        A          A                   A         A         A         A
1..1. AMOIUNI                                 2.0    237.o    491.0            532.0    Sov.o    461.0   524h, o     I,0   599.0    691.06  L181.o   00s1.0
13.2. HORtIl"'  ImPUtSI                         0,4       2.9      2.0        I,6      1.5        .5        1.4       8.5       8.5       8,6       1.,9      2.0
B. C.RANT a LoAW MUII NTS                                             A                   A                                        A         A A                A a  a
1. OFFICIAL CgRtg   s                         25,0      11.0      j5.0      10,0A                  A          a         A *                 A         A         A
2, TOUAL PUBLIC t4   cl LOA3S                  b0,0    119.0    9,09.e  1930,0  IJ44.0             A          A         A         A         A         *
2,8. I86D/IDA                                   60.     97.0    850.0       6,0    113,0 A.                    A        A.  *               A
2,2. UTHIR Ikt1L IHSTIIYTIJuNS                              0 a    4.0       o,e      8 17.0       A          A         A         A         A         A         A
2.1. G3lVEFmEthTNS                            40.0       b3.0    144,0    653,0    220.0 o                    A                   A                   A
2t,4  SUPPL.IIR'S CtHDIIS                                  ,0         0     60 e.0 o                           A O                A         A                   A
2.s. CUm"ERCIAL BANKS                             0 o     3.0     03.0    934,0    965,0           a           a         A                   A
C. NEM0 IIFM6                                     A         A         a         AAA                                                          AA
1, GRANT ELOIMLNIT()                                    J o0      83.9      I8I        4.9         .                    A         A         * 
2. AVERAGE  INIERT(Xs )                           A      5.3       7.2       7.5       1.5
3. AVERA6E  4ATUNITYCIIARS)                       A     22,1      II.?      lo0l       7,S         A          A         A         A         A                   A
11  Including  APecial *ilItary Import pay entn Phich are tentatively AAtI-tej by the  Itqs.on st
J590 atilion In 1916 and $530  Illion In 1977.                                                                                           Mrch 26, 1919
EMfNHA cr lIC
21  Including grant..
3/  Projrctlonr fre belisg ,evI,ed by the  lSitc ECono..c It!Itnt.



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
AI TAU      h uI utS Iu  1 tII wNl I  it tl I  LFlf 1III I.-(h1IIt, lN,S
Acttuals                                                   Prt,jected  1/
---7--------                                                                                                      1982
-                                                                        1.VJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......J32§ … J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---  1961  19....2 .                  ..983  19----7
A. ,4"ll'111  K LL.10.  111i-i UtL41                                                 AAAAAAAAA
(Ir#lUhl"' If utsq  4"th.'~S Alr                                                    *                        A           A            A               *        *A 
( hI tIwI tJ t,'S lip   U.S (  }tl 1f.p4s 5)
1.  TC,1AL  fit,.                                                       A      919. 1e 4,l    A.S  7         0         Y9.l.    4,tJ  I0), 5 ,I  I   h 3S9,o    i3bSu1J  ')) 9tAO    flb'                l29 .b  I
-  UCLuo1wt;l.                                                           I It.'I)l.9HIJVl.?5  *   I II,(U 521     0    5u/14.(  It  7'4 0.  t'11i) tL   15?b.(I   "uI F.tl   I 3'1,e    ti 386 (l   9 l45.I
S ttl Fwt, -IL                         4b                  ,s,            u    p     Ia.; .  1 'd jt 4. A 4ibIlo 't O!D.(              9 4',t lj   I0nhl lIl h. I IY (o   I             1 q2,d   267tuwl}
3.1. II   Ff[^   l+t**sl                                            1 7. r      4at t        5 of 1)     &)9, rt     e8 So o5*               ?90lf (i        y,° 5I323, (          32Lu,0       tl47.1)      OF J
*'  Dt II I tiukot'Al A                                                                      *           *            *           ^            A            A           *            A            A
I A . i rm   St1, Y I   I-    pi VIN I 'S OwFt.   . S              It. 3      tO, 7         0:         Ic,5.1)     ? is ,J      4.e        2Mt.7       i!S, 7        2 .1 4      22. b        1      I  .S .b"
:       .  tF    SF '   I t1     t t/  P t i 1 I S  &I  4 K h  I1 S  kt 1, I |  1  7, 7  9 .3  S.5                    I'S         1 9, 7      ?'.b S tt    Z.            2  I        I t1(I      I s,              4
3 .,E r st N SEtI ( E/(JP ,Lp                        t,5'b                                                                                                               e s,, h3 6                a,SI.tt   4, 4,t
C.  It thS                                                              .            *                                     A *                      I t                      A *  *                                 t *
1    N    .t SIl¾.,pi.      yl AN  l,a                                  *           9         C te        S   t,       S, 9                     5*9          e I          ba ,dIe                  ' 5,h        7,6
n. i:ttI  St1V  1t /VW/I    JR   T PAP  I,111.                         *. I                              .J                                               2 1e,e    b 184  2  2S  I  l.          5, t5.t'
DL.   ltP EI.  t llUY     I                                                          *           *            *  *I                                 A           * A                       'A                        I 
1. ,hSS                                                             1 4         ie.         2b.A         SK,b        ?c           22,7         j 3§9       ZO, 1        1 ',5       I 'H  .      21 ,2         tt . 4 0n
2,  l  lU.h, e',       l   of      le 1.4        Ie.S         41,e         0,3        -4, -        -b,tl        -e.r          r1,3       -b.t
.~~~~~~~~( 48     IS S jSh   atUS   tIIS to  7                             I 7.9        A,          41 : t,  9 I     " It                   I ,2     -v ,b              a 31It _  u, 7       3j, 2      *I e . 9
F., t aPl.'IJs&l   tt (AIII | t                                                                  A S                                   .                               *     A            A            A 
1.  AXF t'  olSe.af I^l  lwlshe     *         I,o        c,/           5,t      111              A             A           A            A            A           A A
II eA  *R     4I   F i1t 'II O    III   DPA) 1   ,II                                        1 .6 h I,  "t            11   2           A             *           *            *                        A            A S
S.  p AIK  (.h'JI,   l'tMI  ~SEN./?111,Jlt  ,LfoT  S*.                  A         j,5       25.t0        17.9          9,5 5          *             *                                     A ^
I .  FlX  LIF1-.I.  ~L;tj   (                  ) I l t lShutSt,p  I                                           A *                      A            AA^
(NILI  111t,5       -
Outetandirng Dec.31,77
*                                                                                         A A *  tount, 
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IJ 11. It lbr                             .7  -r         A,l lt  .-4t;t
2. IL)A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~191                                                 A                AA                        a                         AAA
1J*;jv G i,lip"pt                                                                         Iiu.  o        Su,(I            AAa                                    AItAA 
5.  .,, fll'' 1F   _l.?  tNol3                                                       It    3      le-*.                                             A            AIAt 
b . F  I      It A    I  A  L        11I L; I  I  hS                                 * I  h  tt tt, II   &I , n                          
8           I I J .H 1  .1 IIut  .,                                     A            A |    ttn .l) tIt)                  A            A ,                       A            AA.,  I  t  I
7.    ITA(i                                                           A           A       1.o,       U0.41                          ItA                       It           AA 
y    l TI   I  AL1  1    -   .I I                                       A A  |  h, I I I                   9AsA.  At    I                                                    A 4A                                   *
.)'1 -I I  Plkt I IL tA                                                                                                                                                               A
1.  lLal debt service 1978/821mTtal DOD end [977 = 1.14
I;   I;roJections are being revised by tbe Baric Econonelc )lIsron.
CEHt:tA  (;'_  c  



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of February 28, 1979)
Loan of                                                                US$ Million
Credit                                                         Amount (less cancellations)
Number   Year       Borrower.                 Purpose          Bank       IDAI/  Undisbursed
Eleven   Loans      Fully disbursed                            174.9
Four     Credits   Fully disbursed                                        36.0
643      1969       Kingdom of Morocco        Irrigation        46.0               0.3
848      1972       CIH                      DFC (Tourism)    15.0                 1.1
850      1972       ONEP                     Water Supply       48.0               4.8
936      1973       ONE                      Power              25.0               3.6
955      1974       Kingdom of Morocco       Highway            29.0               5.8
1017      1974       Maroc-Phosphore           Industry          50.0               4.4
1018      1974       Kingdom of Morocco       Agricultre         32.0              12.5
1061      1974       BNDE                      DFC               30.0               5.0
555      1975       Kingdom of Morocco       Agriculture                  14.0    13.7
1123      1975       Kingdom of Morocco       Agriculture        18.5               8.4
1201      1976       Kingdom of Morocco       Agriculture        30.0              18.5
1202      1976       Kingdom of Morocco        Tourism           21.0              19.2
1220-T    1976       Kingdom of Morocco       Education          25.0              25.0
1279      1976       CIH                      DFC (Tourism)    25.0                 6.4
1299      1976       Kingdom of Morocco        Power             49.0              36.6
1361      1977       CNCA                     Agriculture        35.0              17.1
1383      1977       CIOR                      Industry          45.0               5.7
1416      1977       Kingdom of Morocco       Agriculture        41.0              40.3
1428      1977       BNDE                     DFC                45.0              44.7
S-7      1977       Kingdom of Morocco       Engineering         1.5               1.5
1528      1978       Kingdom of Morocco       Urban Develop.   18.0                18.0
1602      1978       Kingdom of Morocco        Fes Karia Tissa  65.0               65.0
1625 2/   1978       Maroc-Phosphore           Industry          50.0              50.0
Total                                                      918.9     50.0   407.7
of which has been repaid                                127.6       0L.
Total now outstanding                                      791.3     49.6
Amount sold                    20.4                                    -
of which has been repaid    6.2                           14.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA                             7         49.6
Total undisbursed                                          394.0     13.7   4&7.7
NOTES
t Prior to exchange adjustment
2/ Effective as of March 23, 1979
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of February 28, 1979)
US$ million
Loan      Equity  Total
1962       !NDE                     Develop.Bank      --        2.7      2.7
1966      CIL                       Canning Factory  0.9        0.3      1.4
1976      Marrakech Cement          Cement Factory   --         1.3      1.3
1977      Temara Cement             Cement Factory   4.8        2.4      7.2
Total gross commitments                          5.7       6.9    12.6
less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales                             0.9       1.2     2.1
Total commitments now held by IFC                4.8       5.7    10.5
Total undisbursed                                 _        0.2     0.2



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Ln. No. 643 Rharb-Sebou Irrigation Project: US$46 million Loan of November
13, 1969; Date of Effectiveness: June 8, 1970; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Progress in implementing the project was delayed by problems ini-
tially experienced with management and procurement of canalettes and severe
flooding in February 1977 which caused damage to crops and irrigation works.
The major project structure, Idriss 1   Dam, is completed and 32,400 ha out
of a total of 35,200 ha are already equipped. Additional infrastructure for
the project area, including a sugar cane processing factory, are being pro-
vided by Loan No. 1018-MOR.
Ln. No. 848 Second Hotel Development Project; US$15 million of June 30, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: November 1, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Commitments and disbursements initially lagged behind expectations,
due to sluggish investment activity in 1973, but the loan is now fully com-
mitted.
Ln. No. 850 Water Supply Project; US$48 million Loan of July 19, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: May 2, 1973; Closing Date: October 31,
1979.
The dam which was the major component of the project was inaugurated
in August 1974. All project elements are completed except for the training
school, which is under construction and expected to be completed by Fall 1979;
training courses are presently being given in temporary facilities. Although
tariff increases were implemented in October 1977, the higher revenues did
not compensate for steep increases in operating cost. The Government has
established an interministerial commission to review the situation.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX IEI
Page 3 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 936 Power Project; US$25 million of October 5, 1973; Date of
Effectiveness: January 23, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
Physical implementation of the project is complete. Savings amount-
ing to about US$3.5 million are being applied to consultant services for feas-
ibility studies, preliminary design and preparation of bid documents for 5
hydro stations required to alleviate Morocco's dependency on imported oil.
A one year postponement of the Closing Date was granted to allow payments
under these contracts. Electricity rates were increased on average by 14 per-
cent on February 1, 1978, and again by 22 percent in January 1979.
Ln. No. 955 Second Highway Project; US$29 million of January 11, 1974; Date
of Effectiveness: May 21, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Construction of the Rabat-Casablanca expressway which began in early
1975 - about 8 months behind schedule - is now almost complete and the mainte-
nance equipment and highway improvement programs are complete. Work on the
contract for technical assistance for the establishment of a Transport Plan-
ning Office in the Ministry of Public Works is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1017 Phosphoric Acid Project; US$50.0 million of June 27, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The project was mechanically completed in October 1976 and the plant
is now in commercial operation.
Ln. No. 1018 Sebou II Development Project; US$32.0 million of June 27, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: February 28, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The sugar cane processing factory was essentially completed on sched-
ule in 1975. Construction of the project area roads is on schedule. The
Government recently requested that funds earmarked for the construction of
flood protection dykes be transferred to other infrastructure works related
to the Sebou I and II projects, in view of the high costs of such works, the
economic benefits which are less than originally estimated and the advance-
ment of the construction of the M'Jara Dam which greatly curtails the risk of
flooding. A decision on this request is under review. The study on pollution
control is now proceeding satisfactorily; however the study on the incidence
of bilharzia on the Rharb plain has yet to be started.
Ln. No. 1061 Seventh BNDE Project; US$30 million of December 30, 1974; Date
of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1979.
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are roughly in line
with appraisal estimates.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1123  Souss Groundwater Project; US$18.5 million of,June 11, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: September 26, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The 59 wells required for new irrigated area (6,300 ha) were com-
pleted and tested one year ahead of appraisal schedule. Land clearing and
construction of the Project Headquarters and Development Centers have been
completed. Land distribution to Agrarian Reform beneficiaries has been
completed on about 55 percent of the project area. Works related to the
social components of the project which suffered from substantial delay are
now underway. Budgetary constraints facing Morocco have resulted in cutbacks
in the operating budget and held back the assignment of additional personnel.
While this issue has been partially solved for the area equipped so far,
developments will need to be watched carefully as more area is put under
irrigation in the future.
Cr. No. 555 Meknes Agricultural Development Project; US$14.0 million of
June 11, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 14, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
The Project initially faced substantial delays in project imple-
mentation. The studies are now underway, and commitments of funds under the
project have been initiated. Project management and the coordination of
project activities between the project authority and the central offices of
the Ministry of Agriculture have improved but continue to require close
monitoring. A revised land reform and redistribution program which meets the
project's objectives is currently under preparation.
Ln. No. 1201 Doukkala Irrigation Project; US$30.0 million of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 20, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project includes sprinkler irrigation for 15,400 ha and infra-
structure and equipment. Progress of construction is satisfactory after
initial delays. The first 4,200 ha have been completed and put in service.
Completion of the remainder of sectors is underway and expected to be on
schedule. Agricultural development has been very satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1202 Bay of Agadir Tourism Project; US$21.0 million of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is intended to develop Agadir into a major tourism area
and consists of infrastructure works and public facilities for the development
of a new tourism section on 260 ha on which 7,000 hotel beds and 2,600 hous-
ing units are expected to be constructed. The project includes also regional
infrastructure and facilities for the development of Agadir's tourism assets.
The major project component, UAT-Forestry land development, has entered its
construction phase and is expected to be completed by the end of 1979. The
implementation of other components experienced some delays but these are not
expected to affect overall project implementation.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1220 Third Education Project; US$25.0 million of March 18, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: October 1, 1976; Closing Date:
May 1, 1981.
The project is designed to expand and improve primary and secondary
education in rural areas and specialized training to meet urgent manpower
needs in education, agriculture, health and tourism. Project implementation
of physical aspects is progressing satisfactorily with the exception of the
health staff training centers which are behind schedule. Construction has
started for two project items and bidding for the remainder is expected to
open in April. Recruitment of experts under the technical assistance program
has been slow.
Ln. No. 1279 Third Hotel Development Project; US$25.0 million of July 2,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Implementation of the project is proceeding well. The Loan is ex-
pected to be disbursed somewhat ahead of schedule. The loan is fully com-
mitted. CIH has been successful in mobilizing foreign exchange resources
other than the Bank's and in reducing outstanding arrears in accordance with
understandings reached during negotiations.
Ln. No. 1299 Sidi Cheho - Al Massira Hydro Project; US$49.0 million of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project comprises the construction of the Al-Massira concrete
dam on the Oum er Rbia river, a 120-MW power station including a 225-KV sub-
station, construction of about 200 Km of 225 Kv transmission lines, and prepa-
ration of preliminary designs and bid documents for the Merija compensating
dam and power station. Procurement of the main project items is underway
and physical progress of the project is satisfactory. The hydro plant should
start operation by early 1980.
Ln. No. 1361  Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan to
Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) of February 7, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production
and at expanding the capability of CNCA as a sound agricultural institution.
The project will cover most of CNCA's program for medium- and long-term
lending through August 1979 and will include related technical assistance.
Disbursements of IBRD funds aim at financing on-farm investments of small
farmers, cooperatives and farmers' association. Over one half of the Bank
loan has been disbursed, and the remainder is expected to be disbursed by
August 31, 1979, as scheduled.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1383 CIOR Cement Project; US$45.0 million of April 29, 1977; Date
of Effectiveness: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project comprises construction of a 1.2 million tons per year
cement plant near Oujda in the Eastern Region of Morocco, and related distri-
bution facilities. Overall project implementation is satisfactory, within
original cost estimates and with a delay of about three months. Training of
key personnel is almost complete, and recruitment is adequate. The plant
has started operation in January 1979.
Ln. No. 1416 Doukkala II Irrigation Project; US$41.0 million of June 16,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project aims at extending irrigation and related agricultural
development in the Doukkala perimeter by 16,600 hectares; it also calls for
provision of extension and credit services, and village infrastructure.
Land consolidation program and the enlargement of the main canal are proceed-
ing according to schedule. Equipment of the project area has been slowed down
due to budgetary constraints facing Morocco and are likely to result in a 1 to
2 year delay in completing the project.
Ln. No. 1428 Eighth BNDE Project; US$45.0 million of June 16, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981.
The project is designed to meet part of BNDE's requirements for
financing of the import component of specific industrial enterprises, and
of a small-scale industry pilot project for which up to $5 million of Bank
financing is included. The loan became effective on December 21, 1977 and
commitments as of January 31, 1979 amounted to US$25 million.
Ln. No. S-7 Sewerage Engineering Project; US$1.5 million of August 30, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: August 26, 1978; Closing Date: April 30,
1981.
The project includes the preparation of a sewerage Master Plan for
the Casablanca-Mohammedia region and a priority first stage project. It would
assist Morocco in developing the design and planning criteria for urban sewer
systems and strengthening the institutional and financial bases for the
development of this sector. The loan became effective on August 26, 1978.
Ln. No. 1528 Rabat Urban Development Project; US$18.0 million of March 31,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982.
The project is designed to improve living conditions of the urban
poor in Rabat. It includes (i) comprehensive squatter upgrading; (ii) an



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7 pages
experimental Sites and Services Housing Schemes; (iii) an employment gen-
eration program; (iv) community services equipment; and (v) technical assis-
tance to strengthen the institutional arrangements and technical capabilities
of the executing agencies. The loan became effective on November 21, 1978,
and implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1602 Fes-Karia Tissa Agriculture Project; US$65.0 million of
September 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: February 13, 1979;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1986.
The project aims at (i) improving the standard of living of about
33,900 farm families cultivating about 256,000 hectares in the Fes-Karia-
Tissa region, and (ii) contributing to the growth of agricultural production
and to a decline in Moroccan dependence on imported food commodities. These
aims would be achieved through a reorganization and strengthening of agricul-
tural services and provision of infrastructure.
Ln. No. 1625 Maroc Phosphore Expansion Project; US$50.0 million of
October 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project consists of expansion of production facilities at Safi
through (i) the erection, on the site of the existing Maroc Phosphore plant,
of an additional unit to produce for export 165,000 tpy of phosphoric acid,
complete with ancillary facilities and related civil works; and (ii) the con-
struction of sulphur melting units and sulphur storage facilities; and the
construction of new phosphoric acid concentration and storage facilities.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Secton I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare project:  15 months (from December
1976 to February 1978)
(b)  Agencies responsible for project preparation:  Ministry of National Educa-
tion with some Bank
assistance. Consultants.
(c)  Project identified:                                Partially March/April 1975
(during appraisal of the
third education project);
finalized June 1977
(d)  Date of Bank appraisal mission:                    February/March 1978
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:                September 1978
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                     July 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(i)     advisory councils with strong industry representation will be
established for each new project institution within six months
after loan signing (para. 49);
(ii)     project unit to be strengthened through provision of 8 man-years
of technical experts (para. 50);
(iii)     Directors of the new project institutions will be appointed 12
months before scheduled opening of the project institutions
(para. 53);
(iv)     monitoring systems to evaluate the pedagogical results of the
project will be established for each institution and details of
these will be made available to the Bank for review at least 12
months before scheduled opening (para. 56);
(v)     the financing of expatriate teachers and fellowships for over-
seas training of Moroccan teachers will be given the highest
priority in the Government's requests to bilateral agencies
for assistance (para. 57); and



- 34 -
ANNEX III
pa.  2
(vi)     bid documents will require suppliers to provide training of
key personnel during installation in the use and maintenance
of sophisticated equipment; an appropriate plan for equipment
maintenance will be prepared for the project institutions and
forwarded for Bank review within one year after the opening
of the institutions (para. 58).



IBD 13723
darerda IaMALAGA                                     dei                       4AC417
Fraiera
SPAIN Ilt                                                                 S
eV                                   ad'
KsrlKb Tiddr
jrS    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C AM                                                                                                             gh  thlnlrTTitlECtltOYjiA L7*KSA?#W   I   an fet Si: nF\ -Ain-
.  0   $ia M ffrsaZI  t;  0   0                                                  ;                                                     0      0u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cac oa d  ad e E    Shj  A  ds
KINGDOMOP MOROCCO:
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                                                     Oa~n~                    '
TECH&IiAL TEAtCeR TRAINIam COLLESE                                                                                                                                         9 Debdan -D
-f HiaRaa*SiRSTTiTvTSOP TECI-{eJawGY                                                                                           R  isa RHj                2/i
$00040ARY 1*AS                                                                                                                hill+=y --' 
MOitAz&"-      A     a.--- TocaAC                                                                                                        /      Ytrnas#f    -, r.r                         T--,,-a
ArY :Ai   ROA S                                                                                                           Oura   Kea -                                   O   Cub--El -ej
-4RACKS                                                                                            TanS aroua 
r   .---ALOO \j  j                                                                                                                                                                                                     ei-g
+   *PO),                                                                                                                                                                                                   "
poets  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~NTalIrit                                                             Sadtfa     ,   fn 
ne ---iATSRAIOIA  bONAIR                  
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~taaa                                        (     'un  Arar        Tmoubi,e-
5  55  as  nsa  nv ~      ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~ran                                                                           '  ----
1AN1490rA>¶~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
tteaiineme  Fanumraa                                             n
H PTsen, -~Za,n
za     gane                                 A,, S..I,n,,----~~~~~~~~~~a.ar'ba.,   Ib~n  araraanp.   la,an, ba  rc
0Tarfaya                                 I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
2' ~ ~ ~     ~    ~ ~ Tz               fT                                               ----



