                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                      Report No:29194




                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                        (CPL-38460 SCL-3846A SCL-3846B SCPD-3846S)

                                          ON A

                                          LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$400 MILLION

                            TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA




                    FOR THE ZHEJIANG POWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                       April 23, 2004




Energy and Mining Sector Unit
East Asia and pacific Region

                                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                (Exchange Rate Effective December 2003)

                                        Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
                                                    Y 1 = US$ 0.12048
                                                  US$ 1 = Y 8.28
                                   Exchange Rate During Project Years
                                                 Year Average
                                             1994    --- Y 8.62
                                             1995    --- Y 8.35
                                             1996    --- Y 8.31
                                             1997    --- Y 8.29
                                            1998-2003 --- Y 8.28

                                                FISCAL YEAR
                                       January 1 ---    December 31

                                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BERI   Beijing Economic Research Institute for           O&M      Operation and Maintenance
       Water Resources and Electric Power                PPA      Power Purchase Agreement
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy                       QAG      Quality Assurance Group
CPSB   County Power Supply Bureau                        RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
DSCR   Debt Service Coverage Ratio                       SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
ECIDI  East China Investigation and Design Institute     SEPA     State Environment Protection Agency
ECO    Expanded Cofinancing Operation                    SPC      State Power Corporation
EIA    Environmental Impact Assessment                   T&D      Transmission and Distribution
EMP    Environment Management Plan                       VAT      Value Added Tax
ERR    Economic Rate of Return                           ZBFPGC   Zhejiang Beilun First Power generation Company Ltd.
FMIS   Financial management Information System           ZBPGC    Zhejiang Beilun Power Generation Company
FRR    Financial Rate of Return                          ZPEPB    Zhejiang Provincial Environment Protection Bureau
GOC    Government of China                               ZETC     Zhejiang Economic and trade Commission
HV     High Voltage                                      ZPEPC    Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Company
HMEPB  Hangzhou Municipal Electric Power Bureau
ICB    International Competitive Bidding                 GWh      giga watt hour
ICR    Implementation Completion Report                  ha       hectare
IDC    Interest During Construction                      m        meter
IPP    Independent Power Producer                        m2       square meter
LV     Low Voltage                                       m3       cubic meter
MOEP   Ministry of Electric Power                        km       kilo meter
MOF    Ministry of Finance                               kV       kilo volt
NEPB   Ninbo Electric Power Bureau                       MVA      million volt ampere
OED    Operation Evaluation Department                   MW       mega watt


                                      Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                                    Country Director       Yukon Huang
                                     Sector Manager        Junhui Wu
                Task Team Leader/Task Manager:             Barry Trembath

                                            CHINA
                    ZHEJIANG POWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              7
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              12
10. Additional Information                                                       13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             32
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             34
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             49
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             51
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                52
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            53
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              54
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            55
Annex 10. Implementation of Environment Management Plan                          63

Project ID: P003642                                                  Project Name: ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT
Team Leader: Barry Trembath                                          TL Unit: EASEG
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                      Report Date: April 28, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                                      L/C/TF Number: CPL-38460; SCL-3846A;
                                                                                                     SCL-3846B; SCPD-3846S
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Power (100%)
                  Theme: Other urban development (P); Pollution management and
                            environmental health (P); Other financial and private sector
                            development (P); Climate change (P); Regulation and competition
                            policy (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/23/1993                                     Effective: 08/23/1995
     Appraisal: 03/24/1994                                         MTR:
      Approval: 02/28/1995                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          PRC/ZPEPC
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Russell J. Cheetham
Country Director:               Yukon Huang                                    Nicholas C. Hope (Dept Director)
Sector Manager:                 Junhui Wu                                      Richard S. Newfarmer (Division Chief)
Team Leader at ICR:             Barry Trembath                                 Barry Trembath (Task Manager)
ICR Primary Author:             Yves J. Albouy; Yuling Zhou; Jie
                                Tang


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         HS
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The objectives of the project are to: (a) help meet rapidly expanding electricity demand in Zhejiang
Province in a least cost manner; (b) promote power sector reform including commercialization and
corporatization of the provincial power enterprise; (c) upgrade management capabilities and systems to
enable the enterprise to operate efficiently in a commercial environment; (d) promote competition at the
generation level through establishment of market-oriented commercial arrangements between power
generation and marketing entities; (e) encourage alternative financing strategies for power development; (f)
improve supply-side efficiency through reduction of transmission and distribution losses; and (g) reduce
environmental impacts of new generation.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objectives of the project were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

Major components of the project costs were: (1) a time-bound implementation plan of power sector reform
including commercialization and incorporation of the power company; (2) Beilungang Phase II (3 x 600
MW coal-fired units); (3) transmission network expansion and reinforcement; (4) reinforcement of
distribution networks in Hangzhou and Ningbo Municipalities; (5) engineering and construction
management service for Beilungang Phase II; (6) technical assistance.

3.4 Revised Components:

The transmission component was expanded to utilize cost savings.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The Quality at Entry was not rated by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG). Using the same
criteria, and on the basis of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) rates it as satisfactory. The relevance of the objectives and components is satisfactory. The
objectives were responsive to the Government strategy of modernizing the sub-sector and improving its
efficiency. Power shortages were acute then in the area and were still significant at project completion.
The Project was and remains a priority. It was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS), which emphasized support to economic reform, regulatory framework development and
corporatization of enterprises in parallel with environmentally responsible infrastructure development. It
was also in line with the strategy set out for power at appraisal time, which recommended direct support to
power companies in their transition to autonomous and business-oriented enterprises.

The project objectives were demanding particularly from a sector reform perspective but they were
realistic. The technological requirements were complex. Power sector and tariff reforms involved the
interplay of several government agencies and institutions. Interventions for other objectives involved a
wide-range of stakeholders. With its past success in Beilungang I and other Bank financed projects, the
Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Company (ZPEPC) had demonstrated its capacity to undertake major
projects, absorb offshore technology and make the institutional adjustments needed with the help of
international consulting services.




                                                     - 2 -

The components were geared to achieving the objectives and all the objectives were component-supported.
ZPEPC had adequate capacity as the implementing agency; it had built up adequate administrative capacity
for physical implementation through appointment of managerial staff with successful experiences in Phase I
projects.   Relevant lessons learned in prior projects in the country were applied in project design,
procurement and through continuity in staffing and hiring of experienced staff and consultants. The
financial management capacity of ZPEPC was rightly assessed as adequate.

Physical components design was under-pinned by adequate technical studies. The design was technically
sound and met all applicable safeguard policies. The economic analysis established that the project was the
least-cost solution to meet power demand. Environmental analyses properly assessed adverse impacts and
led to a well-defined Environment Management Plan (EMP). Public participation was satisfactory before
major decisions on environmental and resettlement issues were made. Implementation preparedness was
satisfactory in that all the tasks on the first segment of the critical path had been well defined. The SAR
foresaw the risks of delay due to project management or shortcomings in regulatory and tariffs reforms.
Mitigation measures, where possible, were clearly defined.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

All the originally stated objectives were achieved. The overall outcome is rated highly satisfactory.

    (a) Help meet rapidly expanding electricity demand in Zhejiang Province in a least cost manner.
         The outcome is rated highly satisfactory. Beilungang Phase II was, and still is, the most economic
         investment in the least-cost expansion program prepared by the Beijing Economic Research
         Institute for Water Resources and Electric Power (BERI) in 1994. The commissioning ahead of
         schedule of 3 x 600 MW in 2000 generated fuel savings and, above all, it helped meet an
         unexpected and spectacular demand growth (16.7% in 2000-02 vs. 10.5% in 1996-2000) though it
         could not prevent reserve margins at peak to reduce from a 9.5% in 1999 to 4.8% in 2001 and
         2.9% in 2002.

    (b) Promote sector reform including commercialization and corporatization of the provincial
         power enterprise. The outcome is rated satisfactory. Due to hesitations in Beijing, the reform of
         the Provincial regulatory bodies only started in April 2002 with a far reaching Government of
         China (GOC) directive on nationwide sector restructuring and regulation. Price reform for bulk
         sales is still underway. The unification of the three-tier retail tariffs was completed four years
         behind schedule but reform went beyond the objectives when all but one of several tariff surcharges
         were eliminated. ZPEPC and its affiliates were restructured and corporatized and their status and
         organization reflect a strong commercial orientation. A rationalization and modernization of rural
         distribution is underway, with ZPEPC playing a major role (paragraph 4.2 (a)).

    (c) Upgrade management capabilities and systems to enable the enterprise to operate efficiently in
         a commercial environment. The outcome is rated highly satisfactory.                The management
         capabilities of ZPEPC were upgraded following a major study and extensive training; a new
         financial MIS was established and, with the use of savings, its scope was broadened and extended
         throughout the utility, well beyond original plans. ZPEPC streamlined its corporate structure,
         organized more efficiently its business activities, and became a lead power marketer in China. TA
         improved its capacity in project construction, environmental protection, resettlement management,
         legal affairs and network planning. For the latter, the impact was greater than expected: the new



                                                     - 3 -

        methods and software were used intensively and for distribution, after their utilization in Ningbo
        and Hangzhou, they were disseminated throughout the province.

    (d) Promote competition in generation through market-oriented commercial arrangements
        between power generation and marketing entities. The outcome is rated highly satisfactory.
        Model documents for cogeneration projects inspired power sales agreements between ZPEPC and
        all power plants in the province. ZPEPC went beyond the action plan by separating generation
        from transmission, spinning off 12 IPPs by end 1999 and launching a competitive pool market.
        Participants in that pool represented 58.6 % of system output in 2000, 75% in 2001, spot sales
        14% of their output in 2000, 20% in 2001. As a result, in 2000-01, bulk prices were cut by about
        Y50/MWh, saving Y420 million without adverse impact on labor.

    (e) Encourage alternative financing strategies for power development. The outcome is highly
        satisfactory. ZPEPC contributed about 40% of the project cost, exceeding the 20-25% guidelines
        set by the GOC and the ratio covenanted with the Bank. Beside loans by IBRD and Chinese state
        controlled banks, ZPEPC borrowed offshore commercial loans with the Bank guarantee for about
        27 % of foreign exchange requirements. In addition, ZPEPC built up a subsidiary around its
        Taizhou generating plant and successfully listed it on the Shanghai and London stock exchanges; It
        also set up a Joint Venture generating company to channel some $150 million in foreign direct
        investments. Lastly, though the model agreements prepared for the Wangjiangmen co-generation
        plant had no direct use after the project was dropped, the TA gave ZPEPC a better understanding
        of international practice and helped in drafting purchase agreements with all its supplier
        independent power producers (IPP).

    (f) Improve supply-side efficiency through reduction of transmission and distribution losses. The
        outcome is highly satisfactory. The 500 kV investments had more impact than planned because of
        their early commissioning and expanded scope. Technical losses in transmission dropped from
        5.76% in 1995 to 4.3% in 2001 (total losses in the Province from 9.64% to 8.04%). They
        dropped 50% at 220 kV and 15% at 110 kV but they increased at lower voltages. In Ningbo and
        Hangzhou where sales almost doubled in 4 years, losses were contained to around 3%. Since
        1998, the occurrence of unacceptable voltage dropped to less than 1% from 4.6% in Ningbo and
        2.6% in Hangzhou and outages at 10 kV transformer level were eliminated.

    (g) Reduce environmental impacts of new generation. The outcome is highly satisfactory. All
        objectives were met and achievements went well beyond original objectives. Adverse impacts were
        mitigated or reduced to acceptable levels as specified in the EMP. In Beilungang, wastewater
        quality meets standards and emissions are 20% less than comparable plants in China. Coal
        consumption decreased in ZPEPC dispatched plants from 364 g/kWh in 1998 to 347 g/kWh in
        2001 a drop of 1.55 million tons with the attendant reduction in pollutants. With regard to people
        displaced by generation and transmission components, their living conditions improved and their
        per capita income increased on average by 43 percent.           ZPEPC was responsive to cultural
        sensitivities as shown by the site selection for the Yuyao substation.

4.2 Outputs by components:

All components were successful completed as defined and output often exceeded the expectations in the
SAR.

    (a) Time-bound plan for sector reform including commercialization and incorporation of the


                                                      - 4 -

    power company. The output is rated highly satisfactory. ZPEPC restructured all its generation
    assets into shareholding companies by end 1999. Its logistic, material supply and fuel supply
    functions were restructured into three limited liability companies and other functions re-organized
    to allow commercial-oriented operation.           Further separation of government functions and
    divestures of generation assets are now underway following a GOC decree.                    Distribution
    restructuring consisted of the following: (i) ZPEPC took over the management of County Power
    Supply Bureaus (CPSB); (ii) collectively owned distribution assets (typically portions of 10 kV
    and low voltage (LV) lines) were transferred to the 78 CPSBs on a voluntary basis; and (iii) in
    return, CPSBs will invest, operate and maintain the rural network and provide electricity services
    to individual customers, that until now was a function of small village crews. New financial
    management information systems (FMIS) were implemented for ZPEPC headquarters and
    extended to distribution branches as well as generation companies [more details are provided in
    para. (g) below on Techncial Assistance and Training].

    Retail tariff reform, initiated in 1995, was deepened by a GOC directive to (i) eliminate all local
    surcharges; (ii) include in the tariff the allowances for distribution investments; and (iii) provide an
    uniform tariff for all consumers on the same grid. A ZPEPC tariff with all the above changes was
    applied on January 1, 2000. The level of sector revenue Y0.595/kWh was less than the 1999
    average of Y 0.618/kWh.

(b) Beilungang Phase II consisting of the addition of three 600 MW coal-fired units. The output is
    highly satisfactory. Unit #3 was first synchronized in December 1998, unit #4 in November
    1999, unit #5 in May 2000. All were in full commercial operation by October 5, 2000, more than
    eight months ahead of schedule, after overcoming major technical problems with the equipment as
    supplied. Technical performance is good (availability rate is 89.4%, and coal consumption 323
    g/kWh); efficiency and maximum output are now close to or above design benchmarks.

(c) Transmission network expansion and reinforcement. The output is rated highly satisfactory.
    The original scope of works was completed in November 1999, six months ahead of the date
    required by unit 3 commissioning, more than a year ahead of schedule and with savings that funded
    additional works. The extra line and four additional substations (two new and two extensions) are
    all in full operation.

(d) Reinforcement of distribution networks in Hangzhou and Ningbo Municipalities. The output is
    satisfactory. The components were completed slightly behind schedule but all Bank-financed
    substations, 10 out of 24 included in the project, are now in operation.

(e) Engineering and construction management service for Beilungang Phase II. The output is
    satisfactory. The service was provided as needed and defined at appraisal in a timely manner. It
    facilitated the resolutions of the countless issues that arose during construction and commissioning
    while keeping up with the accelerated schedule.

(f) Technical Assistance in preparing the security package for the Wangjiangmen cogeneration
    plant. The output is satisfactory. City planners dropped the project but a set of model documents
    for the private financing of cogeneration projects was prepared. The model text prepared for
    power sales was used in drafting agreements with all generators although they were ultimately
    amended to comply with local laws.




                                                   - 5 -

    (g) Technical Assistance and Training This component is rated highly satisfactory. All the six
         technical assistance components were successfully completed as defined in the Staff Appraisal
         Report (SAR).      For the FMIS, the output exceeded plans: with cost savings, its scope was
         expanded through the inclusion of additional modules and its scope was expanded to all ZPEPC
         headquarters, generation and distribution "sites" to cover its installation throughout ZPEPC and
         add modules. Methods and software for transmission and distribution planning were installed and
         disseminated.    The environmental monitoring system was accepted by the State Environment
         Protection Agency (SEPA) in March 2001; data requirements were reviewed in terms of future
         development and existing installations and a monitoring strategy was formulated taking into
         account the lack of baseline and pollution data before the system was set up.

         TA output for the competitive pool was complex and varied providing assistance in relation to: (i)
         preparation of a Market Code; (ii) design of vesting contracts for differences to hedge price risks;
         (iii) establishment of a fully computerized power trading center; (iv) design of upgrades in metering
         automatic generation control for each market participant unit; and (v) formation of a single buyer
         entity, a market liaison and coordination group and a special unit in the Zhejiang Economic and
         Trade Commission (ZETC). Training touched about 600 staff.

Covenants. All covenants were complied with. Consolidated financial statements are still prepared to
monitor ZPEPC performance. After about two years of project completion, ZPEPC is on sound footing: the
share of debt in the capital structure is now less than 60% and decreasing, the rate of returns on the
historical value of operating assets will remain above 8%, the debt service coverage ratio is expected to
oscillate between 1.4 and 2.3, that is close to or above the 1.5 value covenanted with the Bank.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

For Beilungang II, the economic benefits are quantified as the value of the output with a conservative
capacity utilization of 5,500 hours/year. The environmental benefits or costs are deemed negligible. The
actual willingness to pay is reflected in the bulk price including VAT of Y359.5/MWh; the updated ERR is
20 percent. It meets the appraisal estimate even though at appraisal, the projected utilization was 6,000
hours and the assumed price some Y430/MWh in Yuans of 2002 because of lower than expected plant and
coal economic costs (12% and 25% respectively).

For ZPEPC transmission investment plan of 1995-2002, the costs are taken to include all facilities down to
and including 110 kV and benefits are the incremental sales in 1996-2003; they are valued at the
willingness to pay which is 492.5/MWh, the average tariff paid to ZPEPC including VAT at that high
voltage (HV) level.       The main expenditure is the purchase of incremental generation priced at
Y307.3/MWh because it is mostly coming from Beilungang II or similar new plants and the VAT is
reimbursed. The updated ERR is then 17 percent. Again it meets the appraisal target even though the more
favorable sales tariff assumptions of the appraisal have not materialized; this is because incremental
demand has been much higher and was met with a comparable amount of investment thanks to higher
efficiency in procurement as exemplified in the transmission and distribution (T&D) component of the
Project.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

For Beilungang II, the real FRR (ignoring inflation) is 13.54 percent before taxes and 11.2 percent after all
taxes. It falls to 9.8 percent if operation and maintenance (O&M) costs grow at 2% p.a. but without tariff
increase; if all future costs and prices are escalated at the same rate, the FRR after taxes increases to 12.2



                                                      - 6 -

percent.

For transmission, with the above Y185.2/MWh margin on incremental HV sales and zero inflation, the
FRR is 13 percent before taxes and 10.1 percent after all taxes. It can fall to zero if only O&M costs are
allowed to grow; but if all future costs and prices are escalated at the same 2% inflation rate, the FRR after
taxes increases to 11.5 percent.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The impact on institutional development is rated high. It was substantial on tariff reforms, network
planning and on utility restructuring and corporatization. With respect to the competitive pool experiment,
the impact was clearly high because it was immediate and yet far-reaching. The outcome demonstrated that
this step, while complex, was within the reach of local reformers and engineers and that market
liberalization and unbundling was also politically desirable and feasible in China; it was key to the GOC's
launching of the nationwide restructuring in April 2002 which puts China ahead of most developing
countries; it also underlined the critical areas for improvements in the reform blue print in particular
independent regulation and network and market operators. The human resources developed under the
Project are now playing essential roles in various government bodies in spearheading the nation wide sector
reform in China, and in enabling ZPEPC to operate and grow more efficiently in this changing
environment.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The impact of outside factors is mixed. The devaluation of the Japanese Yen against USD generated
savings. An event which had a major effect on implementation of Beilungang, was the need to carry out
field reinforcement of overstressed boiler structure. Erection of the structure commenced in 1997, and it
became evident after commencement of filling of the first boiler that several structural members were
overstressed. After investigations , the contractor agreed to take full responsibility for the cost of
modifications which had to be done in site since a large proportion of the structures had already been
installed. The reinforcement involved an additional 450 tons for each unit and took a year to complete.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Clearance delays for importing 500 kV transmission and substation equipment postponed completion dates;
delays in approving the Feasibility Study Report and Preliminary Design Report postponed counterpart
funds disbursement early on, but their timely provision afterwards helped meet physical and financial
targets.

Competition in the pool was blunted by the lack of incentives for generators to cut costs, continuing
changes to the terms of the vesting contracts, control on which generators can compete and access to new
entrants. A root cause of those market restraints is the lack of regulatory mechanism to allocate network
congestion costs and allow ZPEPC to pass its costs to end-users.

On the plus side, GOC gave clear signals and inducement to reform particularly the pool experiment; its
well publicized determination to see it through and learn from it created the enabling environment to meet
or surpass objectives.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:



                                                     - 7 -

Strong commitment by the implementing agency enabled the project to exceed SAR expectations in human
resource development, project coordination, design and construction management, and cost control.

Staff continuity ensured that experience and skills accumulated in Phase I of Beilungang Plant benefit
Phase II, e.g. in procurement packaging. That required a conscious effort in light of the restructuring in
1997 of the owner Zhejiang Beilun Power Generation Company (ZBPGC).

Training was a key factor contributing to successful project completion and high institutional development
impact. Extensive training was provided under the project. Under the special management training
program alone, at least 2500 staff-day of advanced managerial training was accomplished overseas
(Australia, France, Japan) in the areas including sector management, human resources development, power
plant, distribution and finance. In addition, training was provided under various consulting services
assignments and main electrical & mechanical equipment supply contracts in the following areas:
engineering & design, operations & maintenance, system planning, construction planning & scheduling,
budgeting, cost control, schedule control, quality control, documents control, contract management, project
management, computer network, material/equipment/fuel supply & control, financial management
information system, environmental impact assessment, environmental monitoring & management, power
sector reform, and power market development.

Several technical shortcomings in boiler operation also became apparent after the first unit commenced
operations. The Supplier agreed to modify the design at no cost to the Buyer. However, it was necessary to
shut down each unit for two to three months to incorporate design modifications. The problems could be
attributed to the fact that the boiler design was innovative and had not been tested in previous installations.
While the Supplier accepted contractual responsibility, ZPEPC accepts some moral responsibility since,
during negotiations, they had asked the manufacturer to modify his tested design to ensure avoidance of
problems which had led to a major boiler related accident during operation of the second unit of Beilungang
Phase I.

The controversies on boiler and turbine performance -- and the contrast with T&D procurement-- stresses
the need to understand the legal obligations in the technical sections, e.g. testing procedures, of suppliers'
contracts in order to improve the terms and timeliness of dispute resolution. Involving legal counsel in
negotiating liquidated damages helped but it is best to enlist their help in the preparation of bidding
documents and contract negotiations.

The Owner considers that technical performance may be adversely affected through the Bank-imposed
bidding procedure: too often, the lowest evaluated responsive bidder reduces costs for a minimum though
barely meets technical requirements confident that in case of shortcomings, it can negotiate the application
of its performance guarantee and minimize the amount of liquidated damages.

Was this unit size and technology the right choice at the right time? The question should be raised after
three Bank projects to help build Beilungang I and II and so many procurement and construction
difficulties. The answer is yes. It was big leap forward especially in the 1980s but the growth and plant
location conditions in Zhejiang demanded units of large size and high efficiency; the excellent operating
experience indicates that the technology is sound and that ZPEPC has mastered it. In doing so, it has
benefited from both economies of scale and series by building 5 units of that type. At 2000 prices, the
average capital cost for the 5 units is about $550/kW, remarkably low for this level of coal plant
technology. Cost analysis indicates that the learning that occurred in Beilungang was the main source of
project cost savings.


                                                       - 8 -

5.4 Costs and financing:

The appraisal cost excluding interest during construction (IDC) but including the new transmission
component (financed partly by Bank loan savings) was $1,574.1 million equivalent (including $1284.1
million as stated in SAR, plus $290.0 million estimated at appraisal of the new transmission extension), of
which $619.9 million ($573.9 million as stated in indicated in SAR, plus $46.0 million for the transmission
expansion) (39.4 percent of total cost) was foreign cost. The actual cost was $1,493.8 million equivalent,
of which $532.3 million (or 35.6 percent) was foreign cost. The overall cost savings are about 5.1%, while
the savings in foreign exchange is higher (about 14.1 percent).

Savings are significant for Beilungang II, the major component of the project. After netting out price
inflation, the actual cost (excluding IDC) at 1994 prices is $815.4 million, compared to $950 million for
the appraisal base cost plus physical contingencies, resulting in a 16.6 percent saving.

Cost savings net of inflation originate from: (i) intense international competition for supply of mechanical
and electric equipment; (ii) efficient contract and funds management especially for foreign contract claims;
and (iii) an optimized design that minimized change orders. The devaluation of the Japanese Yen also
contributed to cost savings in dollar terms.

Financing departed from the appraisal plan mostly because prices of procurement packages through
international competitive bidding (ICB) were lower than appraisal estimates (resulting in Bank loan
savings). But with the additional transmission component, the Bank and the ECO contributed almost all
that was planned which was sufficient to cover all the foreign cost, thus the local financiers did not need to
finance any foreign exchange.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability is rated highly likely. All physical components were constructed in a technically sound
manner and all necessary conditions for their operation and maintenance are likely to be achieved. The
project is financially sustainable; ZPEPC has a comfortable debt coverage ratio. Beilungang II generates
substantial cash surpluses: by June 30, 2002, ZBPGC had repaid Y1,561 million in loans and accumulated
a profit before tax of Y2,154 million; its FRR is not only high but also robust in so far as power supply is
tight, demand growth is high and the plant very competitive.            However, the separation of the most
profitable generating plants from ZPEPC may adversely impact ZPEPC's financial performance. In spite
of a recent increase, the share of tariff revenue allocated to T&D including LV distribution is only
Y183/MWh; as suggested by the above FRR estimates, this order of magnitude easily covers for HV
transmission, but it is inadequate to enable ZPEPC to service debt and raise new funding for T&D
investments below 110 kV.

Environmental and resettlement sustainability is highly likely.         Negative impacts were mitigated and
minimized all within acceptable levels, monitoring is continuing.

The results of the competitive pool experiment are likely to be sustained. The next wave of reforms
announced in 2002 gives the model a powerful boost. How it will evolve is more uncertain. A 2001 review
by the consultants who assisted in its establishment recommends several improvements.                   Market
participants have wishes of their own e.g. moving to multiple buyers, increasing the size of the market by



                                                      - 9 -

including other provinces and having the strike price in the vesting contracts negotiated by the parties. But,
because electricity supply is tight, many want to continue capping market prices.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The last three units of the Beilungang Power Plant (financed under the project) are managed by ZBPGC
controlled by ZPEPDC; the two Phase I units are managed by Zhejiang Beilun First Power Generation
Company Ltd (ZBFPGC) controlled Guodian Group (one of the five big Gencos in China). ZBPGC is
staffed with 19 persons in three departments who have performed well so far (the routine O&M of the three
units are contracted out to ZBFPGC). After the unbundling, ZPEPC will continue to own and manage the
transmission facilities financed under the project. The only unfinished business under the Project as of the
original closing date (December 31, 2002) was the TA for expanded scope of FMIS. At the request of the
borrower, the Bank granted an one-year partial extension to the loan closing date. The FMIS component
has been satisfactorily completed.

The performance indicators to watch are: (i) for ZBPGC, the sales tariff as practiced, the revenue from
energy sales, the debt service coverage ratio (DSCR), the resettlement and environment impact indicators
as defined in the plans; and (ii) for ZPEPC, the T&D margin as practiced, the revenue, DSCR and self
financing ratio. All monitoring systems to that effect are in place except that financial covenants applicable
to the relevant parts of ZPEPC after its unbundling need to be agreed on as replacements to existing
dispositions. Since this issue affects all World Bank power projects, it is being dealt with at sector level.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Bank performance is rated satisfactory.        Project identification and design were satisfactory: During
preparation, the Bank provided adequate expertise in helping the Borrower work out sound action plans. It
foresaw the high demand placed on local skills in the areas of sector reform, environment and resettlement
management and it worked well with ZPEPC in preparing the EIA, EMP and RAP and the program to
strengthen its capacity. Loan approval was timely.

7.2 Supervision:

Bank supervision was highly satisfactory. It was regular and proactive with a focus on development
impacts and the Bank's safeguard policies and fiduciary duties. The Bank worked effectively with the
Borrower in detecting and tackling issues, modifying the components as soon as needed to spend the
savings in the most meaningful manner. It facilitated or provided world-class advice to ZPEPC for
catching up on construction delays and improving contract management and unit performance. Last but
not least using ZPEPC a willing and long trusted counterpart, it seized 2 years into the project the
opportunity to pilot the competitive pool, a complex affair even for industrialized countries and only the
second such case of assistance by the Bank. It gave guidance and facilitated world class advice for that
component while avoiding the "purist's" overreach that even in more sophisticated markets led to paralysis
(Thailand) or failures (California).

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall performance is rated highly satisfactory. The Bank was sure footed in pitching the Project as an
institutional stretch. While blameless in the procurement problems, it was resourceful in helping resolve



                                                    - 10 -

them while at the same time not substituting for the Borrower in making decisions but facilitating capacity
building in all the involved local parties.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Government's performance is rated highly satisfactory. The central and local governments were very
responsive to all comments made by the Bank missions; ZPEPC assumed full responsibility for all the
design and preparation and tapped foreign consultants as needed. ZPEPC invested a considerable amount
of resources to complete the EA, EMP and RAP in a timely and satisfactory manner.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Government performance is rated satisfactory. The provincial government were very responsive to all
comments made by the Bank for implementing the EMP. GOC support was key to tariff unification and
competitive pools but it was late and still is a bit slow on the reform of regulatory institutions at the
provincial and central levels.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

ZPEPC performance was highly satisfactory. Project management effectiveness was high especially for
scheduling, costing, and financial and quality controls. The lines of accountability and tasks assignments
were clear. Responses to construction delays and equipment defects were prompt and effective. Local
financing, the options to use cost savings were provided in a timely and adequate way.                ZPEPC
demonstrated commitment to national and international standards for resettlement and environmental
management. It never wavered in its innovations, i.e. sector unbundling and liberalization, and it made
good use of TA. The progress and implementation reports were timely and well documented.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall Borrower performance is rated highly satisfactory. It met the covenants and showed a steady
commitment to both the physical and institutional objectives, achieving and often surpassing them with high
cost effectiveness while following strictly the Bank procedures. Above all, it demonstrated openness to
experimentation in institutional reform.

8. Lessons Learned

The following are the main lessons learned from the Project and other Bank financed thermal generation
projects in China as per the Bank's Operation Evaluation Department (OED) audit of those projects, but
with some changes for lessons (a) and (d) :

    (a) ZPEPC's initial difficulties in managing the interface between a large array of contracts for Phase I
        in contrast with the experience for Phase II points to the advantage of larger and better defined lots,
        rather than to the need for construction assistance by international consultants.

    (b) The higher quality of environmental monitoring at Beilungang is largely correlated, with the Bank
        agreeing to finance the installation by and for the owner's own station through Phase I and II.

    (c) The remarkable leaps in industry structure pioneered by Zhejiang over three projects and the
        acknowledged demonstration effect it has had on the sector nationwide vindicates the Bank and



                                                    - 11 -

        GOC strategy of picking a leader and staying with it over the long haul.

    (d) The long awaited tariff unification, the stalemate in the reform of regulatory institutions point to
        the need for strong and enlightened GOC involvement at the highest level to achieve progress in
        price rationalization; since the "new plant new price" policy of 1986, all the bold moves occurred
        at that level in contrast with the tinkering at the provincial level that lead to the creation of
        surcharges and that is too ad-hoc to make economic sense.

The lessons drawn from this specific project are:

    (e) Reforms in the industry structure and market organization require strong commitment by the
        central government. Commitment by provincial government and public participation are key to
        successful environmental management and people resettlement. Both ingredients were present
        throughout in this project.

    (f) Participation of lawyers from bidding document preparation through contract execution and
        termination can be very beneficial, especially when something goes wrong during implementation.
        Legal support was called upon after claims against steam turbine island suppliers arose. It took
        much more time and resources than expected to settle the claim due to lack of legal advice in
        drafting the terms and conditions in the bidding documents and contracts.

    (g) Departure from a proven technology is risky: in spite of excellent references, the boilers
        manufacturer provoked costly delays and modifications by trying for the first time design options
        that proved to be unsatisfactory.

    (h) Pre-qualification should demand proven references for similar equipment, not just general
        experience. Inexperience of the supplier for the coal conveying/feeding system caused suspension
        of contract execution and major delays.

    (i) Implementation lapses and their cost in money and delays underline the importance of the following
        elements:

            Prompt government clearances.
            Effective design management to ensure a timely delivery of drawings.
            Thorough design, investigation and preparation works.
            Foreign consultants for legal advice to include local expertise on domestic laws and
             regulations.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The Borrower's comments were mainly editorial and were reflected in this ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers:

No comments were received from co-financers.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                                   - 12 -

No comments were sought or received from NGOs or private sectors.

10. Additional Information


                               Borrower's Project Evaluation Summary

                         BORROWER'S PROJECT EVALUATION SUMMARY
                           ZHEJIANG POWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                          (LOAN NO. 3846-CHA)

Introduction

1.       Zhejiang Power Development Project is the third electrical power project loaned by the World
Bank in Zhejiang Province of the People's Republic of China. With the World Bank loan US$400.00
millions and the ECO loan US$150.00 millions, the project includes power sector reform, investment and
institutional development components as follows:

         (a) a time-bound implementation plan for power sector reform including commercialization and
              incorporation of the power company;

         (b) Beilungang Phase II consisting of the addition of three 600 MW coal fired units (Units 3 to 5)
              at the Beilungang Power Plant;

         (c) Transmission network expansion and reinforcement by the addition of about 400 circuit-km of
              500 kV transmission lines and 2,250 MVA of 500 kV substations;

         (d) Reinforcement of distribution networks in Hangzhou and Ningbo Municipalities;

         (e) Engineering and construction management services for Beilungang Phase II;

         (f) Technical assistance in preparing the security package for the Wangjiangmen cogeneration
              plant; and

         (g) Technical assistance to: (i) assist the power company in its commercialization and
              corporatization; (ii) establish a computerized financial management information system
              (FMIS); (iii) improve transmission and distribution planning; (iv) upgrade environmental
              monitoring; and (v) support ZPEPC's training program.

Objectives

2.       The objectives of the project are to: (a) help meet rapidly expanding electricity demand in Zhejiang
Province in a least-cost manner; (b) promote power sector reform including commercialization and
corporatization of the provincial power enterprise; (c) upgrade management capabilities and systems to
enable the enterprise to operate efficiently in a commercial environment; (d) promote competition at the
generation level through establishment of market-oriented commercial arrangements between power
generation and marketing entities; (e) encourage alternative financing strategies for power development; (f)
improve supply-side efficiency through reduction of transmission and distribution losses; and (g) reduce
environmental impacts of new generation.



                                                      - 13 -

3.      Beilungang Power Plant Project Phase II. This component consists of a 3x600 MW pulverized
coal-fired extension to the existing 2x600 MW Beilungang Power Plant Project Phase I. The site is located
in the Beilun special economic zone near Ningbo city in an area dedicated to industrial, port and
transshipment facilities. Phase I of Beilungang Power Plant was assisted by the World Bank Loans
2706-CHA and 2955-CHA, approved in May 1986 and May 1988, respectively. The first 600 MW unit
was put into commercial operation in June 1992; the second 600 MW unit was put into commercial
operation by the end of 1994.

4.      500 kV Transmission Component. The transmission component is designed to connect the
Beilungang Phase II Power Plant to the ZPEPC grid. It comprises a new 500 kV Jinhua substation (1x750
MVA), extension of the 500 kV Shaoxing substation (1x750 MVA extension), extension of the 500 kV
Pingyao substation (1x750 MVA), a second circuit of 500 kV Shaoxing-Pingyao line (97 km), a new
circuit 500 kV Shaoxing-Jinhua transmission line (145 km), and a third circuit of 500 kV
Beilungang-Shaoxing transmission line (140 km).

5.      Hangzhou and Ningbo Distribution Component. Hangzhou and Ningbo are two of the major
load centers in the province. With rapid economic growth and increased power demand, it is imperative to
reinforce the urban distribution networks of these two cities. The planning for this component was carried
out under the Beilungang Extension Project, by planning staff of the power supply bureaus of the cities of
Hangzhou and Ningbo (HMEPB and NEPB) under the overall guidance of ZPEPC. The component
includes: (a) in Hangzhou a 220 kV loop network of 42 circuit-km, along with an additional 56 circuit-km
of 110 kV network and 60 circuit-km of 10 kV network; and (b) in Ningbo an additional 87 circuit-km of
220 kV network, 96 circuit-km of 110 kV network and 55 circuit-km of 10 kV network. Associated
substation capacities will also be increased.

6.      Wangjiangmen Cogeneration Plant.          The project only includes technical assistance for the
preparation of security package for this plant with the World Bank loan. Financing of the preparation of
the security package will enable the Bank to become involved in the preparation of the agreements,
ensuring that they provide for fully commercial arrangements between the parties and lead to economic
pricing and dispatch of electricity and heat. The resulting agreements will provide a model for future
private power developments, assisting in the orderly and economic development of private power in the
province.

7.      Environmental Protection. With the construction of major components such as Beilungang
Power Plant Phase II and transmission/distribution networks in the Zhejiang Power Development Project,
the environmental protection would be carried out with high standards. To control and monitor the gas
dust, SO2, and Nox discharging, the necessary facilities for continuously monitoring atmospheric
environment and pollution sources would be set up for this project.

8.      Land Acquisition and Resettlement. All construction components of the project involve land
acquisition or relocation of existing residents. The project would acquire a total of 75.93 hectares (ha) of
land, demolish 165,920 square meters of floor space, and relocate 1,644 households (4,675 persons)
through acquisition of agricultural land.

9.      Technical Assistance. The objectives of technical assistance for the project are to: (a) assist the
power company in its commercialization and corporatization; (b) provide engineering and construction
management services of Beilungang Phase II; (c) assist in preparing the legal documentation for the



                                                   - 14 -

Wangjiangmen cogeneration plant; (d) establish a computerized financial management information system
(FMIS); (e) improve transmission and distribution planning; and (f) upgrade environmental monitoring.

10.     Training. In order to improve professional skills of staff engaged in planning, financial, personnel,
project construction and operational management areas, and meet ZPEPC's long-term needs, the project
would support ZPEPC training program over a four-year period, financing foreign costs of instructors,
study tours and upgrading and equipping training facilities.

11.     Power Sector Reform. Within the project, ZPEPC would implement a program of power sector
reform based on broad principles established by the Ministry of Electric Power (MOEP). These principles
are described in a policy letter furnished to the Bank by MOEP on Dec. 15, 1993. MOEP has identified
Zhejiang Province as a suitable pilot province for testing its proposed power sector reforms with the
assistance of the World Bank. The objectives of power sector reform are as: (a) separation of government
regulatory functions from ZPEPC and establishment of a suitable regulatory institution; (b)
commercialization of ZPEPC through implementation of various steps; (c) corporatization of ZPEPC and
its subordinate generating enterprises to establish them progressively as joint-stock companies or
limited-liability companies under the new companies law; these companies would be enabled to operate in a
competitive market environment, would have independent financial accounting, autonomous management,
be responsible for their own profits and losses.

12.     Tariffs Reform. Included in the project, ZPEPC intends to "unify" its pricing system by offering
a uniform tariff to all customers of similar categories. This would be a major step in rationalizing the
pricing system in Zhejiang Province. The work for this uniform tariff would be carried out step by step
with the plan to be agreed by Zhejiang Provincial Government.

Project Implementation Experience and Results

13.     Construction Implementation. The construction for all components in the project has been
completed successfully and put into operation.

Beilungang Power Plant Project Phase II. All three units were put into the commercial operation from
August 15, 2000, September 5, 2000 and November 5, 2000 respectively.                 Comparing with the
commercial operation schedule proposed in the World Bank's SAR, Unit No. 3 was 12 months delay, Unit
No. 4 was in time and Unit No. 5 was 7 months earlier. Comparing with our country's requirement of
reasonable construction schedule, the operation time of whole project was 15 months earlier.

The major reasons of Unit No. 3 delay were caused by the design mistakes of boiler manufacturer. Total
18 months were taken for the correction from re-design and modification (including replacement of boiler
heating surface, re-arrangement of steam drum internals, re-location of burners, etc.).

Since the commercial operation, three units have made very obvious economic benefits and social benefits.
In year of 2001, total 10677375 MWh electricity was generated. The average daily load for each unit was
475.2 MW (average load rate was 79.2%), equivalent availability was 89.60%, yearly average auxiliary
power consumption rate was 4.36%, and coal consumption on power supply was 322 g/kWh.

In year of 2002, total 10908550 MWh electricity was generated.           Yearly average auxiliary power
consumption rate was 4.34%, and coal consumption on power supply was 321 g/kWh.

The total budget for Phase II was RMB 12.27 billions. The actual investment was RMB 9.33 billions till


                                                   - 15 -

the project completed, in which, local fund was RMB 5.52 billions and foreign fund was JPY 22.4 billions
plus USD 256.92 millions.

500 kV Transmission. Whole component has been completed and in commercial operation.

      l 500 kV Jinhua substation and 500 kV Shaoxing-Jinhua transmission line were in commercial
            operation from December 19, 1997, 6 months earlier than original schedule;

      l 500 kV Shaoxing substation extension was in commercial operation from June 30, 1998, in
            time as original schedule;

      l 500 kV Pingyao substation extension was in commercial operation from December 31, 1998, 6
            months later than original schedule;

      l 500 kV Beilun-Shaoxing transmission line III (associated with Beilungang Phase II) was in
            commercial operation from November 7, 1999.

In addition to above items, the following transmission lines and substations were constructed under cost
saving of the World Bank Loan for the project:

      l 500 kV Wenzhou substation (1x750 MVA) was in commercial operation from June of 2001;


      l 500 kV Ningbo substation (1x750 MVA) was in commercial operation from March of 2002;


      l 500 kV Jinhua substation No. 2 transformer extension (1x750 MVA) was in commercial
            operation from May of 2001;

      l 500 kV Jinhua substation Jinhua-Wenzhou bay extension (1x500 kV) was in commercial
            operation from June of 2001;

      l 500 kV Hangdong substation extension (5x500 kV bays).            Two bays for Qinshan were in
            commercial operation from December of 2001, one bay for Wangdian in commercial operation
            from June of 2002 and two bays for Shaoxing would be in commercial operation from June of
            2003;

      l 500 kV Jinhua-Wenzhou transmission line (175 km) was in commercial operation from June of
            2001.

The actual investment for 500 kV transmission component (excluding items under cost saving) was RMB
911 millions plus USD 15.24 millions and JPY 1320.82 millions.

Hangzhou and Ningbo Distribution.          Whole component has been completed and in commercial
operation.

Hangzhou distribution: 3x220 kV substations and 8x110 kV substations were included. All substations
and associated loop networks were in commercial operation in the time period from the end of December
1995 to the end of February 2001. Comparing with the schedule proposed in the World Bank's SAR,
completion time for whole was delayed for 3 months.




                                                 - 16 -

Ningbo distribution: 4x220 kV substations and 8x110 kV substations were included. All substations and
associated loop networks were in commercial operation in the time period from the end of October 1995 to
the end of April 2001. Comparing with the schedule proposed in the World Bank's SAR, completion time
for whole was delayed for 6 months.

14.      Environmental Protection. Environmental protection during the construction time of Beilungang
power plant project phase II, Hangzhou/Ningbo municipal transmission upgrading, 500kv line and
substation have been carried out perfectly. There was not any environmental dispute that happened during
the construction period.    In Beilungang Project Phase II, 톀egulation of Environmental Protection
Management in Project Construction톣as implemented. All facilities for environmental protection were
designed, erected and operated together with main units at the same time. After inspected and monitored by
National and Provincial Environmental Monitoring Stations, the efficiency of ESP reached 99.7%, dust and
SO2 emission reached national standards, waste water treatment equipment operated well and waste water
reached the country's discharging standard. Also, the noise level at the plant boundary complied with the
requirement of National Standard GB12348-90III. In March of 2001, the whole environmental protection
facilities were through the acceptance inspection by National Environmental Protection Bureau.

In order to improve the monitoring method for environmental protection, four atmosphere monitoring
stations and one central station have been installed in Beilun, Xiaoshan, Jiaxing and Hangzhou with the
technical assistance from the World Bank and consulting company. No.1 and 2 are in Beilun, No. 3 in
Xiaoshan, No. 4 in Jiaxing and central station in Zhejiang Provincial Electrical Power Test and Research
Institute. All stations were operated from August of 1997 after acceptance by experts. After operation for
several years, it was found that the data collected by monitoring equipment was correct. The daily data of
NOX and SO2 monitored from all stations reached the requirement of environmental atmosphere quality I
standard for our country and the others reached quality II standard. TSP and PM10 were monitored once
per month and the data monitored reached the quality II standard.            Based on our government's
requirement, the air quality monitored from these four stations should reach quality II standard. Analyzed
from the daily data monitored, the influence to the environment was not only from the power plants owned
by ZPEPC, but also from the land traffic and other enterprises.

15.      Land Acquisition and Resettlement. All construction components of the project involve land
acquisition or relocation of existing residents. From 1993 to now, total 7195.04 Mu land was acquired,
including cultivated land 867.84 Mu. Total 71455.58 square meters of floor space were demolished, and
relocate 702 households (2,156 persons) through acquisition of agricultural land and urban land.

Based on the investigation the land acquisition and resettlement implemented with the project, resettlement
for persons involved both in countryside and cities was satisfied. The structure, quality and environment
of new houses were better after resettlement. The living area per person was larger than before. With
great efforts from various organizations and local governments, the jobs and income of resettled persons or
households were not affected.

16.      Technical Assistance. The technical assistance for Zhejiang Power Development Project includes:
(1) Wangjiangmen legal consultant; (2) transmission and distribution consultant; (3) environmental
consultant; (4) FMIS consultant; (5) financial advisory consultant together with Item (4) above; and (6)
design and construction management consultant for Beilungang Phase II.

All above consulting work have been completed. The major objectives of various technical assistances
have been obtained basically. At present, ZPEPC owned a relatively perfected project engineering and



                                                    - 17 -

construction management system with completed legal documents. The planning for development of
transmission and distribution has been made, the monitoring method for environmental protection was
improved and FMIS has been set basically.

17.     Training. The training program in the project includes: (a) senior construction manager training;
(b) senior labor, personnel and education manager training; (c) senior power plant manager training; (d)
senior manager training for power utility management and leadership in a competitive world; (e) senior
distribution manager training; and (f) training for erectors and operators.

All training programs in above have been implemented and major training targets reached. Through
various trainings, trainees learned some modern management methods relative to construction,
commissioning, operation, labor, personnel, education, finance, etc. and improved their management level
and capability. Then, the total management level of ZPEPC was also increased.

18.     Power Sector Reform. Based on the action plan proposed in the World Bank's SAR, the power
sector reform in Zhejiang Province was implemented step by step under the directing from the Central
Government and Provincial Government. In commercialization, identification of government and enterprise
functions has been undertaken and the base of separation of government and enterprise functions in future
has been formed; financial management information system (FMIS) has been set up; power purchase
agreements for most power plants were executed gradually; trail operation of power market in Zhejiang
Province was started and some portion of electricity generated from power plants was in competition in the
power market. In corporatization, identification and separation of fixed assets owned by State, Provincial,
Municipal and County Governments have been carried out; the structure of departments in ZPEPC has
been reformed and improved in order to meet the requirement of modern enterprise management system;
existing affiliated power generation plants in the province were gradually converted into limited-liability
companies, wholly owned subsidiaries, joint ventures or shareholding companies in accordance with the
new company law; the mode of "small owner, strong owner engineer and EPC contract" for project
construction has been set; the bidding and contract system for equipment and material procurement, as well
as selection of construction contractor were set. In regulation, a series of legal documents or regulations
have been issued based on new company law and power law.

19.     Tariff Reform. The major purpose of tariff reform in Zhejiang Province was to "unify" its pricing
system by offering a uniform tariff to all customers of similar categories. The tariff reform was started
from 1995 under the leadership of the Provincial Government. Since then, ZPEPC has drafted total 10
editions of "Tariff Reform Plan" based on many investigations and different opinions from various sectors
and customers. No. 10 edition of "Tariff Reform Plan" was submitted to Zhejiang Provincial Government
for approval at the end of 1996.

Through many discussions, the policy of uniform tariff in Zhejiang Province was implemented from
January 1, 2000 after approved by Zhejiang Provincial Government and State Planning and Development
Committee. The average price after uniform was reduced from 0.618 RMB Yuan per kWh to 0.595 RMB
Yuan per kWh.

20.     Project Cost. The budget of Zhejiang Power Development Project in the Bank's SAR was RMB
7,532.1 millions, USD 368.6 millions and JPY 23,721.46 (including the World Bank Loan USD 247.05
millions plus JPY 18,721.46 millions, ECO USD 100.00 millions plus JPY 5,000.00 millions and Owner's
financing USD 21.55 millions).

After implementation, the total actual cost for the project is RMB 6,840.36 millions, USD 341.23 and JPY


                                                     - 18 -

23,721.46 million (including the World Bank Loan USD 219.99 millions plus JPY 18,721.46 millions,
ECO USD 99.69 millions plus JPY 5,000.00 millions and Owner's financing USD 21.55 millions). In
foreign financing, the cost saving USD 39.27 million (the Bank loan USD 35.54 millions and ECO USD
3.73 millions) for additional construction of 500 kV transmission and other items not in SAR is included.
The final saving is the Bank loan USD 27.06 millions and ECO USD 0.31 millions. The details are
indicated in following tables:



                          Table 1: Comparison between cost in SAR and cost actually used

                                                                          (Unit:Million)
                                            SAR                                      Actual Cost
  Item                         Local       Foreign         Total          Local               Foreign
                              (RMB)        (USD)          (RMB)          (RMB)          (USD)          (JPY)
  Beilungang II               4659.22       487.5         10999.6         5515.8        256.92       22400.64
  500 kV transmission          916.82        33.6          1353.4         911.1         15.24         1320.82
  Distribution                 958.62        52.9          1631.1         413.46         29.8
  Subtotal                    6534.66        574          13984.1        6840.36        301.96       23721.46
  Items with saving                                                                     39.27
  Total                       6534.66      574.00        13984.10        6840.36        341.23       23721.46




                                  Table 2: Actually used loan amount and cost saving:
                                                           (Unit:Million)
           Loan                 Amount of Loan                Actual Using                    Saving
                               USD          JPY            USD            JPY           USD             JPY
 Bank     loan   (include.
 crissp)                      247.05      18721.46        219.99        18721.46        27.06             0
 ECO                            100         5000           99.69          5000          0.31              0
 Self financing                21.55                       21.55                          0               0
 Total                         368.6      23721.46        341.23        23721.46        27.37             0

21.     Economic Rate of Return. In the World Bank's SAR, the internal economic rate of return
(IERR) for Beilungang Phase II was calculated based on the estimated generation prices (in 1993 prices)
that will be paid for the plants power output in 1998, its first year of operation, based on the tariff formula
in the Implementation Agreement. This yielded an IERR of 18.4 percent. The IERR of the ZPEPC
transmission and distribution plan was calculated using the difference between the estimated average price
paid by consumers and the purchase price at the generation level in Zhejiang Province in 1998 (in 1993
prices), the calculation yielded an IERR of 16.7 percent. On this basis the average IRR for the project
would be 18.2 percent.

Beilungang Phase II was partially in trial operation in 1999 and all units in commercial operation from
2001. According to the calculation, IERR from 1999 to 2026 was and will be 20.3 percent.

500 kV transmission and Hangzhou/Ningbo distribution were partially in operation from 1997 and in all in




                                                   - 19 -

commercial operation from 2001. According to the calculation, IERR from 1998 to 2026 was and will be
17.0 percent.

The World Bank on Project Performance Ratings

22.      From preparation to completion of the project, the World Bank on project performance is
satisfactory. During the time of preparation, the Bank dispatched a project mission organized by various
experts to Zhejiang Province and carried out investigation and appraisal work from all sides. The mission
proposed various action plans, objectives and indicators on project construction, environmental protection,
land acquisition and resettlement, technical assistance, training, financial management, power sector
reform, tariff reform, etc., including the results and risks. To address the weaknesses in ZPEPC, the
mission prepared relevant Terms of Reference (TORs) for ZPEPC's technical assistance bidding
documents.    In project implementation, the mission directed ZPEPC to complete various equipment
procurements based on the Bank's Procurement Guidelines, carefully reviewed ZPEPC's bidding
documents and bidding evaluation reports, and presented his comments after reviews. Based on the
procurement schedule, the mission adjusted reasonably loan disbursement schedule timely and assisted
ZPEPC to arrange each disbursement efficiently. The mission visited the project sites once per each
half-year (May and October of every year) and inspected and directed ZPEPC's work for the project.
During visits, the mission made various investigations to project progress, including loan using and
disbursement schedule. Based on actual situation, the mission assisted ZPEPC's staff to adjust project cost
and implementation schedule and gave out the comments to various problems happened during project
implementation. At the same time, the mission paid great attention to construction quality and schedule.
Specially, resettlement experts of the mission often visited families involved in resettlement, investigated
their living condition after resettlement and their opinions about resettlement work. In whole period, the
mission kept good cooperation and relationship with ZPEPC. The mission's work for this project was
highly appreciated by stakeholders.

Beneficiary on Project Ratings

23.      According to the stakeholders' meeting held in Hangzhou on November 7 and 8, 2002, the
beneficiary (ZPEPC) on project ratings is satisfactory from preparation to completion of the project. As
the beneficiary, ZPEPC managed whole process of the project. Based on the requirements of Loan
Agreement and Project Agreement with the World Bank and Staff Appraisal Report of the Bank, ZPEPC
carried out each work carefully. During the time of preparation, ZPEPC submitted all information needed
by the World Bank's mission and discussed all objectives, action plans, procedures, indicators, etc. with the
Bank's mission. In order to implement the project smoothly, ZPEPC organized some special groups and
assigned some special persons to manage various aspects such as project construction (including equipment
procurement, construction quality, cost control, schedule control, safety, etc.), environmental protection,
land acquisition and resettlement, technical assistance, training, power sector reform, etc.       With the
inspection of the Bank's mission, ZPEPC submitted his progress report to the World Bank once per half
year. The various schedules and progresses, quality, cost, existing problems, etc. were reflected in the
report. All special groups and persons worked very hard in order to obtain proposed results, objectives and
indicators. Through ZPEPC's management, great progress has been made in Zhejiang Power Development
Project and highly appreciated by the governments and World Bank.

Project Results

24.      The project results obtained are satisfactory. All objectives designed are basically reached: (1)
3x600 MW units of Beilungang Power Plant Phase II have been completed with high quality and high


                                                    - 20 -

standard and in commercial operation since 2001. The technical and economic indicators are first class in
China. The plant becomes main power source in Zhejiang Province; (2) 500 kV transmission component is
in commercial operation according to the schedule. The quality is satisfied. The component has higher
system reliability and lower line loss. The operation of this component ensures electricity output of
Beilungang Phase II, also lightens the pressure of Zhejiang Network and makes power supply and power
using in various districts more balanced; (3) Hangzhou and Ningbo distribution component is completed
and in commercial operation. The component improves obviously the power supply quality and power
using level in the cities of Hangzhou and Ningbo, lightens the pressure of electricity lack during peak time
and has higher system reliability and lower line loss; (4) Results of power sector reform are remarkable.
Commercialization and corporatization in ZPEPC and power plants in the province have been reached.
FMIS has been in operation between ZPEPC and various power enterprises or power supply bureaus.
Power market in Zhejiang Province is in trial operation with good function; (5) the policy of unified tariff
has been carried out.      The tariff after unified is lower than before; (6) Through various technical
assistances, whole management level and method of ZPEPC for project construction, sector reform, project
engineering and planning, finance and assets, environmental protection, legal document preparation, etc. are
improved highly; (7) All training programs are implemented on schedule. Special persons for engineering
management, enterprise management, planning, labor, personnel, education, finance, etc. are trained.

Consolidating and Perfecting Results of the Project

25.     Successful completion of the project means the good and solid foundation of power development in
Zhejiang Province has been made. In order to consolidate and perfect the results of the project, ZPEPC and
relevant power enterprises in the province will further reinforce management, make measurement, decrease
cost, promote unit efficiency, and improve technical and economic parameters to required performance
indicators. At the same time, the environmental protection will be strengthened and the pollution reduced,
arrangement of networks will be improved with high system reliability and low line loss, power market will
be perfected to more standardization and FMIS will be further strengthened and spread based on the
experiences from trial operation.

Experiences and Lessons Learned from the Project

26.     Experiences and lessons learned from the project includes: (1) supports from governments and
public are very important for smooth implementation of the project; (2) technical assistance is necessary,
specially for the components with high and new technology; (3) project executive groups and persons
involved need rich experiences; (4) bidding documents for equipment procurement should be prepared and
reviewed carefully and lawyers should be invited for comments; (5) equipment manufacturers and
subcontractors should have rich experiences and equipment provided should be of a standard proven
design; (6) delay of subcontractor selection will affect the manufacturing quality and delivery schedule of
equipment subcontracted; (7) in addition to equipment performance index, general technical level of the
equipment should be considered in bidding price; and (8) internal reporting system for each component
should be set in order to prepare the project progress report.




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                1
            Indicator/Matrix                Projected in last PSR           Actual/Latest Estimate




Output Indicators:
                                                                1
            Indicator/Matrix                Projected in last PSR           Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project

Note: The Log Frame Matrix was not yet introduced when the project was appraised. The key indicators
specified in the SAR were followed for monitoring (see tables below).




                                                  - 22 -

                          Key Dates of Implementation for Beilungang Phase II


                   Milestone Items                        SAR Date                 Actual Date

CIVIL WORKS
 Site preparation                                  01/01/95   -  10/30/95    01/01/95  -   08/28/95
 Piling
  Unit No. 3                                       11/01/95   -  04/30/96    08/28/95  -   04/30/96
  Unit No. 4                                       04/01/96   -  10/31/96    08/28/95  -   04/30/96
  Unit No. 5                                       11/01/96   -  05/31/97    08/28/95  -   04/30/96
 Main foundation
  Unit No. 3                                       05/01/96   -  06/30/97    08/06/96  -   12/30/96
  Unit No. 4                                       11/01/96   -  12/31/97    08/06/96  -   05/30/97
  Unit No. 5                                       06/01/97   -  07/31/98    08/06/96  -   05/30/97
PROCUREMENT
  Contract signing for boiler & turbine                          04/15/95                  05/09/95
INSTALLATION
 Boiler steel structure
  Unit No. 3                                       12/01/96   -  07/31/97    01/18/97  -   10/30/97
  Unit No. 4                                       08/01/97   -  03/31/98    07/20/97  -   02/28/98
  Unit No. 5                                       04/01/98   -  11/30/98    02/05/98  -   09/30/98
 T/G steel structure
  Unit No. 3                                       12/01/96   -  08/31/97    01/25/97  -   06/30/97
  Unit No. 4                                       11/01/97   -  07/31/98    07/18/97  -   12/30/97
  Unit No. 5                                       10/01/98   -  06/30/99    12/15/97  -   05/31/98
 Boiler & auxiliaries
  Unit No. 3                                       06/01/97   -  08/31/99    04/01/97  -   04/30/98
  Unit No. 4                                       02/01/98   -  08/31/00    10/01/97  -   10/20/99
  Unit No. 5                                       10/01/98   -  05/31/01    04/01/98  -   09/30/98
 T/G & auxiliaires
  Unit No. 3                                       02/01/97   -  08/31/99    05/01/97  -   04/30/98
  Unit No. 4                                       10/01/97   -  08/31/00    02/01/98  -   09/28/98
  Unit No. 5                                       10/01/98   -  05/31/01    05/01/98  -   08/15/99
SYNCHRONIZARION
  Unit No. 3                                                     03/01/99                  12/24/98
  Unit No. 4                                                     03/01/00                  11/19/99
  Unit No. 5                                                     12/01/00                  05/01/00
COMMERCIAL OPERATION
  Unit No. 3                                                     09/01/99                  11/04/00
  Unit No. 4                                                     09/01/00                  08/15/00
  Unit No. 5                                                     06/01/01                  10/05/00




                                            - 23 -

                              Key Dates of Implementation for T&D Components


                 Milestone Description                                 SAR Date                    Actual Date

500kV TRANSMISSION COMPONENT
   Bidding and contract award                                   04/01/95    -   09/30/95                   11/01/95
   Civil works                                                  07/01/95    -   09/30/96     11/01/95   -  12/19/98
   Structure installation                                       10/01/96    -   03/31/97     05/01/96   -  12/31/96
   Equipment erection                                           04/01/97    -   12/31/97     12/01/96   -  12/19/98
   Test and commissioning                                       03/15/98    -   04/30/98     11/03/97   -  12/19/98
   Completion                                                                   05/31/98                   12/19/98
DISTRIBUTION COMPONENT *
   Bidding and contract award                                   02/01/98    -   08/31/98     05/06/97   -  07/28/99
   Civil works                                                  09/01/98    -   03/31/00     07/12/97   -  09/20/00
   Cable construction                                           01/01/99    -   03/31/00     03/22/99   -  10/11/00
   Line installation                                            09/01/99    -   06/30/00     03/15/99   -  09/30/00
   Equipment erection                                           04/01/00    -   09/30/00     12/20/00   -  02/20/01
   Test and commissioning                                       10/15/00    -   11/15/00     02/25/01   -  03/20/01
   Completion                                                                   11/30/00                   04/30/01

  Note: * The component was to be implemented in two phases according to the original plan;
          This plan was changed during project implementation; instead of two phases,
          the component was actually implemented in one combined phase.


                                                         ZPEPC
                                                 Operational Indicators


               Indicator                         Unit          1998         1999       2000        2001       2002

Standard coal consumption                      g/kWh               364         386         375         347       342
Transmission loss                                 %               2.20        2.16        1.94       1.89        1.26
Distribution loss                                 %               5.04        4.95        4.96       4.94        4.33
System reliability 1/                             %             99.674      99.758      99.871      99.891    99.914
Equivalent availability factor 2/                 %                                      91.010     90.920
Unplanned outage factor                           %                                       2.440      1.820
Planned outage factor                             %                                       7.810      6.440

Notes:
1/ System reliability is the same as the power supply reliability.
2/ Equivalent availability factor is identical with the definition given by European Standards.




                                                      - 24 -

                                           Beilungang Phase II
                                          Operational Indicators


                                                        Design /
                     Indicator                   Unit             1999    2000    2001    2002
                                                       Benchmark

Average coal consumption for power supply                                   331.2  321.52  320.95
   Unit No. 3                                    g/kWh     320     310.73   330.1  321.82  321.24
   Unit No. 4                                    g/kWh     320     301.52   333.3  320.73  320.63
   Unit No. 5                                    g/kWh     320     305.37   330.2  321.84  321.01
Auxiliary power consumption                                                  5.24    4.36    4.34
   Unit No. 3                                      %       5.5       3.88    5.03    4.37    4.42
   Unit No. 4                                      %       5.5       3.81    5.37    4.31    4.20
   Unit No. 5                                      %       5.5       3.89    5.25    4.39    4.43
Average load factor                                                         68.68   79.17   78.19
   Unit No. 3                                      %                        66.35   79.57   79.34
   Unit No. 4                                      %                        70.46   78.14   77.24
   Unit No. 5                                      %                        68.67    79.6   78.13
Equivalent availability factor
   Unit No. 3                                      %                        99.17   95.66   87.99
   Unit No. 4                                      %                        91.08   81.11   98.74
   Unit No. 5                                      %                        99.42   92.04   87.67
Unplanned outage factor
   Unit No. 3                                      %                            0     2.6    0.05
   Unit No. 4                                      %                         6.89     2.4    0.96
   Unit No. 5                                      %                            0    0.36    1.14
Planned outage factor
   Unit No. 3                                      %                            0    0.95    11.8
   Unit No. 4                                      %                            0   14.86       0
   Unit No. 5                                      %                            0    7.07   10.81




                                               - 25 -

                                              Beilungang Phase II
                                          Environmental Indicators


           Indicator                         Unit            Benchmark*           2001     2002

Water
   pH                                                             6-9             8.58     7.91
   COD (Cr)                                  mg/L                 100             78.3     64.67
   BOD5                                      mg/L                 20               3
   NH3-N                                     mg/L                 15              1.12
Flue gas
  Dust
   Unit No. 3                               mg/m3                 200             49.52    12.8
   Unit No. 4                               mg/m3                 200             52.87    29.66
   Unit No. 5                               mg/m3                 200             46.35    51.27
  SO2
   Unit No. 3                               mg/m3                                 824      1690
   Unit No. 4                               mg/m3                                 1261     1102
   Unit No. 5                               mg/m3                                 1008     1140
  NOx
   Unit No. 3                               mg/m3                                 570      576
   Unit No. 4                               mg/m3                                 558      532
   Unit No. 5                               mg/m3                                 522      541
ESP Efficiency
   Unit No. 3                                 %                   99.7            99.7     99.7
   Unit No. 4                                 %                   99.7            77.7     99.73
   Unit No. 5                                 %                   99.7            99.7     99.7
Noise
   Day time                                dB (A)                 65              < 65     < 65
   Night time                              dB (A)                 55              <55      <55

* Benchmarks are based on relevant Chinese standards (or design specification).




                                                  - 26 -

                                     ZPEPC--Key Financial Indicators

Year Ended December 32                   1994      1995     1996      1997     1998       1999     2000      2001  2002
Energy Sales(GWh)                       31151    34123     36449     38765    40712      45927    56138    64553  78162
Average Price(fen/kWh)                  27.48     31.38    30.48     33.88    34.67       36.74   41.21     42.43  42.1
Operating Revenue                        8561    10709     11111     13135    14115      16872    28852    31422  36975


Operating Income                          624       922       502      551       395       308     1730      2978  1846
Annual Capital Expenditures                 0      4015     3204      5221     5613       5921     7349      8818  7602
Rate Base
Long-term Debt                           9871    11250      7535      8990    13646      18247    22151    25714  25809
Debt Service                                0       994     1067      1252     1652       1843     2490      2876  3195
Cash in Banks                            3547      4042     4018      5699     5375       9081    11093    10997  10763


Rate of Return on
Revalued Assets(%)
Hist.Valued Assets(%)                     n.a.     2.8%     1.6%      2.0%     2.7%       3.0%     1.6%     2.9%   1.5%
Self Financing Ratio(%)                   n.a.   58.0%     41.6%    57.2%     51.5%      39.1%    33.0%    33.2%  31.4%
Operating Ratio (incl.sales tax)(%)      93%        91%      95%      96%       97%        98%     94%       91%   95%
Operating Ratio (w/o sales tax)(%)       92%        91%      95%      95%       97%        98%     93%       90%   94%
Debt as % of Debt & Equity               45%        41%      40%      39%       44%        48%     51%       53%   53%
Debt Service Coverage                     n.a.      2.40     2.61     3.14      2.74       2.33    1.98      1.91  1.71


Note:
Average Prices does exclude VAT
Rate of Return = net income / avg. rate base
Self Financing Ratio (%) = (net income after tax + depreciation - repayment-working capital) / 3 year average
                             of capital expenditure
Operating Ratio (%) = operating expense / operating revenue
Debt/Total Capital (%) = LT liability / (LT liability+Equity)
Debt Service Coverage (times) = (net income after tax + interest + depreciation) / debt service




                                                        - 27 -

                              ZPEPC--Balance Sheet (1994-2001)
                                    (Ymillion)


As of December 31              1994  1995      1996   1997   1998   1999  2000  2001  2002
ASSETS
Current Assets
 Cash                           3547   4042      4018  5699    5375  9081 11093 10997 10763
 Inventories                     357    854       368   561     501   664   564  1158   787
 Accounts receivable             440    902       413   629     994  1079   783   882   796
 Other receivable               4969   3040      1111  1953    3383  3950  1605  2006  3813
 Other current assets             57             1143   761     911   676   457   214   280
 Total Current Assets           9370   8838      7053  9603   11164 15450 14502 15257 16439
Long-term Investment             731   1927       338  1161    1763  2273  3597  3092  2850
Fixed Assets
 Plants in Service             16846  21958    18104  19659   23338 29951 39532 50310 50997
 Less: Accum. Depreciation      3320   4421      4481  5299    6572  8062  9353 12899 13971
 Net plant in service          13526  17537    13623  14360   16766 21889 30179 37411 37026
 Construcition WIP              4045   4300      2406  5617    8294  7528  4607  4421  3031
 Total Fixed Assets            17571  21837    16029  19977   25060 29417 34786 41832 40057
Deferred Assets                  263    324       124    81      87   109   123   237   285
tax debit deferred                                                                       79
TOTAL ASSETS                   27935  32926    23544  30822   38074 47249 53008 60418 59710


LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities
 Accounts Payable                290   1471      1192  1330    1552  2134  2624  2614  3268
 Other Payable                  4834   3349      1770  4021    3798  4394  3277  4516  5424
 Current Maturity of
 L-T Loans(incl.S-T loans)       193    196                                            1027
 Other current liabilities       710    486      1770  2424    1842  2674  3548  4351  1600
 Total Current Liabilities      6027   5502      4732  7775    7192  9202  9449 11481 11319
Long-term Debt                  9871  11250      7535  8990   13646 18247 22151 25714 25809
Equity
 Capital                        6878   7932      5368  5584    6441  6226  5885  5885  5885
 Capital Reserves               4142   6827      4817  6739    8084  9760 11501 12355 13093
 Earned Surplus                 1017   1415      1078  1268    1757  2047  2237  2661  3143
 Reatined Earnings                                 14   466     954  1767  1785  2322   445
 Total Equity                  12037  16174    11277  14057   17236 19800 21408 23223 22566
Tax credit deferred                                                                      16


TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY     27935  32926    23544  30822   38074 47249 53008 60418 59710




                                            - 28 -

                                   ZEPEC--Income Statements (1994-2002)


Year Ended December 31                      1994   1995 1996   1997   1998  1999  2000   2001  2002
Operating Revenues                           8561  10709 11111 13135   14115 16872 28852 31422  36975
 Sales Increase (%)                                 25%  3.8%    18%   7.5% 19.5% 71.0%   8.9% 17.7%
 Energy Sales(gwh)                          31151  34123 36449 38765   40712 45927 56138 64553  78162
 Average Tariff(fen/kwh)                    27.48  31.38 30.48  33.88  34.67 36.74 41.21  42.43 42.10
Total Operating Revenues                     8561  10709 11111 13135   14115 16872 28852 31422  36975
Operaing Expenses
 Fuel                                        2903   3190  2501  1839    1540   735   455  2380   1670
 Purchased Power                             2661   3532  5742  8033    9157 13717 18831 16426  23779
 Operating & Maintenance                     1575   1871  1333  1424    1676  1085  6470  6486   1751
 Sales Tax                                     62     79    56     70     93    68   185    261   234
 Depreciation                                 736   1115   977  1218    1254   959  1181  2891   2869
 Other costs                                                                                     4826
Total Operating expenses                     7937   9787 10609 12584   13720 16564 27122 28444  35129
Operating Income                              624    922   502    551    395   308  1730  2978   1846
Nonoperating Income                           344    259    72    110    805  1090  -108   -427   172
 Net Income Before Interest, Fixed Loss & Ta  968   1181   574    661   1200  1398  1622  2551   2018
 Total interest                               273    525   251    470    735   659   667    972   895
 Less: Interest during construction                    6    68    265    255   188    26     29
 Interest charged to operating                273    519   183    205    480   471   641    943   895
Foreign excharge loss                                       -1    -45    131   184   -77   -160    32
 Net Income Before Income Tax                 695    662   391    456    720   927   981  1768   1091
Income Tax                                    222    225   139    178    302   340   553    786   526
 Net Income                                   473    437   252    278    418   587   428    982   565




                                                 - 29 -

                                  ZPEPC--Funds Flow Statements (1994-2002)
                                                       (Ymillion)

Year Ended December 31                             1994   1995 1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Sources of Funds
 Net income before interest and realized fixed loss        965   435  483   898   947   920  1618  1492
 Depreciation & other non-cash items                      1425 1071  1307  1312  1671  2271  3034  2883
 Consumer donation                                             1099  1769  1125   620  1380   854   692
 Received refund of tax                                          110   50   125    42   348
 Other investment from external sources                                     907                     394
 Equity by gov. (incul. power construction fund)                  75  318   159  1021
 Total Internal Sources                                   2390 2790  3927  4526  4301  4919  5506  5461
Debt Service
 Interest charged to operation                             519   183  205   480   471   563   783   895
 Debt repayment                                            475   884 1047  1172  1372  1927  2093  2300
 Total Debt Service                                        994 1067  1252  1652  1843  2490  2876  3195
Net Internal Sources                                      1396 1723  2675  2874  2458  2429  2630  2266
Borrowings
 Proposed Beilungang II - IBRD loans                        52   198  540  1413   594   100   243    58
 Proposed Beilungang II - ECO                              500   249  166   331
 Proposed Beilungang II - Local Borrowing                  471   576  613   444   500   654
 Other borrowings                                                366 1287  7075  8169  8024  6668  9403
 Total Borrowings                                         1023 1389  2606  9263  9263  8778  6911  9461
Equity Contribution                                       4137   360  810   920  1380     0     0
Capital Contrbution(connection chanrge)                   1215 1099  1973  1344  1677  1729    85
TOTAL SOURCES                                             7771 4571  8064 14401 14778 12936  9626 11727


APPLICATIONS OFFUNDS
Capital Expenditures
 Beilungang II project                                     381   827 2011  2897  2141   693   382
 Other construction expenditures                          3627 2309  2945  2461  3592  6630  8407  7570
 Interest During Contruction                                 7    68  265   255   188    26    29    32
 Total Capital Expenditure                                4015 3204  5221  5613  5921  7349  8818  7602
Long-term Investment                                      1233   189  844  1887   377   511   499  -140
Operational Requirements                                   471   594  586   644   904  1597  1328  1750


TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                        5719 3987  6651  8144  7202  9457 10645  9212
Net in(de)creases in cash                                 2052   584 1413  6257  7576  3479 -1019  2515




                                                     - 30 -

                                                     Financial Statements of Beilungang Phase II
                                                          Key Financial Indicators(1999-2006)
                                                                       (Y million)


Year Ended December 31                  1999        2000      2001      2002      2003    2004   2005  2006  2007  2008  2009


Energy Sales (GWh)                       1,630      5,268    10,206     10,409     9,455   9,455 9,455 9,455 9,455 9,455 9,455
Average Price (fen/kWh)                      36          32        31       31       30       30    30    30    30    30    30
Operating Revenue                          594      1,693      3,147     3,199     2,828   2,828 2,828 2,828 2,828 2,828 2,828

Operating Income                           164         354     1,092      907       592      592   592   592   592   592   592
Annual Capital Expenditures              1,583         370       519      117       342      -     -     -     -     -     -
Long-term Debt                           5,882      5,522      5,084     4,323     3,806   3,071 2,522 1,880 1,226   467   -50
Debt Service                               763      1,614        638     1,034      785      735   549   642   654   759   517
Cash in Banks                              184         112       449      186       160      343   685   915 1,114 1,182 1,464

Rate of Return on
Hist.Valued Assets(%)                        4%          6%      14%      12%        9%      10%   11%  13%    15%   19%  25%
Operating Ratio (incl.sales tax)(%)        72%         79%       65%      72%       79%      79%   79%  79%    79%   79%  79%
Operating Ratio (w/o sales tax)(%)         71%         78%       64%      70%       78%      78%   78%  78%    78%   78%  78%
LT Debt as % of LT Debt & Equity           65%         68%       58%      59%       55%      50%   42%  33%    19%    4%   -2%
Debt Service Coverage                     0.22        0.56       2.34     1.37      1.48    1.57  2.09  1.78  1.73  1.48  2.15

Notes:
Operating Ratio (%) = operating expense / operating revenue
LT Debt/LT Debt + Equity(%) = LT liability / (LT liability+Equity)
Debt Service Coverage (times) = (net income after tax + interest + depreciation) / debt service




                                                                  - 31 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                Appraisal      Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                                                Estimate         Estimate          Appraisal
                       Component                               US$ million      US$ million
Beilungang Phase II                                              905.20             996.13            110.05
500 kv Transmission a/                                           398.90             363.68             91.17
Hangzhou Distribution                                             72.90              47.17             64.71
Ningbo Distribution                                               68.90              47.16             68.46
Preparation/Implementation                                        24.20               7.15             29.55
Institutional Development                                         13.80              12.57             91.09
Others                                                                               19.96

Total Baseline Cost                                             1483.90            1493.82
  Physical Contingencies                                          68.10
  Price Contingencies                                             22.10
                          Total Project Costs                   1574.10            1493.82
                            Interest during construction         534.20             121.25             22.70
                    Total Financing Required                    2108.30            1615.07
Notes:
a/ The "Appraisal Estimate" includes $290 million for the new transmission extension (that was financed
partly by the Bank loan savings).
b/ The IDC (Appraisal Estimate) includes $29 million for the new transmission extension component.


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                          1
                                                  Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB                   2         N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                      Other
1. Works                             0.00             0.00             0.00           368.40          368.40
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
2. Goods                            501.70            0.00             6.00           333.50          841.20
                                   (381.50)          (0.00)            (6.00)         (0.00)         (387.50)
3. Services                          0.00             0.00             17.30           0.00           17.30
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)           (12.50)         (0.00)         (12.50)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00             0.00             0.00            28.70          28.70
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                     0.00             0.00             0.00            28.50          28.50
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00             0.00             0.00            0.00            0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
   Total                            501.70            0.00             23.30          759.10         1284.10
                                   (381.50)          (0.00)           (18.50)         (0.00)         (400.00)
Notes: The above costs are those as stated in SAR; they do not include the new transmission extension
component (that was
financed partly by the Bank loan savings) for which the estimated cost was $290 million.



                                                  - 32 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               0.00              0.00            595.30            595.30
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   2. Goods                                486.57              0.00             26.19            343.78            856.54
                                          (364.96)            (0.00)            (4.88)            (0.00)          (369.84)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00             19.54             0.00             19.54
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (19.54)            (0.00)           (19.54)
   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             3.51              3.51
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             18.92            18.92
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               486.57              0.00             45.73            961.51           1493.81
                                          (364.96)            (0.00)           (24.42)            (0.00)          (389.38)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Beilungang Phase II            309.20       446.00      150.00       284.18       569.03     142.92      91.9     127.6     95.3
500 kV Transmission a/         29.70        369.20                   53.14        310.53                 178.9     84.1
Hangzhou Distribution          24.30        48.60                    15.10         32.07                 62.1      66.0
Ningbo Distribution            22.50        46.40                    15.10         32.07                 67.1      69.1
Preparation &                   2.20        22.00                     2.29         4.86                  104.1     22.1
Implementation
Institutional Development       9.30         4.50                    12.57                               135.2     0.0
Others                                                                7.00         12.96
Contingencies                   2.80        87.40                                                         0.0      0.0
IDC b/                                      534.20                                121.25                           22.7
Total                          400.00      1239.30      150.00       389.38       1082.77    142.92      97.3      87.4     95.3

   Notes:
   a/ The "Appraisal Estimate - Govt." includes $290 million for the new transmission extension (that was
   financed partly by the Bank loan savings).
   b/ The "Appraisal Estimate - Govt." includes $29 million for the new transmission extension component.




                                                           - 33 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

1.       EIRR of Beilungang II Component

Basic Assumptions of Calculation


1) Manufacturing Unit Value Index & Official Exchange Rate
                     1991     1992    1993     1994  1995   1996   1997     1998     1999   2000    2001   2002
    MUV (previous year = 100)
     RMB            109.5    115.3   126.6    110.4 105.9  104.0  101.7     99.8     99.6  101.1    100.4  100.5
     USD            102.0    107.0   106.0    110.0 119.0  114.0  108.0    106.0    103.3   97.3     95.9   95.0
    Exchange Rate             5.51    5.76     8.62  8.35    8.31  8.29     8.28     8.28   8.27     8.27   8.27
    Price Index (2002 constant)
                     1991     1992    1993     1994  1995   1996   1997     1998     1999   2000    2001   2002
     RMB              54.6    63.0    79.8     88.0  93.2    97.0  98.6     98.4     98.0   99.1     99.5  100.0
     USD              56.3    60.3    63.9     70.3  83.6    95.3 103.0    109.1    112.8  109.7    105.3  100.0


2) Shadow Price
    (i) Standard Conversion Factor                 1.08
    (ii) Coal Price Calculation
     FOB price in Qinhuangdao                      260    Yuan/tonb (price in April 2003)
     LHV                                           5800   kcal/kg
     Sea transportation distance:                  1400 km from Qinhuangdao to Beilungang
     Transportation cost                           0.02   Yuan/ton-km
     Transportation losses                         1%
     Load and Unload charges                       10     yuan/ton
     Coal price in Beilungang                      272.7  yuan/ton         329.2 yuan/tce coal equivalent
    (iii) Capital Cost of Beilungang II Project
    Financial Cost - Current Price                                                       million Yuan
                                                     1995   1996   1997     1998     1999   2000    2001 Total
    mill. Yuan     Local                            375.0  725.1 1109.1 1316.8      989.7  726.2    273.9 5515.8
                       in which: IDC                  6.5    68.3 265.0    255.4    188.1   26.0     29.1  838.3
                   Foreign                            0.0  101.5  902.8 1581.0 1151.3      -33.6    108.3 3811.3
                   Total                            375.0  826.7 2011.9 2897.8 2141.0      692.5    382.3 9327.1
    mill. USD      Local                             44.9    87.3 133.8    159.0    119.5   87.8     33.1  665.4
                       in which: IDC                  0.8     8.2  32.0     30.8     22.7     3.1     3.5  101.2
                   Foreign                            0.0    12.2 108.9    190.9    139.0    -4.1    13.1  460.1
                   Total                             44.9    99.5 242.7    350.0    258.6   83.7     46.2 1125.6
    Financial Cost (IDC Excluded)
                   Local   mill. Y                  368.5  656.9  844.1 1061.3      801.6  700.2    244.9 4677.5
                   Foreign mill. $                    0.0    12.2 108.9    190.9    139.0    -4.1    13.1  460.1
    Inflation Adjustment (2002 constant price)
                   Local   mill. Y                  395.2  677.4  855.9 1078.4      817.8  706.5    246.1 4777.2
                   Foreign mill. $                    0.0    12.8 105.8    174.9    123.3    -3.7    12.4  425.6
                   Total   mill. Y                  395.2  783.4 1730.5 2525.1 1837.5      675.9    349.0 8296.6
    Shadow Price of Beilungang II project
                                                     1995   1996   1997     1998     1999   2000    2001 Total
                   Total Investment                 426.8  846.0 1869.0 2727.1 1984.5      729.9    376.9 8960.3




                                                     - 34 -

3) Operation Cost         4978 Yuan/kW
                                                                                     1999    2000     2001   2002
   Financial Cost
   Variable Cost
                Fuel                                                                183.4 618.97 1165.9 1274.3
                Power Purchase
                Water                                                               0.624   1.869      3.48 3.076
   Fixed Cost
                Materials                                                                0   4.83 11.596 19.748
                Salary and Welfare                                                       0
                Maintenance                                                              0 17.973 18.609 51.306
                Other Costs                                                         37.21   65.03 76.732    148.1
   Total Cost                                                                      221.23 708.67 1276.4 1496.6
   Technical & Economic Indices
   Generation                                                                       1721.7  5559.3 10677.4 10908.6
   On-grid Tariff                        GWh
        VAT Included                     Yuan/MWh                                    426.5   376.0    364.0  359.5
        VAT Excluded                                                                 364.5   321.4    311.1  307.3
   Coal Consumption     1,000 ton                                                    640.0  2210.0   4220.0 4330.0
   LHV of Coal                           kJ/kg                                     24170.0  22998    22753 22591.0
   Coal Consumption Rate                 gce/kWh                                     306.6   312.0    306.9  306.0
   Plant Consumptio Rate                                                             5.3%    5.2%     4.4%   4.6%
   Annual Utilization HoursHour                                                                       5932   6060
   Commissioning Date of Each Unit:      #3--May 14; #4--Jan 31; #5--July 28
   Fixed O&M Rate                        %                                                            1.3%   2.6%


   Economic Cost
   Variable cost
                Fuel                                                                173.8   570.9 1078.6 1098.8
                Power Purchase
                Water                                                                 0.7      2.0      3.8    3.3
   Fixed cost
                Materials                                                             0.0      5.2     12.5  21.3
                Salary and Welfare                                                    0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0
                Maintenance                                                           0.0    19.4      20.1  55.4
                Other Costs                                                          40.2    70.2      82.9 160.0
   Total cost                                                                       214.6   667.8 1197.8 1338.8
       in which: Fuel Cost                                                          173.8   570.9 1078.6 1098.8
                O&M Cost                                                             40.9    96.9    119.3  240.0
   Note:        Fuel cost was calculated based on shadow price, other costs on standard conversion factor


4) Main Technical Indices after 2002
   Plant Consumption Rate                4.5%
   Annual Utilization Hours              5500    Hour            conservative when compared with historical data
   Economic Fuel Price                   329.2   Yuan/tce
   Coal Consumption Rate                 310     gce/kWh         based on historical operation data (1999-2002)
   On-grid Tariff (VAT excluded)         307.3   Yuan/MWh        actual data in 2002, VAT excluded
   O&M Cost                              3%      of total investment
   Other Indices
   Installed Capacity                    1800    MW
   Annual Generation                     9900    GWh

                                                    - 35 -

        Table 1. EIRR Calculation of Beilungang II Power Project
                           EIRR=     20.3%


 Year                           Cost                                    Benefit           Net Benefit
         Capital Cost  Fuel Cost    O&M Cost      Total Cost   Generation      Benefit

         mill. Yuan    mill. Yuan   mill. Yuan    mill. Yuan    GWh          mill. Yuan   mill. Yuan
 1995            426.8          0.0          0.0         426.8         0.0            0.0  -426.8
 1996            846.0          0.0          0.0         846.0         0.0            0.0  -846.0
 1997          1869.0           0.0          0.0        1869.0         0.0            0.0  -1869.0
 1998          2727.1           0.0          0.0        2727.1         0.0            0.0  -2727.1
 1999          1984.5         173.8         40.9        2199.1     1721.7           619.0  -1580.1
 2000            729.9        570.9         96.9        1397.8     5559.3          1998.8   601.0
 2001            376.9       1078.6        119.3        1574.7    10677.4          3839.0  2264.2
 2002                        1098.8        240.0        1338.8    10908.6          3922.1  2583.2
 2003                        1010.2        268.8        1279.0     9900.0          3559.5  2280.5
 2004                        1010.2        268.8        1279.0     9900.0          3559.5  2280.5
 2005                        1010.2        268.8        1279.0     9900.0          3559.5  2280.5
 2006                        1010.2        268.8        1279.0     9900.0          3559.5  2280.5
 2007                        1010.2        268.8        1279.0     9900.0          3559.5  2280.5
 2008                        1010.2        268.8        1279.0     9900.0          3559.5  2280.5
 2009                        1010.2        268.8        1279.0     9900.0          3559.5  2280.5
 2010                        1010.2        268.8        1279.0     9900.0          3559.5  2280.5
 2011                        1010.2        268.8        1279.0     9900.0          3559.5  2280.5
 2012                        1010.2        268.8        1279.0     9900.0          3559.5  2280.5
 2013                        1010.2        268.8        1279.0     9900.0          3559.5  2280.5
 2014                        1010.2        268.8        1279.0     9900.0          3559.5  2280.5
 2015                        1010.2        268.8        1279.0     9900.0          3559.5  2280.5
 2016                        1010.2        268.8        1279.0     9900.0          3559.5  2280.5
 2017                        1010.2        268.8        1279.0     9900.0          3559.5  2280.5
 2018                        1010.2        268.8        1279.0     9900.0          3559.5  2280.5
 2019                        1010.2        268.8        1279.0     9900.0          3559.5  2280.5
 2020                        1010.2        268.8        1279.0     9900.0          3559.5  2280.5
 2021                        1010.2        268.8        1279.0     9900.0          3559.5  2280.5
 2022                        1010.2        268.8        1279.0     9900.0          3559.5  2280.5
 2023                        1010.2        268.8        1279.0     9900.0          3559.5  2280.5
 2024                        1010.2        268.8        1279.0     9900.0          3559.5  2280.5
 2025                        1010.2        268.8        1279.0     9900.0          3559.5  2280.5
 Total         8960.3      26156.1        6679.6      41795.9    256566.9        92246.3  50450.4
NPV 2002      14324.3      11064.1        2627.3      28015.6    108672.1        39072.1  11056.4




                                           - 36 -

2.       EIRR of T&D Component

Basic Assumptions of Calculation

1) Manufacturing Unit Value Index & Official Exchange Rate
                          1991    1992     1993    1994   1995   1996  1997     1998     1999  2000  2001  2002
   MUV (begining of year = 100)
        RMB              109.5    115.3    126.6  110.4  105.9  104.0  101.7    99.8     99.6 101.1 100.4  100.5
        USD              102.0    107.0    106.0  110.0  119.0  114.0  108.0   106.0    103.3  97.3  95.9   95.0
   Exchange Rate                   5.51     5.76   8.62    8.35  8.31   8.29    8.28     8.28  8.27  8.27   8.27
   Price Index (2002 constant)
   RMB                    54.6     63.0     79.8   88.0    93.2  97.0   98.6    98.4     98.0  99.1  99.5  100.0
   USD                    56.3     60.3     63.9   70.3    83.6  95.3  103.0   109.1    112.8 109.7 105.3  100.0


2) Shadow Price
   Standard Conversion Factor                                    1.08
   Capital Cost of T&D Project in Zhejiang
   Financial Cost - Current Price                                                                    Yuan million
                                                   1995   1996   1997  1998     1999     2000  2001  2002  Total
   Total Investment of T&D (assumed local)        615.7  633.1 1258.8 1886.6 5160.4 7710.3 8303.6 6849.7  32418.1
   Inflation Adjustment (2002 constant price)
   Total Investment                               660.4  652.9 1276.4 1916.9 5264.2 7779.8 8345.1 6849.7  32745.3
   Total Investment (shadow price)                713.2  705.1 1378.5 2070.2 5685.3 8402.2 9012.7 7397.7  35364.9


3. Historical Operation                                                                                  Proj.
                                                   1995   1996   1997  1998     1999     2000  2001  2002  2003
   Energy Sales                 GWh              34123   36449  38765 40712    45927   56138  64290 78162 89886
        Growth Rate                                       6.8%  6.4%   5.0%    12.8%   22.2%  14.5% 21.6%   15%
   Average Sales Price
        VAT Included            Yuan/MWh          367.1  356.6  396.4  405.6   429.9    482.2 496.5 492.5
        VAT Excluded                              313.8  304.8  338.8  346.7   367.4    412.1 424.3 420.9
   Line losses                  %                 5.7%    5.5%  5.5%   5.0%     4.4%    4.4%   4.3%  4.1%  4.1%
   Average Purchase Price
        VAT Included            Yuan/MWh          255.9  296.4  329.4  362.4   383.8    391.5 403.4 392.7
        VAT Excluded                              218.8  253.4  281.6  309.8   328.0    334.6 344.8 335.7
   On-grid Tariff of Beilungang II
        VAT Included                                                           426.5    376.0 364.0 359.5
        VAT Excluded                                                           364.5    321.4 311.1 307.3
   Energy Incremental (1 year's construction period was assumed)
   Energy Sales                 GWh                       2326   4642  6589    11804   22015  30167 44039 55763
   Energy Purchase              GWh                       2462   4912  6933    12351   23026  31532 45912 58147


4) Main Technical Indices
   O&M Cost rate of T&D                         2.0%                 Data in 2002 was used.
   Line Losses Rate                             4.1%
   Power Purchase Price                         359.5  Yuan/MWh      VAT Included
   Power Sales Price                            492.5  Yuan/MWh      VAT Included




                                                       - 37 -

5) Basic Indices after 2002
   O&M Cost rate of T&D            0.02
   Line Losses Rate                0.041
   Power Purchase Price            359.5  Yuan/MWh  (VAT included)
   Power Sales Price               492.45 Yuan/MWh  (VAT included)
   Social Discount Rate            0.12
   Economic Life of T&D Project    25     years




                                          - 38 -

Table 2. EIRR Calculation of Zhejiang T&D Project (1995-2002 Timeslice analysis)
                                   EIRR = 17.0%
           Energy Incremental                             Cost                          Benefit

         Purchased                              Power
 Year               Energy Sales Capital Cost             O&M Cost   Total Cost  Gross         Net
           Power                               Purchase

           GWh         GWh       mill. Yuan    mill. Yuan mill. Yuan mill. Yuan mill. Yuan  mill. Yuan

 1995             0           0        713.2           0.0        0.0      713.2        0.0       -713.2
 1996         2462         2326        705.1         885.1       28.4     1618.6     1145.4       -473.2
 1997         4912         4642       1378.5        1765.7       55.9     3200.2     2286.0       -914.2
 1998         6933         6589       2070.2        2492.4       97.3     4659.9     3244.8     -1415.2
 1999        12351        11804       5685.3        4440.2      211.0   10336.6      5812.9     -4523.7
 2000        23026        22015       8402.2        8277.8      379.1   17059.1    10841.4      -6217.7
 2001        31532        30167       9012.7      11335.9       559.3   20907.9    14855.8      -6052.1
 2002        45912        44039       7397.7      16505.4       707.3   24610.5    21687.1      -2923.3
 2003        58147        55763                   20904.0       707.3   21611.3    27460.8       5849.5
 2004        58147        55763                   20904.0       707.3   21611.3    27460.8       5849.5
 2005        58147        55763                   20904.0       707.3   21611.3    27460.8       5849.5
 2006        58147        55763                   20904.0       707.3   21611.3    27460.8       5849.5
 2007        58147        55763                   20904.0       707.3   21611.3    27460.8       5849.5
 2008        58147        55763                   20904.0       707.3   21611.3    27460.8       5849.5
 2009        58147        55763                   20904.0       707.3   21611.3    27460.8       5849.5
 2010        58147        55763                   20904.0       707.3   21611.3    27460.8       5849.5
 2011        58147        55763                   20904.0       707.3   21611.3    27460.8       5849.5
 2012        58147        55763                   20904.0       707.3   21611.3    27460.8       5849.5
 2013        58147        55763                   20904.0       707.3   21611.3    27460.8       5849.5
 2014        58147        55763                   20904.0       707.3   21611.3    27460.8       5849.5
 2015        58147        55763                   20904.0       707.3   21611.3    27460.8       5849.5
 2016        58147        55763                   20904.0       707.3   21611.3    27460.8       5849.5
 2017        58147        55763                   20904.0       707.3   21611.3    27460.8       5849.5
 2018        58147        55763                   20904.0       707.3   21611.3    27460.8       5849.5
 2019        58147        55763                   20904.0       707.3   21611.3    27460.8       5849.5
 2020        58147        55763                   20904.0       707.3   21611.3    27460.8       5849.5
 2021        58147        55763                   20904.0       707.3   21611.3    27460.8       5849.5
 2022        58147        55763                   20904.0       707.3   21611.3    27460.8       5849.5
 2023        58147        55763                   20904.0       707.3   21611.3    27460.8       5849.5
 2024        58147        55763                   20904.0       707.3   21611.3    27460.8       5849.5
 2025        58147        55763                   20904.0       707.3   21611.3    27460.8       5849.5
 2026        58147        55763                   20904.0       707.3   21611.3    27460.8       5849.5
 2027        58147        55763                   20904.0       707.3   21611.3    27460.8       5849.5
 Total                              35364.9     568301.8      19720.9 623387.6   746393.5      123005.9
NPV 2002                            44674.4     218557.0       7961.0 271192.4   286866.0       15673.6



                                             - 39 -

3.       FRR of Beilungang II Component

Assumptions for Beilungang phase II FIRR calculation

1) Investment
   all investment costs are expenditures in norminal Yuan as recorded
   Item                                              1995       1996     1997     1998       1999     2000      2001      Total
   1. Domestic expenditures                           375.00    725.12 1109.10 1316.75       989.74   726.15    273.94 5515.80
   2. Foreign expenditures equivalent                   0.00    101.53   902.78 1581.00 1151.26        -33.61   108.32 3811.28
   3. Total investment (1+2)                          375.00    826.65 2011.88 2897.75 2141.00        692.54    382.26 9327.08
   4. IDC                                               6.49      68.25  265.00   255.42     188.11    25.96     29.08    838.31
   5. Total investment excluding IDC (3-4)            368.51    758.40 1746.88 2642.33 1952.89        666.58    353.18 8488.77
   6. Exchange rate                                    8.351      8.314   8.290    8.279      8.278    8.279     8.277
   7. Item 1 in USD                                   44.903    87.215 133.791 159.048 119.559        87.715    33.096    665.33
   8. Item 2 in USD                                     0.00      12.21  108.90   190.97     139.07     -4.06    13.09    460.18
   9. Total investment (7+8)                           44.90      99.43  242.69   350.01     258.63    83.66     46.18 1125.50
   10. Item 4 in USD                                    0.78       8.21   31.97    30.85      22.72     3.14      3.51    101.18
   11. Total investment excluding IDC (9-10)           44.13      91.22  210.73   319.16     235.91    80.52     42.67 1024.33
   Note: Total investment outlays = 8488.8 million Yuan or 1024.3 million USD equivalent; excluding IDC

2) Capacity:          1800 MW = 600 MW x 3

3) Energy Sales:
   Actual figures for 1999-2002
   Year                                                           1999     2000     2001       2002   2003 and ensuing years
   Energy Generation (GWh)                                      1721.7   5559.3 10677.4 10908.6       9900.0
   Energy Sals (GWh)                                            1630.5   5268.0 10206.0 10409.0       9454.5
   Pant Usage Rate (%)                                            5.3%    5.2%      4.4%       4.6%   4.5%
   Notes:
   9900 GWh for 2003 and ensuing years based on 5500 hours/year
   Energy generation = Capacity * Utilization Hours = 1800*5500/1000 = 9900 GWh
   Energy Sales = Energy Generation * (1-Plant Usage Rate) = 9900*(1-4.5%) = 9454.5 GWh

4) Tariff
   Actual tariffs are used for years up to 2002;
   Year                                                           1999     2000     2001       2002   2003 and ensuing years
   Tariff (fen/kWh)                                               36.45   32.14    30.83      30.73    30.00
   Tariff (fen/kWh, including Tax)                                42.65   37.60    36.07      35.95    35.10

5) Sales Revenue
   Actual revenues are used for years up to 2002;
   Year                                                           1999     2000     2001       2002   2003 and ensuing years
   Revenue (million Yuan)                                       594.30 1692.95 3146.49 3198.68 2836.35
   Revenue (million Yuan, including Tax)                        695.33 1980.75 3681.39 3742.45 3318.53

6) Fuel Cost
   Actual Fuel Cost are used for years up to 2002;
   Year                                                           1999     2000     2001       2002   2003 and ensuing years
   Fuel Cost (million Yuan)                                         183     619     1166       1274     1173
   Fuel Cost (million Yuan, including Tax)                          207     699     1318       1440     1326
   Coal Consumption (1000 Ton)                                      640    2210     4220       4330     3911
   Coal Consumption Rate (gram/kWh)                                 372     398      395        397      395
   Coal Price (Yuan/Ton)                                            287     280      276        294      300
   Coal Price (Yuan/Ton, including Tax)                             324     316      312        333      339




                                                            - 40 -

7) Other O& M Costs
   Actual Costs are used for years up to 2002;
   Year                                                              1999      2000       2001     2002 2003 and ensuing years
   Water Cost (million Yuan)                                        0.624      1.869     3.480    3.076  2.792
   Material (million Yuan)                                          0.000      0.483    11.596   19.748 20.000
   Wages & Welfare                                                  7.925    17.302     33.539   47.648 50.000
   Depreciation (million Yuan)                                   192.806 594.702 704.764 709.620 709.620
   Overhaul (million Yuan)                                          0.000    17.973     18.609   51.306 92.100
   Others (million Yuan)                                           37.210    65.030     76.732 148.102 150.000
   Total (million Yuan)                                          238.565 697.359 848.720 979.500 1024.512

8) Tax Rates
   Income Tax Rate:                                             33%        on taxable income
   VAT Rate:                                                    17%        on revenues of net VAT
   Urban Construction Fee:                                      7%         on net VAT
   Education Surcharge:                                         3%         on net VAT

9) Inflation rate (by mid of year)
                                                                     2002      2003       2004     2005   2006      2007-2021
   local cost                                                                  2.0%       2.0%    2.0%    2.0%      2.0%
   foreign cost                                                                1.6%       1.6%    1.6%    1.6%      1.6%
   local cost escalation factor                                    1.0000    1.0100     1.0302   1.0508 1.0718

10) Cases
   Inflation adjustment was made to see inflation impacts on the FIRR
   Case A       No adjustment for inflation;
   Case B       All cash operating costs adjusted for inflation;
   Case C       Both tariffs and cash operating costs adjusted for inflation.




                                                              - 41 -

                              FIRR Case A - No adjustment for inflation

                              FIRR before Tax = 13.54%                 FIRR after Tax =      11.20%

Year  Energy    Tariff               Operating revenue         Capital   Operating Costs       Net     Income      Net
       Sales                            Y million               Inv.      Y million          cashflow   Tax     cashflow
       GWh      with   without  with     without      without Y million               other                     after Tax
                VAT    VAT      VAT       VAT        VAT,tax              Fuel        O&M    Y million Ymillion Ymillion
1995                                                             368.5                          -368.5             -368.5
1996                                                             758.4                          -758.4             -758.4
1997                                                            1746.9                        -1746.9             -1746.9
1998                                                            2642.3                        -2642.3             -2642.3
1999     1630.5   42.7    36.5    695.4      594.3       586.2  1952.9       183.4       45.8 -1595.9        9.3  -1605.2
2000     5268.0   37.6    32.1   1980.8     1692.9      1670.0   666.6       619.0      102.7   281.8      48.8     233.0
2001    10206.0   36.1    30.8   3681.3     3146.4      3106.5   353.2     1165.9       144.0  1443.4     311.5    1131.9
2002    10409.0   36.0    30.7   3742.0     3198.3      3160.2             1274.3       269.9  1615.9     213.7    1402.3
2003     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1173.2       314.9  1312.1     140.3    1171.9
2004     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1173.2       314.9  1312.1     151.5    1160.6
2005     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1173.2       314.9  1312.1     158.8    1153.4
2006     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1173.2       314.9  1312.1     165.0    1147.1
2007     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1173.2       314.9  1312.1     168.7    1143.5
2008     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1173.2       314.9  1312.1     172.3    1139.8
2009     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1173.2       314.9  1312.1     175.9    1136.2
2010     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1173.2       314.9  1312.1     179.6    1132.6
2011     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1173.2       314.9  1312.1     183.2    1129.0
2012     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1173.2       314.9  1312.1     216.7    1095.4
2013     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1173.2       314.9  1312.1     424.6     887.5
2014     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1173.2       314.9  1312.1     428.3     883.9
2015     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1173.2       314.9  1312.1     431.9     880.3
2016     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1173.2       314.9  1312.1     433.9     878.3
2017     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1173.2       314.9  1312.1     433.9     878.3
2018     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1173.2       314.9  1312.1     433.9     878.3
2019     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1173.2       314.9  1312.1     433.9     878.3
2020     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1173.2       314.9  1312.1     433.9     878.3
2021     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1173.2       314.9  1312.1     433.9     878.3
2022     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1173.2       314.9  1312.1     433.9     878.3
Total  216603.4                 76470.1   65359.0     64526.5   8488.8    26705.6      6860.1 22472.0   6617.1   15854.9




                                                    - 42 -

                      FIRR Case B - All cash operating costs adjusted for inflation

                              FIRR before Tax = 12.00%                 FIRR after Tax =      9.84%

Year  Energy    Tariff               Operating revenue         Capital   Operating Costs       Net     Income      Net
       Sales                            Y million               Inv.      Y million          cashflow   Tax     cashflow
       GWh      with   without  with     without      without Y million               other                     after Tax
                VAT    VAT      VAT       VAT        VAT,tax              Fuel        O&M    Y million Ymillion Ymillion
1995                                                             368.5                          -368.5             -368.5
1996                                                             758.4                          -758.4             -758.4
1997                                                            1746.9                         -1746.9            -1746.9
1998                                                            2642.3                         -2642.3            -2642.3
1999     1630.5   42.7    36.5    695.4      594.3       586.2  1952.9       183.4       45.8  -1595.9       9.3  -1605.2
2000     5268.0   37.6    32.1   1980.8     1692.9      1670.0   666.6       619.0      102.7    281.8     48.8     233.0
2001    10206.0   36.1    30.8   3681.3     3146.4      3106.5   353.2     1165.9       144.0   1443.4    311.5    1131.9
2002    10409.0   36.0    30.7   3742.0     3198.3      3160.2             1274.3       269.9   1615.9    213.7    1402.3
2003     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1184.9       318.0   1297.3    135.4    1161.9
2004     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1208.6       324.4   1267.2    136.7    1130.5
2005     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1232.8       330.9   1236.5    133.8    1102.7
2006     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1257.4       337.5   1205.3    129.8    1075.5
2007     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1282.6       344.3   1173.4    122.9    1050.5
2008     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1308.2       351.1   1140.8    115.8    1025.1
2009     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1334.4       358.2   1107.7    108.4     999.2
2010     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1361.1       365.3   1073.8    100.9     972.9
2011     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1388.3       372.6   1039.3     93.1     946.1
2012     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1416.0       380.1   1004.1    115.1     889.0
2013     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1444.4       387.7    968.1    311.1     657.0
2014     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1473.3       395.4    931.5    302.6     628.9
2015     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1502.7       403.4    894.1    293.9     600.2
2016     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1532.8       411.4    856.0    283.3     572.7
2017     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1563.4       419.6    817.1    270.5     546.6
2018     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1594.7       428.0    777.5    257.4     520.0
2019     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1626.6       436.6    737.0    244.1     492.9
2020     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1659.1       445.3    695.7    230.4     465.3
2021     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1692.3       454.2    653.6    216.6     437.1
2022     9454.5   35.1    30.0   3318.5     2836.4      2800.2             1726.1       463.3    610.7    202.4     408.3
Total  216603.4                 76470.1   65359.0     64526.5   8488.8    32032.1      8289.8  15715.8  4387.5   11328.3




                                                    - 43 -

               FIRR Case C - Both tariff and cash operating costs adjusted for inflation

                              FIRR before Tax = 14.64%                 FIRR after Tax =      12.18%

Year  Energy    Tariff               Operating revenue         Capital   Operating Costs       Net     Income      Net
       Sales                            Y million               Inv.      Y million          cashflow   Tax     cashflow
       GWh      with   without  with     without      without Y million               other                     after Tax
                VAT    VAT      VAT       VAT        VAT,tax              Fuel        O&M    Y million Ymillion Ymillion
1995                                                             368.5                          -368.5             -368.5
1996                                                             758.4                          -758.4             -758.4
1997                                                            1746.9                        -1746.9             -1746.9
1998                                                            2642.3                        -2642.3             -2642.3
1999     1630.5   42.7    36.5    695.4      594.3       586.2  1952.9       183.4       45.8 -1595.9        9.3  -1605.2
2000     5268.0   37.6    32.1   1980.8     1692.9      1670.0   666.6       619.0      102.7   281.8      48.8     233.0
2001    10206.0   36.1    30.8   3681.3     3146.4      3106.5   353.2     1165.9       144.0  1443.4     311.5    1131.9
2002    10409.0   36.0    30.7   3742.0     3198.3      3160.2             1274.3       269.9  1615.9     213.7    1402.3
2003     9454.5   35.5    30.3   3351.7     2864.7      2828.2             1184.9       318.0  1325.3     144.6    1180.6
2004     9454.5   36.2    30.9   3418.7     2922.0      2884.8             1208.6       324.4  1351.8     164.6    1187.2
2005     9454.5   36.9    31.5   3487.1     2980.4      2942.4             1232.8       330.9  1378.8     180.8    1198.0
2006     9454.5   37.6    32.2   3556.9     3040.1      3001.3             1257.4       337.5  1406.4     196.1    1210.2
2007     9454.5   38.4    32.8   3628.0     3100.9      3061.3             1282.6       344.3  1434.5     209.1    1225.5
2008     9454.5   39.1    33.5   3700.6     3162.9      3122.5             1308.2       351.1  1463.2     222.1    1241.1
2009     9454.5   39.9    34.1   3774.6     3226.1      3185.0             1334.4       358.2  1492.5     235.4    1257.0
2010     9454.5   40.7    34.8   3850.1     3290.7      3248.7             1361.1       365.3  1522.3     248.9    1273.4
2011     9454.5   41.5    35.5   3927.1     3356.5      3313.7             1388.3       372.6  1552.8     262.6    1290.2
2012     9454.5   42.4    36.2   4005.6     3423.6      3379.9             1416.0       380.1  1583.8     306.4    1277.4
2013     9454.5   43.2    36.9   4085.7     3492.1      3447.5             1444.4       387.7  1615.5     524.7    1090.8
2014     9454.5   44.1    37.7   4167.4     3561.9      3516.5             1473.3       395.4  1647.8     539.0    1108.8
2015     9454.5   45.0    38.4   4250.8     3633.1      3586.8             1502.7       403.4  1680.8     553.5    1127.2
2016     9454.5   45.9    39.2   4335.8     3705.8      3658.6             1532.8       411.4  1714.4     566.6    1147.8
2017     9454.5   46.8    40.0   4422.5     3779.9      3731.7             1563.4       419.6  1748.7     577.9    1170.7
2018     9454.5   47.7    40.8   4511.0     3855.5      3806.4             1594.7       428.0  1783.6     589.5    1194.2
2019     9454.5   48.7    41.6   4601.2     3932.6      3882.5             1626.6       436.6  1819.3     601.2    1218.1
2020     9454.5   49.6    42.4   4693.2     4011.3      3960.1             1659.1       445.3  1855.7     613.2    1242.5
2021     9454.5   50.6    43.3   4787.1     4091.5      4039.3             1692.3       454.2  1892.8     625.5    1267.3
2022     9454.5   51.6    44.1   4882.8     4173.3      4120.1             1726.1       463.3  1930.7     638.0    1292.7
Total  216603.4                 91537.3   78237.0     77240.3   8488.8    32032.1      8289.8 28429.6   8583.1   19846.5




                                                    - 44 -

4.      FRR of T&D Component

Assumptions for T&D Component FIRR calculation

1) Investment: all investment costs are expenditures in norminal Yuan as recorded
                                                                                          Unit: million Yuan, million USD
                  Item                             1995     1996     1997     1998  1999  2000     2001    2002     Total
   T&D                                               616       633    1259     1887  5160  7710      8304   6850 32418
    Exchange rate                                   8.351    8.314    8.290    8.279 8.278 8.279    8.277  8.277
    Item 1 in USD                                      74        76     152      228  623    931     1003     828    3915

2) Energy Sals and purchase
   Actual figures for 1994-2002                                                                                 Estimated
   Year                                     1994    1995      1996    1997     1998  1999  2000      2001   2002     2003
   Energy Sales (GWh)                      31151 34123 36449 38765 40712 45927 56138 64290 78162 89886
   Incremental Energy Sales (GWh)                        0    2326    4642     6589 11804 22015 30167 44039 55763
   Line loses (%)                                    5.71      5.53    5.49     4.96  4.43  4.39     4.33    4.08      4.1
   Increamental energy purchase (GWh)                    0    2462    4912     6933 12351 23026 31532 45912 58147

3) Tariff
   Actual tariffs are used for years up to 2002;
   Year                                     1994    1995      1996    1997     1998  1999  2000      2001   2002     2003
   Sales Tariff (fen/kWh)                   27.5    31.4      30.5    33.9     34.7  36.7  41.2      42.4   42.1     42.1
   Sales Tariff (fen/kWh, incl. Tax)        32.2    36.7      35.7    39.6     40.6  43.0  48.2      49.6   49.2     49.2
   Tariff for purchas (fen/kWh)                     21.9      25.3    28.2     31.0  32.8  33.5      34.5   33.6
   Tariff for purchas (fen/kWh, incl. Tax)          25.6      29.6    32.9     36.2  38.4  39.1      40.3   39.3
   On-grid Tariff of Beilungang II
     VAT Included                                                                     42.7  37.6     36.4    36.0     35.1
     VAT Excluded                                                                     36.5  32.1     31.1    30.7     30.0
   Tariff for incremental purchased energy           30.0      30.0    30.0     31.0  36.5  32.1     31.1    30.7     30.0

4) O& M Costs of T&D
   2% of the fixed assets

6) Tax Rates
   Income Tax Rate:                       33%     on taxable income
   VAT Rate:                              17%     on revenues of net VAT
   Urban Construction Fee:                7%      on net VAT
    Education Surcharge:                  3%      on net VAT

7) Inflation rate (by mid of year)
                                                                     2002     2003  2004  2005     2006 2007-2021
   local cost                                                                 2.0%  2.0%  2.0%     2.0%    2.0%
   foreign cost                                                               1.6%  1.6%  1.6%     1.6%    1.6%
   local cost escalation factor                                     1.0000 1.0100 1.0302 1.0508 1.0718

8) Cases
   Inflation adjustment was made to see inflation impacts on the FIRR
   Case A         No adjustment for inflation;
   Case B         All cash operating costs adjusted for inflation;
   Case C         Both tariffs and cash operating costs adjusted for inflation.




                                                        - 45 -

                              FIRR Case A - No adjustment for inflation

                              FIRR before Tax = 13.04%                 FIRR after Tax =       10.11%

Year  Energy    Tariff               Operating revenue         Capital    Operating Costs       Net     Income      Net
       Sales                            Y million               Inv.        Y million         cashflow   Tax     cashflow
       GWh      with   without  with     without      without Y million Incremental                              after Tax
                VAT    VAT      VAT       VAT        VAT,tax             purchase      O&M    Y million Ymillion Ymillion
1995        0.0   36.7    31.4      0.0         0.0        0.0   615.7           0.0       0.0   -615.7       0.0   -615.7
1996     2326.0   35.7    30.5    829.5      709.0       696.9   633.1        738.6       25.0   -699.8       0.0   -699.8
1997     4642.0   39.6    33.9   1840.1     1572.7      1546.0  1258.8       1473.5       50.2 -1236.4        0.0  -1236.4
1998     6589.0   40.6    34.7   2672.8     2284.4      2245.6  1886.6       2147.7       87.9 -1876.6        0.0  -1876.6
1999    11804.0   43.0    36.7   5074.0     4336.8      4263.1  5160.4       4502.4      191.1 -5590.8        0.0  -5590.8
2000    22015.0   48.2    41.2  10614.7     9072.4      8918.2  7710.3       7399.8      345.3 -6537.2        0.0  -6537.2
2001    30167.0   49.6    42.4  14976.5   12800.5      12582.9  8303.6       9810.1      511.4 -6042.1     155.6   -6197.8
2002    44039.0   49.2    42.1  21687.1   18536.0      18220.9  6849.7      14107.2      648.4 -3384.4     394.7   -3779.1
2003    55763.3   49.2    42.1  27460.8   23470.8      23071.8              17444.2      648.4  4979.2     926.4    4052.8
2004    55763.3   49.2    42.1  27460.8   23470.8      23071.8              17444.2      648.4  4979.2     955.3    4023.9
2005    55763.3   49.2    42.1  27460.8   23470.8      23071.8              17444.2      648.4  4979.2     981.3    3998.0
2006    55763.3   49.2    42.1  27460.8   23470.8      23071.8              17444.2      648.4  4979.2   1004.7     3974.6
2007    55763.3   49.2    42.1  27460.8   23470.8      23071.8              17444.2      648.4  4979.2   1025.7     3953.5
2008    55763.3   49.2    42.1  27460.8   23470.8      23071.8              17444.2      648.4  4979.2   1044.7     3934.5
2009    55763.3   49.2    42.1  27460.8   23470.8      23071.8              17444.2      648.4  4979.2   1061.7     3917.5
2010    55763.3   49.2    42.1  27460.8   23470.8      23071.8              17444.2      648.4  4979.2   1077.1     3902.1
2011    55763.3   49.2    42.1  27460.8   23470.8      23071.8              17444.2      648.4  4979.2   1090.9     3888.3
2012    55763.3   49.2    42.1  27460.8   23470.8      23071.8              17444.2      648.4  4979.2   1103.3     3875.9
2013    55763.3   49.2    42.1  27460.8   23470.8      23071.8              17444.2      648.4  4979.2   1114.5     3864.7
2014    55763.3   49.2    42.1  27460.8   23470.8      23071.8              17444.2      648.4  4979.2   1124.6     3854.6
2015    55763.3   49.2    42.1  27460.8   23470.8      23071.8              17444.2      648.4  4979.2   1133.6     3845.6
2016    55763.3   49.2    42.1  27460.8   23470.8      23071.8              17444.2      648.4  4979.2   1141.8     3837.4
2017    55763.3   49.2    42.1  27460.8   23470.8      23071.8              17444.2      648.4  4979.2   1149.1     3830.1
2018    55763.3   49.2    42.1  27460.8   23470.8      23071.8              17444.2      648.4  4979.2   1155.7     3823.5
2019    55763.3   49.2    42.1  27460.8   23470.8      23071.8              17444.2      648.4  4979.2   1161.7     3817.5
2020    55763.3   49.2    42.1  27460.8   23470.8      23071.8              17444.2      648.4  4979.2   1167.0     3812.2
2021    55763.3   49.2    42.1  27460.8   23470.8      23071.8              17444.2      648.4  4979.2   1171.9     3807.3
2022    55763.3   49.2    42.1  27460.8   23470.8      23071.8              17444.2      648.4  4979.2   1176.2     3803.0
Total 1236848.0                606910.8  518727.2     509908.8 32418.1     389063.3    14826.4 73601.1  22317.4   51283.7




                                                    - 46 -

                              FIRR Case B - All cash operating costs adjusted for inflation

                                      FIRR before Tax = #NUM!                     FIRR after Tax =        #DIV/0!

 Year    Energy      Tariff                    Operating revenue         Capital     Operating Costs          Net     Income     Net
          Sales                                   Y million               Inv.         Y million            cashflow   Tax    cashflow
          GWh         with   without      with     without      without Y million  Incremental                                after Tax
                     VAT       VAT        VAT       VAT        VAT,tax               purchase     O&M      Y million Ymillion Ymillion
1995           0.0     36.7      31.4         0.0         0.0        0.0   615.7            0.0        0.0     -615.7      0.0   -615.7
1996        2326.0     35.7      30.5       829.5      709.0       696.9   633.1          738.6      25.0      -699.8      0.0   -699.8
1997        4642.0     39.6      33.9      1840.1     1572.7      1546.0  1258.8         1473.5      50.2    -1236.4       0.0  -1236.4
1998        6589.0     40.6      34.7      2672.8     2284.4      2245.6  1886.6         2147.7      87.9    -1876.6       0.0  -1876.6
1999      11804.0      43.0      36.7      5074.0     4336.8      4263.1  5160.4         4502.4     191.1    -5590.8       0.0  -5590.8
2000      22015.0      48.2      41.2     10614.7     9072.4      8918.2  7710.3         7399.8     345.3    -6537.2       0.0  -6537.2
2001      30167.0      49.6      42.4     14976.5   12800.5      12582.9  8303.6         9810.1     511.4    -6042.1     155.6  -6197.8
2002      44039.0      49.2      42.1     21687.1   18536.0      18220.9  6849.7       14107.2      648.4    -3384.4     394.7  -3779.1
2003      55763.3      49.2      42.1     27460.8   23470.8      23071.8               17618.6      654.8     4798.3     866.7   3931.6
2004      55763.3      49.2      42.1     27460.8   23470.8      23071.8               17971.0      667.9     4432.8     774.9   3657.9
2005      55763.3      49.2      42.1     27460.8   23470.8      23071.8               18330.4      681.3     4060.0     677.9   3382.1
2006      55763.3      49.2      42.1     27460.8   23470.8      23071.8               18697.0      694.9     3679.8     575.8   3104.0
2007      55763.3      49.2      42.1     27460.8   23470.8      23071.8               19071.0      708.8     3292.0     468.9   2823.0
2008      55763.3      49.2      42.1     27460.8   23470.8      23071.8               19452.4      723.0     2896.4     357.3   2539.0
2009      55763.3      49.2      42.1     27460.8   23470.8      23071.8               19841.5      737.5     2492.9     241.2   2251.6
2010      55763.3      49.2      42.1     27460.8   23470.8      23071.8               20238.3      752.2     2081.3     120.7   1960.5
2011      55763.3      49.2      42.1     27460.8   23470.8      23071.8               20643.0      767.3     1661.5       0.0   1661.5
2012      55763.3      49.2      42.1     27460.8   23470.8      23071.8               21055.9      782.6     1233.3       0.0   1233.3
2013      55763.3      49.2      42.1     27460.8   23470.8      23071.8               21477.0      798.3      796.5       0.0    796.5
2014      55763.3      49.2      42.1     27460.8   23470.8      23071.8               21906.6      814.2      351.0       0.0    351.0
2015      55763.3      49.2      42.1     27460.8   23470.8      23071.8               22344.7      830.5      -103.4      0.0   -103.4
2016      55763.3      49.2      42.1     27460.8   23470.8      23071.8               22791.6      847.1      -566.9      0.0   -566.9
2017      55763.3      49.2      42.1     27460.8   23470.8      23071.8               23247.4      864.1    -1039.7       0.0  -1039.7
2018      55763.3      49.2      42.1     27460.8   23470.8      23071.8               23712.4      881.3    -1521.9       0.0  -1521.9
2019      55763.3      49.2      42.1     27460.8   23470.8      23071.8               24186.6      899.0    -2013.8       0.0  -2013.8
2020      55763.3      49.2      42.1     27460.8   23470.8      23071.8               24670.4      916.9    -2515.5       0.0  -2515.5
2021      55763.3      49.2      42.1     27460.8   23470.8      23071.8               25163.8      935.3    -3027.3       0.0  -3027.3
2022      55763.3      49.2      42.1     27460.8   23470.8      23071.8               25667.0      954.0    -3549.3       0.0  -3549.3
Total   1236848.0                        606910.8  518727.2     509908.8 32418.1      468265.9    17770.2    -8545.4    4633.9 -13179.3

Note: For Case B, the accumulative net cashflow is zero for two times, that is the reason for no results on the FIRR for the
whole calculation period. For this case, the maximum FIRR is 2.99% before tax, and 0.61% after tax.




                                                              - 47 -

               FIRR Case C - Both tariff and cash operating costs adjusted for inflation

                              FIRR before Tax = 14.55%                 FIRR after Tax =       11.45%

Year  Energy    Tariff               Operating revenue         Capital    Operating Costs       Net     Income      Net
       Sales                            Y million               Inv.        Y million         cashflow   Tax     cashflow
       GWh      with   without  with     without      without Y million Incremental                              after Tax
                VAT    VAT      VAT       VAT        VAT,tax             purchase      O&M    Y million Ymillion Ymillion
1995        0.0   36.7    31.4      0.0         0.0        0.0   615.7           0.0       0.0   -615.7       0.0   -615.7
1996     2326.0   35.7    30.5    829.5      709.0       696.9   633.1        738.6       25.0   -699.8       0.0   -699.8
1997     4642.0   39.6    33.9   1840.1     1572.7      1546.0  1258.8       1473.5       50.2 -1236.4        0.0  -1236.4
1998     6589.0   40.6    34.7   2672.8     2284.4      2245.6  1886.6       2147.7       87.9 -1876.6        0.0  -1876.6
1999    11804.0   43.0    36.7   5074.0     4336.8      4263.1  5160.4       4502.4      191.1 -5590.8        0.0  -5590.8
2000    22015.0   48.2    41.2  10614.7     9072.4      8918.2  7710.3       7399.8      345.3 -6537.2        0.0  -6537.2
2001    30167.0   49.6    42.4  14976.5   12800.5      12582.9  8303.6       9810.1      511.4 -6042.1     155.6   -6197.8
2002    44039.0   49.2    42.1  21687.1   18536.0      18220.9  6849.7      14107.2      648.4 -3384.4     394.7   -3779.1
2003    55763.3   49.7    42.5  27735.4   23705.5      23302.5              17618.6      654.8  5029.0     942.8    4086.2
2004    55763.3   50.7    43.4  28290.1   24179.6      23768.5              17971.0      667.9  5129.6   1004.9     4124.7
2005    55763.3   51.7    44.2  28855.9   24663.2      24243.9              18330.4      681.3  5232.2   1064.7     4167.4
2006    55763.3   52.8    45.1  29433.0   25156.4      24728.8              18697.0      694.9  5336.8   1122.7     4214.2
2007    55763.3   53.8    46.0  30021.7   25659.6      25223.4              19071.0      708.8  5443.5   1178.9     4264.6
2008    55763.3   54.9    46.9  30622.1   26172.8      25727.8              19452.4      723.0  5552.4   1233.8     4318.6
2009    55763.3   56.0    47.9  31234.6   26696.2      26242.4              19841.5      737.5  5663.5   1287.5     4375.9
2010    55763.3   57.1    48.8  31859.3   27230.1      26767.2              20238.3      752.2  5776.7   1340.3     4436.5
2011    55763.3   58.3    49.8  32496.5   27774.7      27302.6              20643.0      767.3  5892.3   1392.2     4500.1
2012    55763.3   59.4    50.8  33146.4   28330.2      27848.6              21055.9      782.6  6010.1   1443.5     4566.6
2013    55763.3   60.6    51.8  33809.3   28896.8      28405.6              21477.0      798.3  6130.3   1494.4     4635.9
2014    55763.3   61.8    52.9  34485.5   29474.8      28973.7              21906.6      814.2  6252.9   1544.9     4708.0
2015    55763.3   63.1    53.9  35175.2   30064.3      29553.2              22344.7      830.5  6378.0   1595.2     4782.7
2016    55763.3   64.3    55.0  35878.7   30665.6      30144.3              22791.6      847.1  6505.5   1645.5     4860.1
2017    55763.3   65.6    56.1  36596.3   31278.9      30747.1              23247.4      864.1  6635.7   1695.8     4939.9
2018    55763.3   66.9    57.2  37328.2   31904.5      31362.1              23712.4      881.3  6768.4   1746.2     5022.2
2019    55763.3   68.3    58.4  38074.8   32542.5      31989.3              24186.6      899.0  6903.7   1796.8     5106.9
2020    55763.3   69.6    59.5  38836.3   33193.4      32629.1              24670.4      916.9  7041.8   1847.7     5194.1
2021    55763.3   71.0    60.7  39613.0   33857.3      33281.7              25163.8      935.3  7182.6   1899.0     5283.6
2022    55763.3   72.5    61.9  40405.3   34534.4      33947.3              25667.0      954.0  7326.3   1950.7     5375.6
Total 1236848.0                731592.3  625292.6     614662.6 32418.1     468265.9    17770.2 96208.4  29777.8   66430.6




                                                    - 48 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                        (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year     Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              Identification              7    power engineer (2)
              (6/28  7/3/93)                   energy economist
                                                financial analyst (2)
                                                thermal plant specialist
                                                environmental specialist
              Preappraisal (10/18          7    power engineer (2)
               10/31/93)                       thermal plant specialist
                                                energy economist
                                                resettlement specialist
                                                environmental specialist
                                                financial analyst (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Appraisal (04/04           14     power engineer (4)
               04/15/94)                       thermal plant specialist
                                                energy economist
                                                resettlement specialist
                                                financial analyst (4)
                                                lawyer
                                                environmental specialist (2)
              Roadshow for                 3    Division Chief
              Guarantee                         Financial Analyst
              (11/14  11/18/94)                Lawyer

 Supervision
              Resettlement                 2    Power Engineer
              Supervision                       Resettlement specialist
              Mission
              (10/25-10/29/95)
              04/18/1996                   3    Sr. Power Engineer (1);               HS             HS
                                                Financial Analyst (1); Consultant
                                                (resettlement) (1)
              12/02/1996                   3    Financial Analyst (1); Sr. Power      S              HS
                                                Engineer (1); Consultant
                                                (resettlement) (1)
              06/09/1997                   3    Pr. Financial Analyst (1); Pr.        S              HS
                                                Power Engineer (1); Consultant
                                                (resettlement) (1)
              12/08/1997                   3    Pr. Power Engineer (1); Pr.           S              HS
                                                Financial Analyst (1); Consultant
                                                (resettlement) (1)
              05/19/1998                   4    Pr. Power Engineer (1); Power         S              HS
                                                Engineer (1); Pr. Financial
                                                Analyst (1); Consultant
                                                (resettlement) (1)
              11/22/1998                   3    Pr. Power Engineer (1);               S              HS



                                                 - 49 -

                                                     Restructuring Specialist (1);
                                                     Consultant (resettlement) (1)
               09/06/1999                       5    Pr. Power Engineer (1); Sr.          S              HS
                                                     Energy Specialist (1); Energy
                                                     Specialist (1); Financial
                                                     Management Specialist (1);
                                                     Consultant (resettlement) (1)
               05/07/2000                       9    Pr. Power Engineer (1); Pr.          HS             HS
                                                     Energy Specialist (1); Sr. Energy
                                                     Specialist (1); Sr. Power
                                                     Engineer (1); Power Engineer
                                                     (1); Energy Specialist (1);
                                                     Financial Mgmt Specialist (1);
                                                     Consultant (IT) (1); Consultant
                                                     (resettlement) (1)
               06/08/2001                       6    Lead Power Engineer (1); Lead        HS             HS
                                                     Energy Specialist (1); Sr. Energy
                                                     Specialist (1); Consultants (3)
               11/11/2001                       3    Lead Power Engineer (1); Lead        HS             HS
                                                     Energy Specialist (1); Operations
                                                     Officer (1)
               04/13/2002                       1    Lead Power Engineer                  HS             HS
               09/27/2002                       2    Sr. Operations Officer,              HS             HS
                                                     Consultant (resettlement)

 ICR
               Stakeholder                     7     Lead Power Specialist (1),
               Workshop                              Sr. Operations Officer (1),
               11/2002                               Lead Power Engineer (1),
                                                     YP (1), Consultants (3)
                                                     (power market, resettlement,
                                                     environment)
               09/09/2003                      2     Lead Power Engineer (1)              HS             HS
                                                     Sr. Operations Officer (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                          Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                     US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                      80.8                            347.3
  Appraisal/Negotiation                           65.0                            285.6
  Supervision                                     77.6                            400.0
  ICR                                             7.6                               61.5
  Total                                         231.0                           1,094.4
Note: The above staff cost reflect the full cost, which includes a 25% regional mark-up for prior FY up to
1999.




                                                     - 50 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 51 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 52 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 l ZPEPC's Project Completion Report;


 l Project progress reports;


 l Ex-post project economic analysis, prepared by SP Power Economic Research Center;


 l Ex-post project financial analysis, prepared by SP Power Economic Research Center;


 l Project files, containing full records of project preparation and supervision aide memoires and
     reports;

 l Other documents provided by ZPEPC for the Stakeholder Workshop and for ICR preparation.




                                                - 53 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results


  Please refer to section 9) of Annex 9.




                                            - 54 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results


                       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT FOR
                    CHINA-ZHEJIANG POWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                      HIGHLIGHTS OF THE STAKEHOLDERS' MEETING
                              Hangzhou, Zhejiang, November 7-8, 2002

The meeting was attended by representatives of the Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Corporation
(ZPEPC) the implementing agency, the State Power Corporation, Zhejiang Provincial Economic & Trade
Commission, Zhejiang Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau, Zhejiang Provincial Pricing Bureau,
Zhejiang Provincial Finance Bureau, China International Tendering Company, Zhejiang Provincial Electric
Power Development Company, Sunshine Law Firm and the East China Investigation & Design Institute.

An overview of the results was presented by ZPEPC. Details and some lessons were discussed in six
break-out sessions that ran in parallel three at a time on sector and utility reform, project investments,
environmental and social components.       For each one, a World Bank representative moderated the
discussion after a Chinese lead speaker went over the detailed reviews of progress and some of the
questions. The six presentations, of about 15 minutes each, were consolidated into a paper translated into
English.

The highlights below cover in turn: (i) economic and financial impact; (ii) environmental management and
population resettlement; (iii) commercialization and corporatization of ZPEPC; (iv) regulation and
competition promotion; (v) Beilungang II investment; (vi) transmission and distribution investment; and (v)
Resettlement.

Economic and Financial Impact

Economic. In the Zhejiang Province, growth was very fast and surpassing the national av 11.0% in
1996-20000 (9th Plan) surpassing the national average by 2.7%. Since 2000, the momentum was kept [1].
The project and its commissioning in 1998-2000, 15 months a head of schedule, were crucial to
maintaining power supply reliability even though growth was fast and much stronger than forecast and
efficiency improved. In 2001, with an output of 10.2 TWh it accounted for 12% of the power generated in
the province. No data was collected on jobs creation associated with the project. But indications exist that
the economic value added per kWh has increased with the fast industrial growth in Zhejiang thus
strengthening the importance of a reliable power supply. Based on the estimation that 1 kWh is associated
with about 10 Yuan worth of GDP in Zhejiang, the generation by the 1,800 MW units in Beilungang II in
2002 contributed to some Y100 billion of economic output.

The standard coal consumption of 6MW and above units decreased from 360g/kWh in 1999 to 343 g/kWh
(net of losses 385 g and 365 g respectively) savings 1.55 million tons of coal in 2001.          ZPEPC's
transmission losses dropped from 5.67% in 1995 to 4.33% in 2001. For the Province they dropped from
9.64% to 8.09% saving 69GWh in 2001.




                                                  - 55 -

Financial impact. Beilungang II was built for Y9.3 Billion or 3 Billion under budget.               Financing
diversification occurred probably beyond the project but is only documented for ZPEPC: ZPEPC invested
51% of the cost and borrowed the balance from other sources. By end 2001, Beilungang II had sold 17.1
TWh for Y5.4 Billion providing 1.2 Billion in profits and 1.2 Billion in taxes, that is a return on equity of
26.63%. In 2002, ZPEPC consolidated finances had recovered: debt equity ratio of 1.5 and falling, debt
service coverage ratio of 2.42, ROR on revalued assets 10% and self financing at 25%.

Environmental Management and Population Resettlement

Implementation of Environmental Management Plan The project was implemented as per the EIA
approved by the ZEPB. The ZEPB did evaluate environmental monitoring equipment used at Beilungang
and the thermal plant is the first generation facility in eastern China to be registered ISO14000 (achieved in
2001). Air monitoring equipment has been very reliable, in large part due to the equipment calibration
requirement of ISO14000. Most environmental indicators for the thermal plant meet SEPA standards [2].
The Chinese environmental criteria are 20% stricter than the Bank's. The plant's air quality monitoring
program is rated as slightly better than that of other similarly sized plants in eastern China. ZPEPC was
responsive to cultural sensitivities as shown by the site chosen ultimately for the Yuyao substation [3].
Substations and transmission and distribution lines were constructed in strict accordance with SEPA and
ZPEPC's policies

The Bank did not provide any direction regarding the criteria that should be used to evaluate acceptance of
the project. It would have been helpful if the Bank had provided this guidance. Bank supervision improved
the borrower's work, but the Bank should have focused its supervision at the beginning of the project and
on project acceptance, not so much during the middle of project implementation

T.A. for environmental monitoring and impact assessment ZPEPC already had environmental capability
going into the project, but this was further strengthened over the period of project implementation. The
project promoted and developed the concept of environmental protection. It contributed to an improved
understanding of environmental monitoring and protection technologies. A study tour to Australia provided
an opportunity to strengthen the air quality monitoring capabilities of the Thermal Plant Environmental
Department. Training on the effects of and standards required to protect from electromagnetic flux (EMF)
was provided for those involved in high voltage transmission line construction.

Implementation of the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) Project companies used to be were rarely
concerned by resettlement and land acquisition programs, which was often handled by relevant local
government departments. The Bank involvement with regular supervision and requirements on resettlement
monitoring and evaluation by ECIDI significantly improved the capacity of project owners to be directly
involved in resettlement implementation and their awareness of the outcome. Each project company set up
special unit and staff to manage resettlement.

During implementation, limited training was given, whether overseas training on monitoring and evaluation
or domestic training on Bank resettlement policy and implementation.               These are very useful for
resettlement staff in project companies. In future, such training activities should be formally included in
the training program for entire project and encouraged by the Bank and the project owner.

The time lag between construction and the preparation of the RAP required by the Bank makes the RAP for
transmission components obsolete and cause problem at the time of implementation. The method and
measures to take for economic rehabilitation should also be flexible in the RAP for the same reasons. A
better approach would be to prepare a basic framework first, and have a detailed RAP prepared for those


                                                      - 56 -

components only after detailed design is completed. There were two RAPs: one prepared in 1993-1994 for
the main project and the other one in 1999 for the cost saving component. The quality of the latter was
higher reflecting a change in Bank requirements over time.

Monitoring and evaluation of the RAP The income changes of resettlers were assessed for all four
components, with a survey of 283 households covering 19 subprojects. The results suggest that the
affected people have improved their living conditions after relocation and increased their per capita income
after resettlement: on average, per capita income increased by 43 percent, ranging from 2.3 percent in
Chengnan 220kV Substation in Hangzhou to 96.6 percent in Changshan 110kV Substation in Ningbo.
Among four components, per capita income increased 81.8 percent for the Beilun Power Plant, 31.5
percent for Hangzhou Distribution, 57.2 percent for Ningbo Distribution and 31.5 percent for 500kV
Transmission.

Commercialization and corporatization of ZPEPC

Accounting and Financial Reform The FMIS was to improve ZPEPC's financial information platform
and provides speed and accuracy in data handling. Initial design ignored T&D. By June 2001, the SAP
FI/CO module for operated on line for 15 units including 4 plants. It is the most advanced such system in
China but it is not very user-friendly and above all, it does not take into account the unbundling that is to
take place. It is a good start but to realize its potential work must proceed in four directions: (i) adapting it
to the new industry structure; (ii) developing interfaces with other systems such as the competitive pool's;
(iii) installing other modules; and (iv) introducing the data storehouse needed for the executive decision
making module after the application has reached a sufficient level.

Distribution restructuring. ZPEPC has rehabilitated rural distribution networks and helped restructure
institutional arrangements. From 1999 to date, ZPEPC has invested RMB 14.55 billion Yuan (equivalent
to about US$1.8 billion) in rural distribution in particular, at the level of 10kV and LV (including metering
and new house wiring). Loss reduction was significant e.g. in Fuyang, from some 23% to 11%, and in
Xinchang, from 30% to 11%. The investments are financed 20% through state bonds and 80% through
borrowing from the Agricultural Bank on concessional terms. The restructuring consists of the following:

     (i) ZPEPC through Municipal Power Supply Bureaus takes over the management of County Power
           Supply Bureaus. This is deemed a transitional arrangement;

     (ii) Collectively owned distribution assets (typically portions of 10 kV and LV lines) are transferred to
           the 78 CPSBs on a voluntary basis. In return, CPSBs will invest, operate and maintain the rural
           LV distribution network; and

     (iii) CPSBs are responsible for providing electricity services to individual customers taking over the
           functions of village Electricity Management Members.

ZPEPC's management take-over of all CPSBs is now effective. The valuation of collectively owned
distribution assets has been completed and their transfer will be by end 2003. This will standardize
operation and maintenance and improve efficiency. It also raises issues that must be tackled without delay:
incorporation and consolidation of the CPSBs, increasing their capacity to fund connections and to manage
the surging number of customers [4], statute of CPSBs staff.




                                                       - 57 -

Corporatization By end 1999, generation plants had been reorganized into limited liability companies;
Chanxing had become a wholly owned subsidiary of Huaneng and Zhejiang Southeast Electric Power Co
created and listed on the stock market to raise capital. ZPEPC is a wholly owned subsidiary of the State
Electric Power Company on the principle of "who finances also owns"; it is free to choose its supplies, hire
and fire and set labor compensation terms, lease o transfer assets in accordance with State Council
stipulations, and is responsible for profit, losses and liabilities

Regulation and Competition Promotion

Unification of Retail Tariffs      Starting from June 2002, the right to levy charges was limited, many of
those and customer connection fees were eliminated: all customers across the province pay the same price
of Y0.53/kWh (USc6.5) for residential use.           In 18 out of 78 CPSBs, non-ordinary industrial users
(including rural commercial consumption) pay the same Y0.708/kWh (USc 8.6) as that by urban
consumers. Unification will be completed by end of 2003. The elimination of double track tariff improved
the fairness and efficiency of pricing; it also reduced the average tariff in the province is from Y0.688 in
1999 to Y0.597/ kWh (USc7.1) in 2001, thus contributing to the acceleration in electricity demand growth.



Cross subsidies. They have been reduced at retail level by the unification but they remain high for
agriculture and small residential users. They also vary by county because, to keep retail tariffs uniform,
bulk supply prices are tweaked taking into account the customer base and the embedded generation (e.g.
small hydropower, co-generation etc.); for example, the selling price for small hydro, currently Y0.34/kWh
(USc4.1) is usually higher than the bulk sale price from the grid and poorer (mountainous) counties tend to
have more of it. ZPEPC cross-subsidizes these CPSBs with a lower bulk supply price: the differential
between the highest and the lowest price is about Y0.2/ kWh and ten CPSBs would have been in deficit if
this differential did not exist.

Another cross subsidy arises in the allocation of tariff revenue to generation. While the average retail tariff
(about USc7/kWh) is deemed cost reflective, the Y0.175/ kWh (USc2.1) apportioned for transmission and
distribution is too small, making ZPEPC financially unsustainable when its highly profitable generation
assets are unbundled. A study by an international consultant will propose a new tariff by mid 2003.

T.A. for CHP sales agreements. The sales agreement fell through when city planning doomed the
Wangjiamen project; but the TA gave ZPEPC a better understanding of international practice in the
preparation of IPP deals and documentation. The model text prepared for power sales was used in the
drafting of agreements by all generation units although they had to be ultimately amended to make them
comply with local laws.

Power Purchase Agreements. PPAs with the plants are being replaced by Contracts for Differences. The
formulas for wholesale prices have not been modernized to include a capacity charge as the pricing rules in
the competitive market are still in flux. The all-in-one price is revised case bay case for old plants but new
ones use a new and less front loaded benchmark after their local financing is rescheduled; that renegotiation
excludes plants listed on the stock market or with foreign funding.

Regulatory organization. With the big exception of the publication of the (generation) Market Rules and
attendant codes, no progress was registered in reforming the mandate, staffing and rules of the regulatory
body. The State Exchange and Trade Commission is leading studies that refer to one by NERA laying out



                                                      - 58 -

the principles of the Electricity Regulation Law in particular a bias towards a centralization of powers
which is the main issue. That orientation was confirmed by the April 2002 Reform Plan that establishes
the State Electricity Power Regulatory Body and its affiliates as the successors of the Provincial Price
Bureaus. That push came late and has not translated yet into tangible changes but it was facilitated by the
Project's successful experience of competitive pool.

Promotion of competition thru power pool. From January 1, 2000, a competitive pool has been tried, the
first one in China: at first with 8 GenCos representing 58.6% of the grid generation, then in 2002, 9
accounting for 75% of it. The share of their spot sales also increased from 13.75% to 20%. About 600
staff was trained in market operations. Labor was not better or worse off and none had incentives to play
the game. Yet plant availability rose, non-labor costs decreased and so did prices (by some Y50/MWh)
bringing savings of Y420 million in 2000-02. An independent evaluation considers the limited experiment
a success and it indicates the next steps to take; however what will happen now and how fast is still
unclear: participants would like to move to multiple buyers, increase the size of the market by going
regional and have the strike price in the contracts for difference negotiated by the parties. Also, because
electricity supply is tight in Zhejiang, many want to continue capping the market prices at a "reasonable"
level.

Beilungang II Investment

Procurement ICB was used for components directly financed by the Bank but limited invitation bidding
for those funded by commercial borrowing with ECO guarantees (one boiler and one flying ash handling
island). Based on lessons from Beilungang I, the number of islands was reduced to 5 by thus reducing the
pressure on the owner for interface management and communications with suppliers at all stages. The
procurement in fewer and bigger more complex packages eliminated some suppliers as main bidders but not
drastically because the industry is increasingly made up of giant integrated consortia, and many could still
vie to be subcontractors subject to approval by the owner.           In practice, the owner's evaluation of
subcontractors was weak for lack of time and information in the bids and some pre-qualification
mechanism may have been needed here. It also seems that Bank's approval took too long for coal handling
equipment.

Construction Construction management reached a new standard of professionalism especially on
scheduling (using a P3 software), quality control and cost control that saved 28% of the original budget.
Commissioning time was also compressed by merging the primary adjustment and the fine-tuning in one
stage.   The equipment have performed superbly with four major exceptions: (i) over-stressed boiler
structures; (ii) low steam temperature of main steam and re-heater steam; (iii) a carry over of saturated
steam at low drum water level; and (iv) a premature wearing off of boiler burner liner. Most of this was
remedied but the maximum output, auxiliary consumption and even more so the heat rate are still falling
short of the guarantee values by 4 to 10%: an estimate of the liquidated damages for the $80 million turbine
contract runs to some $60 million.

Lessons learned. The owner cannot help thinking that technical performance is shortchanged in the
Bank-imposed bidding procedure: too often, the lowest responsive bidder is barely meets technical
requirements to be in the running with the confidence that in case of shortcomings, it can easily finesse the
scope of its performance guarantee and minimize the amount of liquidated damages. Departure from a
proven technology is risky: in spite of excellent references, the boilers manufacturer provoked costly delays
and large-scale modifications by trying for the first time design options that proved erroneous for the steel
structure, heating surface and drum. The dispute on boiler and turbine performance--and the contrast with
T&D procurement--stresses the need to understand the legal obligations couched in the suppliers' contracts


                                                     - 59 -

in order to improve the terms and timeliness of the resolution. Involving legal counsels in negotiating
liquidated damages helped but it would have been best to have their help in the preparation of bidding
documents and contract negotiations.

A last question arises: was this unit size and technology the right choice at the right time? In spite of
procurement and construction difficulties, the answer is yes. It was big step forward especially in the
1980s but the growth and plant siting conditions in Zhejiang required units of large size and high
efficiency; the excellent operating experience indicates that the technology is sound and that ZPEPC has
mastered it and in doing so cashed in both economies of scale and series by building 5 units of that type.
Learning was substantial all along although less intense lately than for Beilungang I. The owner noted that
Chinese engineers still too often turned a deaf ear to foreign advice an attitude that must be corrected as it
creates motivational, relational and technical problems.

Transmission and Distribution Investment

Procurement. ICB greatly reduced the work time and workload, and brought forward commissioning
while helping guarantee reliable facilities.

Construction. The management style of the planned economy was replaced by the international system of
"supervision that takes owner as master" and the local "four controls, two supervision, one report" was
strengthened, international management methods introduced and a "P3"software introduced for the
Wenzhou and Ningbo substations. In JinHua substation, construction emulated that of Jiangsu Wu'nan
substation. Costs were kept within budgets construction time cut and safety and quality control stepped up.
An attorney participated from bidding documents preparation to negotiation of contracts.

Lessons learned. Other key factors of performance were:

    1) Acceptance procedures; the procurement of imported goods was on the critical path but acceptance
         procedures were unclear needing a specialist to do the transaction, explain questions raised during
         tests and translate or edit documents.
    2) Disseminating approved feasibility reports and preliminary designs to people involved in domestic
         acceptance procedures and the drafting of goods schedules in bidding documents.
    3) Quality and timeliness of drawings ensured that from the bidding and design stages, discussion
         between contracting parties are not causing delays and work stoppages.
    4) Depth of preparation work (corridors, substation lay out, data on weather, geology, water and
         electricity supply etc.)

TA for T&D Planning. ZPEPC's planning staff received training in two software packages that were
installed. They got a good command of the technology and it is still in full use for transmission. PSS/U,
the distribution package was used for Hangzhou and Ningbo and it was to be installed in 7 other bureaus;
however, this expansion and even the sustained use of the package is doubtful mostly because the
documentation is all in English and data requirements are large.

Resettlement

Key points of discussion on the resettlement are summarized as follows:

    1) The Bank involvement in the resettlement with regular supervision and requirements on
         resettlement monitoring and evaluation has significantly improved capacity and awareness among


                                                    - 60 -

      project owners, from both ZPEPC to all four companies in charge of four project components.

   2) Without the Bank involvement, the project companies rarely concerned the actual implementation
      of resettlement and land acquisition programs, which was often handled by relevant local
      government departments.      With the Bank involvement, the project owners are more directly
      involved in resettlement implementation, and more aware the outcomes of resettlement.

   3) Due to the time difference between the actual project preparation and Bank procedure, the
      requirements of RAP was often too early for those transmission components. To accommodate
      such requirements, the prepared RAP could not reflect actual conditions and will cause problem in
      implementation. A better approach is to prepare the policy framework first, and detailed RAP will
      be prepared for those components once detailed design is completed.

   4) The way of economic rehabilitation should also be flexible in the RAP, since along with the time,
      the economic rehabilitation measures to be adopted by affected villages will vary accordingly.

   5) During the course of resettlement implementation, limited training had been implemented, including
      both overseas training on resettlement monitoring and evaluation and domestic training on Bank
      resettlement policy and implementation.      These training activities are very useful for the
      resettlement staff among project companies. In future, such training activities should be formally
      included in the training program for entire project and encouraged by the Bank and the project
      owner.

   6) The implementation of Zhejiang Power Development Project has strengthened institutional capacity
      on resettlement among project companies, including both ZPEPC and four component projects.
      During the course of project implementation, each project component has set up special unit and
      staff to manage resettlement implementation under the WB project.

   7) The implementation of resettlement monitoring and evaluation program by ECIDI" allowed the
      project owners to ensure that affected people had received full compensation and their livelihood
      and income had restored or improved after resettlement.

   8) There are two RAPs prepared during the course of project; one was prepared in 1993-1994 for the
      main project and the other was prepared in 1999 for cost saving component. Along with time, the
      content and quality of RAPs had improved significantly, reflecting change of Bank requirements
      over the time.

Income Changes of Resettlers

   9) For all four project components, based on sample survey among 283 households, the affected
      people have improved their living conditions after relocation and increased their per capita income
      after resettlement. According to the survey among 283 sample households from 19 subprojects, in
      average, per capita income has increased by 43 percent after resettlement, ranging from 2.3 percent
      in Chengnan 220kV Substation in Hangzhou) to 96.6 percent in Changshan 110kV Substation in
      Ningbo. Among four components, in average, per capita income of resettlers increased by 81.8
      percent for Beilun Power Plant Component, 31.5 percent for Hangzhou Distribution Component,
      57.2 percent for Ningbo Distribution Component, and 31.5 percent for 500kV Transmission
      Component.




                                                - 61 -

Notes
[1] Growth was 10.5% in 2001; in 2002, estimates are 12.3% and a per capita GDP of about Y16,600. Fast growth drove a
    fast growing power demand. In 1996-2000, the provincial maximum load grew at 10.5% p.a., energy consumption at
    10.6%. Lately, growth acceleration was spectacular: peak increased 19% in 2000, 12.1% in 2001 and 19.2% in 2002 to
    reach 15,500 MW; for energy consumption, growth rates were 19.2%, 13.7% and 19.2 % to reach 98.48 billion kWh. In
    2003-06 a growth of 10% p.a. is forecasted.
[2] As of June 2001, the NOx levels did not quite meet the standards. These can be lowered, but at a potential cost of
    increased slag production. The plant has asked the manufacturer to provide a solution to this problem. The plant has also
    asked the Zhejiang Design Institute to undertake a benefit-cost evaluation to determine the merit of installing and
    operating flue gas desulfurization equipment. At present, the plant pays a tax of 0.2 RMB Yuan/kg of SO2 emitted.
[3] The Yuyao 500 kV substation was built at ZPEPC's second choice site, instead of that originally selected after the local
    government objected that it would mean relocating a graveyard. Both sites were evaluated in the EIA. The original choice
    was 9 ha of land consisting of paddy field, a large graveyard, and a small tool factory; it is bordered residences. The
    second site is 2 km away: 8 ha of former rice paddy and a newly developed tree nursery with the closest residences 0.5 to
    1.0 km away. The original site was selected because at the time China's agricultural policy gave precedence to protecting
    farmland over other criteria.
[4] CPSBs previously regarded 10 kV distribution transformers as its end-users. But now CPSBs are required to serve
    individual customers. Overnight, the number of customers has surged. For instance, in Xinchang, it went from the 38,084
    to 159,812. Likewise, in Jiaxin the CPSB will have 65,000 more customers. Managerial capacity building at the CPSB
    level is an urgent need and ZPEPC who is consolidating its customer information system covering all retail customers can
    certainly help.




                                                          - 62 -

Additional Annex 10. Implementation of Environment Management Plan


Project Environmental Oversight

1.      Environmental oversight for power projects in Zhejiang Province is provided at a number of levels,
as shown in Figure 1. At the most senior level, the State Power Corporation's Department of Science,
Technology and Environmental Protection has responsibility for environmental policies, standards and
procedures within the power sector. The Safety & Environmental Protection Supervision Department of
SPC's East China Branch is responsible for ensuring these state level environmental guidelines are
implemented within China's eastern provinces, including Zhejiang Province.                             Zhejiang Province Electric
Power Company's Safety and Environmental Protection Supervision Department is responsible for
ensuring the state level power sector environmental guidelines are incorporated and implemented into their
generation, transmission and distribution projects. ZPEPC's SEPSD provides an environmental oversight
role to its Power Generation Division, for specific projects during construction and operation, and to its
Power Supply Bureau and Research, Testing and Design institutes. The SEPSD also maintains close
liaison with the ZEPB and its various municipal EPB entities that provide both environmental monitoring
and environmental supervision functions.

    Figure 1  Environmental Regulatory Structure for Power Sector Projects - Zhejiang Province

                                                       State Power Corporation
                                                                 (SPC)
                                                        - Department of Science
                                                      Technology & Environmental
                                                                Protection




                                                        SPC East China Branch
                                                       - Safety & Environmental
                                                         Protection Supervision
                                                               Department

                        Zhejiang Province Electric
                        Power Company (ZPEPC)


                                                                 ZPEPC                Provincial Environmental
                                                       - Environmental Safety &     Protection Supervision Bureau
                                                         Protection Supervision
                                                               Department




                                                                                          Municipal Level
                                                                                      Environmental Protection
                                                                                        Supervision Bureaus




                      Power Generation Division             Project Specific          Power Supply Bureau &
                      - Environmental Protection      Environmental Management      Research, Testing & Design
                          Leadership Group                       Offices                      Institutes
                                                        - i.e., Tongbai Pumped
                                                             Storage Project




Beilungang Phase II

2.      At the time of the mission (04 June to 09 June 2001) visit, all construction has been completed for
the Phase II project, with the exception of the coal drying shed. Unit #4 was shut down to correct a boiler
tube problem, but units #3 and #5 were in operation.



                                                                - 63 -

3.       The ash disposal pipeline is now operational and delivers fly ash slurry to the new ash disposal site
located 14 km from the Beilungang station. The original fly ash disposal site is now the site of the
Chinese-Korean joint venture factory LG Electronics. Bottom ash (slag) is still disposed of on the plant
site. The ash disposal facility consists of a 7 m high dyke that separates the 1.2 km by 3.4 km disposal
area from the adjacent tidal estuary. The dyke is lined with a permeable membrane on the ash disposal
side, which facilitates the draining of slurry water from the ash disposal area into the surrounding seawater.
At 100% disposal of fly ash, the disposal facility has 20 years of capacity. At present, 38% of the fly ash
is sold commercially. This will result in the ash disposal site being available for fly ash disposal for more
than the projected 20 years.

4.       Phase II of Beilungang officially satisfied all state level operational criteria on 15 March 2001,
when SEPA finalized it's report. The acceptance followed a rigorous three level process that involved:

         a. Plant testing of environmental emissions and discharges;
         b. Review of Beilungang plant testing data by ZPEPC Safety and Environmental Protection
            Supervision Department; and
         c. SEPA independent monitoring of Beilungang plant.

5.       The acceptance process involved checks of the following plant systems:

        l Wastewater  discharge lagoons and pumps; boiler wash and acid wash ponds; neutralizing
            tank; settlement/sedimentation ponds
        l Waste gas  chimney flue gas; gas ducts; buildings; electrostatic precipitators
        l Noise  insulation systems; mufflers/silencers
        l Solid waste  ash disposal; fine and coarse fly ash silos; slurry pumps
        l Other  monitoring equipment; landscaping.


6.       Continuous stack fume emission monitoring is carried out by the plant using automated sampling
and analyses equipment. Continuous off-site monitoring is also carried out at two sites situated downwind
of the plant in the two prevailing wind directions.       Results of the monitoring are reported to ZPEPB
monthly. Since becoming operational, each of the three Phase II units has continued to meet Grade II
emissions criteria for SOx and NOx, however NOx levels do not quite meet the design standards. This is
primarily due to problems with boiler slagging. The plant's electrostatic precipitators are operating at
99.7% efficiency, which exceeds the design standards of 99.68% for removal of suspended particulate
matter.

7.       Trace element sampling of seawater outside the ash disposal area is carried out annually. Trace
elements include Cr6+, Cs, Hg, Cd, F. Oil and phenols are also tested for. All have been within the state
standards.

8.       With respect to the NOx levels, these can be lowered, but at a potential cost of increased slag
production. The plant has asked the manufacturer to provide a solution to this problem. The plant has also
asked the Zhejiang Design Institute to undertake a benefit-cost evaluation to determine the merit of
installing and operating flue gas desulfurization equipment. At present, the plant pays a tax of 0.2 RMB
Yuan/kg of SO2 emitted.


Hangzhou and Ningbo Distribution Component



                                                     - 64 -

9.      Three 110 kV substations (Fushin, Yungjing and Jungshin), constructed under the World Bank
loan, were visited within Hangzhou. In addition, three 500 kV substations, two that were expanded under
the loan (Pingyao and Lanting), and one new substation under construction (Ningbo), were visited.




                                                 - 65 -

110 kV Substations

10.     The following table summarizes some of the features of the 110 kV substations inspected during
the mission.

Parameters                                                   110 kV Substation
                                     Fushin                       Yungjing                       Jungshin
Date of                               2000                          2000                           1998
Commissioning
Basic Building Design 2 story concrete                  2 story concrete               3 story concrete


Exterior Building        Pink tile faade and window style that allows building to blend in with local residential
Faade                   neighbourhood.
Exterior Grounds         Landscaped with turf, ornamental trees and flowers.
110 kV Transmission Overhead from nearby                4 km underground               2 km underground from
Line Connections         forested hills                                                Jiachi substation

Transformers             2 x 110 kV ABB; 50 MVA         2 x 110 kV Siemens; 50         2 x 110 kV Siemens; 50
                         each; 25 tonne oil capacity    MVA each; 25 tonne oil         MVA each; 25 tonne oil
                         each                           capacity each                  capacity each
Transformer Oil          Gravel/cobble filled concrete tank with sump pump for recovery to pumper truck
Containment System
Transformer Noise        Low speed fans ensure quiet operation, which is further minimized by transformers
Isolation System         housed individually within transformer room; Siemens transformers are marginally more
                         noisy than ABB transformers; standard for operation is 45 dB(A) at property line at
                         night; inside transformer room noise level is 50 dB(A), while outside 1 m from building it
                         is <45 dB(A)

GIS                                                           Japanese (Mitsui)
10 kV System             Chinese                        ABB                            ABB
Fire Control System      Multiple banks for dry chemical fire extinguishers located at strategic points throughout
                         each substation.
Station Control          Controlled remotely from       Controlled remotely from       Main control for 9 other
                         Jungshin                       Jungshin                       substations, including Fushin
                                                                                       and Yungjing

11.     As indicated in the table, the substations blend in with the residential neighbourhoods in which they
are situated; the noise levels are well within the required standards for residential neighbourhoods; and the
environmental controls (oil spill containment, fire suppression) meet current standards. In addition, the
substations are kept in a clean and orderly condition. To prevent mice or rats from entering the control
rooms, where damage to wiring could threaten the integrity of the substations, 50 cm high aluminum or
wooden batter boards are installed in the door jams at each of the substations visited.




                                                     - 66 -

500 kV Substations

12.       The following table summarizes some of the key features of the 500 kV substations inspected
during the mission.

Parameters                                                                       500 kV Substation
                                Pingyao (2000 MVA)                    Lanting (2250 MVA)                  Ningbo (2250 MVA)
Staff Employed (Operations)                       25                                    25                        35 (once operational)
Land Area                       - 12 ha (original site area)          - 10 ha (original area)             - 8.13 ha
                                - 0.6 ha added in 1998 for 220 kV     - 2 ha (added for 2nd and 3rd unit  - as of date of mission, 90% of civil
                                system                                expansion)                          works had been completed
Site Environment                - Located in rural area on NNE flank - Located in rural area, nestled in  - Located on broad flat agricultural
                                of Kaolao Mountain; site surrounded small valley surrounded by hills on   area
                                by rolling hills covered with bamboo which there are tea plantations
                                plantations and secondary broadleaf
                                forest


                                - nearest residences are scattered    - nearest residences are scattered  - site was formerly rice paddy land
                                farm houses 1 km away                 farm houses 1 km away

                                - site is landscaped with sod and     - site is landscaped with sod and   - nearest residences are 1 km away
                                small ornamental trees; step and      small ornamental trees; step and
                                touch risk of electrocution           touch risk of electrocution
                                minimized by placement of gravel      minimized by placement of gravel
                                isolation pads wherever workers       isolation pads wherever workers
                                need to service equipment             need to service equipment



                                                                                                          - soil has been removed for
                                                                                                          construction and stockpiled for later
                                                                                                          use in landscaping the site
Transmission Lines Connections  - 9 x 500 kV circuits                 - 7 x 500 kV circuits               - 10 x 500 kV circuits (current phase
                                                                                                          is for 2 x 500 kV circuits  1 in and
                                                                                                          1 out)
                                (2 circuits connected 8 & 15 May      - 1 x 220 kV circuit                - 16 x 220 kV circuits (current phase
                                2001 as part of Bank financed                                             is for 7 x 220 kV circuits  4 in and
                                project)                                                                  3 out)
                                - 12 x 220 kV circuits                                                    - construction of transmission lines
                                                                                                          will commence mid-June 2001


                                - 1 x 35 kV circuit internal to plant
                                as backup operation supply


                                - 1 x 15 kV circuit internal to plant
Transformers                    Single Phase                          Single Phase                        Single Phase
                                - Hitachi 500 MVA (1987)              - Fuji 750 MVA (1991)               - Toshiba 750 MVA
                                - Baoding 750 MVA (1992)              - Mitsubishi 750 MVA (1997 
                                                                      World Bank)
                                - Toshiba 750 MVA (1999  World - Toshiba 750 MVA (2000  World
                                Bank)                                 Bank)
                                                                                                                   continued ...




                                                                - 67 -

... continue

Transformer Oil Containment   containment tanks beneath each transformer must be pumped out twice a         tanks beneath each transformer
                              month during rainy season to remove water, which is disposed of into          connected to water treatment plant
                              drains; if oil in water, then oily/water mixture is pumped to tanker trucks
                              for off-site treatment & disposal

Water Treatment Systems       - septic tank system for sewage from offices and staff residence              - septic tank system for sewage from
                                                                                                            offices and staff residence
                              - no water treatment system for site drainage water                           - drains from cable trenches and
                                                                                                            transformer oil containment tank
                                                                                                            connected to on-site
                                                                                                            sedimentation/biochemical water
                                                                                                            treatment system

Reactors                      4 oil filled ASEA (ABB) reactors         24 air type (Trench) reactors        (specs unknown at this time)
                              located in SSE corner of site


Circuit Breaker System        SF6                                      SF6                                  SF6 (Siemens)
Fire Control System           - manual systems for transformer         - automatic systems for all three    (specs unknown at this time)
                              sets #1 and #1                           transformer sets (currently set on
                                                                       manual mode)
                              - automatic system for transformer
                              set #3 (currently set on manual
                              mode)

                              - fire extinguishers located in well
                              marked fire fighting stations
                              throughout buildings and around
                              substation site

Noise Levels                  - all transformers equipped with low - all transformers equipped with low N/A
                              speed fans; Set #3 is quietist,          speed fans; all are within acceptable
                              followed by Set #2, then set #1; all     standards for noise at property line
                              are within acceptable standards for
                              noise at property line


                              - reactor noise is audible, but not      - reactors do not generate any noise
                              offensive
                              - static `crackle' from overhead         - static `crackle' from overhead
                              conductors is noticeable but not         conductors is noticeable but not
                              offensive                                offensive




                                                               - 68 -

500 kV Transmission Component

13.      The 500 kV transmission lines constructed as part of the project are clustered in multi-line
corridors, wherever possible. There has been minimal disturbance to the ground under and adjacent to the
lattice towers. In most cases, this area has been recovered by farmers and is being used as vegetable plots.
Where transmission lines run over hills and mountains, towers have been strategically placed on high points
to take advantage of the ground clearance distance between spans. Tower height further ensures that
clearance distance above trees is provided, thereby minimizing the need to clear vegetation from
rights-of-way in most cases.

Conclusions and Recommendations

14.      Environmental Oversight of Power Sector Projects in Zhejiang Province  the institutional
structure provided by ZPEPC for environmental oversight of all its functions, meets the requirements of the
World Bank.

15.      Beilungang Thermal Power Plant Phase II            The Beilungang plant site is clean and well
maintained. The water treatment systems are in place and operating within government standards for
effluent discharges. Continuous air quality monitoring of flue gas emissions proceeds at the plant by the
Beilungang facility, and at two off-site monitoring stations located in the two prevailing downwind
directions 5.0 and 2.5 km from the plant, by the Zhejiang Province Environmental Protection Bureau
(ZPEPB). Monitoring data indicates that emissions are within the Grade II state and provincial standards.
Environmental acceptance procedures for the plant were rigorous, ensuring that the plant was functioning
to state environmental standards before going being allowed to go into formal electricity production.

16.      The owners of Beilungang Phase II currently pay SO2 emission levies to the ZPEPB.
Consideration is being given to installing flue gas desulfurization equipment to remove virtually all SO2.
Before any decision is made to proceed in this direction, an economic benefit-cost analysis should be
carried out of the investment and operating and maintenance costs of FGD equipment.

17.      110 kV Substations and Interconnections  the substation building architecture blends in with
urban residential surroundings at each location investigated (Fushin, Yungjing, Jungshin). The exterior
grounds of each substation are landscaped to further enhance the visual aesthetics. Lines connecting the
plants are either underground cables or, where space permits, are above ground lattice tower transmission
lines constructed with minimal disturbance to vegetated areas. The net effect is one of low visual intrusion
into the urban landscape. Transformers use low speed fans and are isolated from the local residential
neigbourhoods such that at the property line of each substation inspected the noise emitted is well within
the nighttime noise standards.      Transformer oil containment is incorporated into the design of the
substations, thereby minimizing the risk of accidental releases of insulating oil to drainage systems in the
event of transformer oil leakage or catastrophic failure. Banks of fire extinguishers, all of which are
current in their inspections, are located throughout each substation in clearly indicated fire station
locations.

18.      500 kV Substations  the substations investigated, Pingyao, Lanting (in operation) and Ningbo
(under construction) are well situated in rural areas away from residential developments. The Pingyao and
Lanting substations are actually hard to find, being tucked away in small out-of-the-way valleys and being
surrounded by bamboo forest and orchards. The Ningbo substation is located in the middle of a wide flat
agricultural area. For the two 500 kV substations in operation, the Transformer and reactor noise is well
within the state standards. A combination of modern design (including use of low speed fans), 2.5 m high


                                                     - 69 -

solid walls to enclose the substation site, and location within the substation grounds accounts for this. The
net effect is that there are no offsite noise impacts. Fire suppression systems are in place and monitored
continuously. Sewage systems are in place and functioning as designed for the office and residential
buildings. The transformers are situated over containment tanks that are capable of intercepting and
holding the entire volume of insulating oil in any given transformer. Although the containment tanks are
not connected to a water treatment system, regular frequent monitoring of transformer insulating oil levels
ensures that if any loss of oil was to occur, it would be recovered by pumper truck for appropriate transfer
to an oil recovery depot. The Ningbo substation is an improvement over these earlier substations, insofar
that it has incorporated a water treatment plant to recover and treat all oily water from cable trenches and
oil containment systems.

19.      For future projects involving expansion of 500 kV substation capacity, ZPEPC should consider
upgrading the drainage system by installing collection drains that connect to sediment and oily water
treatment systems, such as that incorporated into the design of the Ningbo 500 kV Substation.

20.      500 kV transmission lines  the 500 kV transmission line component meets best environmental
practice for siting and site recovery.




                                                     - 70 -

- 71 -

