Page  1
May 4, 2000
Mr. Chen Jimin, 
General Manager 
Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Company 
2 Jinzhu Road (South) 
Hangzhou, Zhejiang 
People's Republic of China
Dear Sir:
RE:
Zhejiang Power Development Project (Ln. 3846\1eCHA) Amendment to 
Project Agreement
1. 
I refer to the Loan Agreement between the People's Republic of China (the 
Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), 
dated May 25, 1995 (the Loan Agreement) and to the Project Agreement of even date with 
the Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Company 
(ZPEPC) (the Project Agreement). I also refer to the letter dated January 26, 2000 
from Mr. Wu Gang, Deputy Director General, International Department, Ministry of 
Finance, on behalf of the Borrower, requesting an amendment to the Loan Agreement and 
the Project Agreement in order to permit the use of savings achieved under the project 
to finance additional activities within the original objectives of the project.
2. 
I am pleased to inform you that after due consideration the Bank concurs with 
the Borrower's proposal and hereby agrees to amend the Project Agreement as 
hereinafter provided.
3. 
Section 1.01(a) of the Project Agreement is amended by (a) deleting the word 
"and" at the end of sub\1eparagraph (vi) thereof; (b) changing the period at the end of 
subparagraph (vii) thereof to a semi\1ecolon followed by the word "and"; and (c) adding 
a new sub\1eparagraph (viii) thereto, as follows:
"(viii) ZPEPC will carry out the environmental impact mitigation plan 
according to 
the Environmental Assessment Plan dated June 1998.
4. 
Section 1.01(b) of the Project Agreement is amended by (a) deleting the word 
"and" at the end of sub\1eparagraph (iv) thereof; (b) changing the period at the end of 
subparagraph (v) thereof to a semi-colon followed by the word "and"; and (c) adding a 
new sub\1eparagraph (vi) thereto, as follows:
"(vi) ZPEPC will carry out the resettlement according to the Resettlement 
Action Plan 
dated September 1998.
5. 
Please confirm the agreement of ZPEPC to the amendment set forth in paragraphs 3 
and 4 above by countersigning and dating the corresponding form of confirmation set 
forth below, and returning one fully signed original of this amendment letter to us. 
One fully signed original should be retained by ZPEPC.
6. 
Except as specifically amended hereby, all other provisions of the Project 
Agreement remain in full force and effect. Upon receipt by the Bank of the copy of 
this letter of amendment duly countersigned by the authorized representative of ZPEPC 
and of the letter of amendment of even date herewith from the Bank to the Borrower 
concerning amendments to the Loan Agreement (the Loan Agreement amendment), duly 
countersigned by the Borrower, the above amendment shall become effective as of the 
date of countersignature of this letter of amendment or the date of countersignature 
of the Loan Agreement amendment, whichever is later.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Yukon Huang 
Country Director, 
China 
Page  2
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED:
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY
By /s/ Wu Gang 
Authorized Representative
Date: May 16, 2000
