LOAN NUMBER 384G CHA
Project Agreement
(Zhejiang Power Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ZEEJIANG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY
Dated    ,Y1995


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3846 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMET
AGREEMENT, dated                               3. YLOG-  C)  , 1995, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY (ZPEPC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to four hundred million dollars
($400,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that ZPEPC agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and ZPEPC, the proceeds of the loan provided for under
the Loan Agreement will be relent to ZPEPC on the terms and
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS ZPEPC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meaings:
(a)   'Environmental Mitigation Measures and Monitoring Plan'
means the environmental mitigation measures and monitoring plan,
specified in the following documents, as said measures and plan may
be amended from time to time in agreement with the Bank:
(i)   Environmental Assessment Report for the Second Phase of
Beilungang Thermal Power Plant Volumes 1 and 2, Zhejiang
Provincial Environment Protection Scientific Research
Institute March 1993;


﻿-2-
(ii) Supplemental Environmental Impact Assessment Report on
Extension of No. 5 Set for Phase II Project Beilungang
Power Plant East China Electric Power Design Institute
of Ministry of Electric Power Industry October 1994;
(iii) Zhejiang Electric Power Development Project Associated
500 kV & Substation Projects - Report on Environmental
Impact.   Zhejiang Electric Power Design Institute,
January 1994;
(iv) Supplementary Report on Environmental Assessment for the
Associated Transmission Line of Beilungang Power Plant
No. 5 Unit. Zhejiang Electric Power Design Institute,
December 1994;
(v)  Hangzhou City Electric Power Distribution     Network
Renovation Project Report on Environmental Effects.
Zhejiang Power Design Institute, January 1994;
(vi) Ningbo City Electric Power Distribution Network Report
on Environmental Effects.    Zhejiang Electric Power
Design Institute, January 1994; and
(vii) Zhejiang  Provincial   Electric   Power   Corporation
Environmental Monitoring Plan.    Zhejiang Provincial
Electric Power Company, January 1995.
(b)   "Resettlement Action Plans" means the resettlement
action plans, specified in the following documents, as said plans
may be amended from time to time in agreement with the Bank:
(i)  Action Plan and Implementation Procedures for Land
Acquisition & Resettlement-General Report.   Zhejiang
Provincial Power Company, February 1994;
(ii) Phase II Works of Beilungang Power Plant Operational
Action Plan and Implementation Procedures for land
Acquisition and Resettlement. Zhejiang Provincial Power
Plant Engineering Company, February 1994;
(iii) Action Plan and Implementation Procedures for Land
Acquisition and Resettlement Supplementary Information.
Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Company, April 1994;


﻿-3-
(iv) 500kv Transmission Line and Substations for Stage II
Works (Unit No.5) In Beilungang Power Plant, Land
Expropriation   &   Moving   Action    Schedule   and
Implementation (Supplement to Sub-Report No. 3).
Zhejiang Provincial Power Company, January 1995; and
(v)   The Outline of Independent Evaluation of Resettlement
Component.    East China   Investigation  and  Design
Institute, April 1994.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ZPEPC declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Bank and ZPEPC shall otherwise agree,
ZPEPC shall carry out      the Project in accordance with     the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) ZPEPC shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, ZPEPC shall:
(i)   prepare, on the basis of guidel.nes acceptable
to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later
than six (6) months after the Closing Date or


﻿-4-
purpose between the Bank and ZPEPC, a plan for
the future operation of the Project;
(ii)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with ZPEPC on said plan; and
(iii) thereafter, carry    out  said  plan  with   due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
appropriate practices, taking into account the
Bank's comments thereon.
Section 2.04. ZPEPC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, ZPEPC shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) ZPEPC shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Loan.
(b) ZPEPC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the
performance by ZPEPC of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ZPEPC
Section 3.01. ZPEPC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
engineering practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.02. ZPEPC shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
environmental practices.


﻿Section 3.03. ZPEPC shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ZPEPC shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b) ZPEPC shall:
(i)   have   its  records,  accounts   and  financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
ZPEPC shall produce, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal
year ending on December 31, 1994, funds from internal sources
equivalent to not less than 30% of the annual average of ZPEPC's
capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that
year, the previous year and the next following fiscal year.
(b)  Before April 30 in each of its fiscal years commencing
in 1995, ZPEPC shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by ZPEPC


﻿-6-
and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and
the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank a copy
of such review upon its completion.
(c)   If any such review shows that ZPEPC would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for ZPEPC's fiscal years
covered by such review, ZPEPC shall promptly take all necessary
measures  (including, without   limitation, adjustments   of  the
structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such
requirements.
(d)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    The term "funds from internal sources" means the
difference between:
(A)  the sum of revenues from all sources
related to operations, consumer deposits and
consumer contributions in aid of construction,
net non-operating income and any reduction in
working capital other than cash; and
(B)   the  sum  of  all  expenses  related  to
operations, including administration, adequate
maintenance and taxes and payments in lieu of
taxes (excluding provision for depreciation and
other non-cash operating charges), debt service
requirements, all cash dividends and other cash
distributions of surplus, increase in working
capital other than cash and other cash outflows
other than capital expenditures.
(ii)   The term "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:
(A)  revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and
(B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of
revenues in (A) above.


﻿-7-
(iii) The term "working capital other than cash" means
the difference between current assets excluding cash and
current liabilities at the end of each fiscal year.
(iv) The term "current assets excluding cash" means
all assets other than cash which could in the ordinary
course of business be converted into cash within twelve
months, including accounts receivable, marketable
securities, inventories and pre-paid expenses properly
chargeable to operating expenses within the next fiscal
year.
(v)    The  term  "current  liabilities"  means   all
liabilities which will become due and payable or could
under circumstances then existing be called for payment
within twelve months,. including accounts payable,
customer advances, debt service requirements, taxes and
payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(vi)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking fund
payments, if any) of, and interest and other charges on,
debt.
(vii) The term "capital expenditures" means all
expenditures on account of fixed assets, including
interest charged to construction, related to operations.
(viii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
shall be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such
valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is,
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of
such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable
to the Bank.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
ZPEPC shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the
revenues and expenditures of ZPEPC shows that the estimated net
revenues of ZPEPC for each fiscal year during the term of the debt
to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt
service requirements of ZPEPC in such year on all debt of ZPEPC
including the debt to be incurred.


﻿-8-
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of ZPEPC
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date
on which it is originally incurred.
(ii)  Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument providing
for such debt or for the modification of its terms of
payment on the date of such contract, agreement or
instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the
date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into.
(iii) The term "net revenues" means the difference
between:
(A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
related to operations and net non-operating
income; and
(B)   the  sum  of all   expenses  related  to
operations including administration, adequate
maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of
taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation,
other non-cash operating charges and interest
and other charges on debt.
(iv) The term "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:
(A)   revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and
(B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of
revenues in (A) above.
(v)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking fund
payments, if any) of, and interest and other charges on,
debt.


﻿-9-
(vi)   The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
prepared by ZPEPC not earlier than twelve months prior
to the incurrence of the debt in question, which both
the Bank and ZPEPC accept as reasonable and as to which
the Bank has notified ZPEPC of its acceptability,
provided that no event has occurred since such
notification which has, or may reasonably be expected in
the future to have, a material adverse effect on the
financial condition or future operating results of
ZPEPC.
(vii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
shall be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such
valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is,
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of
such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable
to the Bank.
Section 4.04. ZPEPC shall prepare and, by April 30 of each
year commencing in 1995, furnish annually to the Bank for review,
until completion of the Project, a rolling long-term financial plan
(including projected income statements, sources and uses of funds
and balance sheets covering a period of no less than eight years)
and exchange views with the Bank on its financial position, focusing
on comparison of actual financial performance with agreed targets,
operating cost trend, future investment and related financing
arrangements.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of ZPEPC thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the
Bank shall promptly notify ZPEPC thereof.


﻿- 10 -
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD              248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC),
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For ZPEPC:
2 Jinzhu Road (South)
Hangzhou
People's Republic of China
Telex:
35053 ZPEPB CN


﻿- 11 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of ZPEPC may be taken or executed by General
Manager or such other person or persons as General Manager shall
designate in writing, and ZPEPC shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By   /3 S  4                 t   c
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY
By                         ep4resenativ
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in accordance with the following
additional procedures:
(a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to and in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines,
by the minimum amount of time required to complete the evaluation,
obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract.
The bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the
bidding documents or the request for extension shall provide for
appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect changes in the
cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such
an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the
Bank's prior review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1
of this Section, the Bank's prior approval will be required for (I)
a first extension of the bid validity period if the period of
extension exceeds sixty (60) days and (ii) any subsequent extension
of the bid validity period.
(b) In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A, ZPEPC shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued or
agreed to by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank
shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.
Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the
Bank,   ZPEPC  shall   use  bidding   documents  based   on  other
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
Part B:      Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in China may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,


﻿- 13 -
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1. Except as provided in paragraph 2 hereof, equipment,
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $300,000 per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,000,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded through limited international bidding
procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids
obtained from at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set forth in Sections
I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55,
2.56 thereof).
2. Equipment, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$300,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$3,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for goods, estimated to cost
the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be


﻿- 14 -
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Emplovment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist EPEPC in carrying out the Project, ZPEPC
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, ZPEPC
shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard
form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank,
ZPEPC shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b)
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost
less than $50,000 equivalent each.   However, said exceptions to
prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or
(e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.


﻿- 15 -
SCDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.    ZPEPC shall, implement the Action Plan within the time
schedule provided therein in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
2.    ZPEPC shall, by January 1, 1996, implement the action plan,
agreed with the Bank, for unifying ZPEPC tariffs.
3.    ZPEPC shall: (a) without limitation upon its obligations under
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, engage (i) financial
management consultants to review its accounting system by December
31, 1995, and    (ii) risk management  consultants to review its
insurance covers by September 30, 1995, both under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank; (b) furnish the results of such
reviews and recommendations pursuant thereto to the Bank; and (c)
implement the said recommendations taking into account the comments
thereon, if any, by the Bank.
4.    ZPEPC shall carry out the Environmental Mitigation Measures
and Monitoring Plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
5. ZPEPC shall carry out the Resettlement Action Plans in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
6.    ZPEPC shall carry out the training program, agreed with the
Bank, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


