LOAN NUMBER 3846 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Zhejiang Power Development Project)
between
PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF ClINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                    , 1995


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3846 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1995, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from certain financial
institutions a syndicated loan in an amount of one hundred million
dollars ($100,000,000) and a syndicated loan in an amount equivalent
to fifty million dollars ($50,000,000) (both syndicated loans
hereinafter referred to as tae Syndicated Loans) to assist in
financing a portion of Part A of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in syndicated loan agreements (the Syndicated
Loan Agreements) to be entered into between the Borrower and the
said financial institutions;
(C) The Project will be carried out by Zhejiang Provincial
Electric Power Company (ZPEPC) with the Borrower's assistance and,
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
ZPEPC the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank ancA. ZPEPC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:


﻿-2-
(a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (1) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
under which any further withdrawals under the
Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of
Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   Action Plan" means ZPEPC's implementation plan dated
January 19, 1995 for power sector reform in Zhejiang, including
commercialization and corporatization of ZPEPC, as said plan may be
modified from time to time in agreement with the Borrower and the
Bank.
(b)   "Affected  Person"   or  'Affected   Persons'  means
individually the person and collectively the persons whose right,
title or interest in any property/assets is acquired or is intended
to be acquired or whose property/assets is otherwise possessed or
intended to be possessed and who as a result thereof has been or
would be displaced or dispossessed from his/their habitat or land or
precluded from carrying out his/their business, occupation or work
or dispossessed of any portion of his/their property/assets on
account of the execution of Parts A, B and C of the Project.
(c)   'Charter" means the Charter of ZPEPC, dated March 30,
1990, or any revised or new charter or such other instrument adopted
by ZPEPC in place thereof in agreement with the Borrower and the
Bank.
(d)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Company (ZPEPC) of even date
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement.
(e)   'Special Account' means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.


﻿-3-
(f)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and ZPEPC pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and the term "Subsidiary Loan' means the loan provided to
ZPEPC thereunder.
(g)    Zhejiang"   means   the   Zhejiang   Province,    an
administrative subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor or
successors thereto.
(h)   "ZPEPC" means the Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power
Company, a state owned enterprise, organized and existing under the
laws of the People's Republic of China or any successor or
successors thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of four hundred million dollars ($400,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) The Borrower may for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a bank,
acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into and payments out of the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
Section 2.05. (a)   The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one porcent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
on the date immediately preceding each date specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the
Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which
may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in
paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
(d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
" (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to


﻿-5-
the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
applicable during such Interest Period.
" (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower
shall cause ZPEPC to perform all its obligations set forth in the
Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken all actions,
including the provision of funds (in particular the proceeds of the
Syndicated Loans), facilities, services and other resources, and the
adjustment of tariffs necessary or appropriate to enable ZPEPC to
perform such obligations (particularly the obligation to implement
the Action Plan), and shall not take -or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
ZPEPC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and ZPEPC, under terms and conditions which shall have
been agreed to by the Bank which shall include: (i) the proceeds of


﻿6-
the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid over a period of twenty years,
including five years of grace; (ii) ZPEPC shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time at the rate calculated in accordance with Section
2.05 of this Agreement; (iii) ZPEPC shall pay to the Borrower a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan not
withdrawn from time to time at the rate stated in Section 2.04 of
this Agreement; and (iv) ZPEPC shall bear the foreign exchange risk
in respect of the Subsidiary Loan.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds rf the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project shall
be carried out by ZPEPC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and accounts
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or


﻿-7-
payment out of the Special Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
included  in   the  annual   audit  referred   to  in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of
such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can
be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance  with   appropriate   auditing  principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank;
(ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) ZPEPC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.


﻿-8-
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that ZPEPC will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) The Charter shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
.repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of ZPEPC to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of ZPEPC or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) The Syndicated Loan Agreements shall have failed to become
effective by December 31, 1995, or such later date as the Bank may
agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(f) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms thereof,
or
(B)   any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure
of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and (E) adequate funds for the Project
are available to the Borrower from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of
the Borrower under this Agreement.


﻿-9-
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of ninety
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower;
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e) of this
Agreement shall occur; and
(c) the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf
of the Borrower and ZPEPC.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by ZPEPC, and is legally binding upon ZPEPC in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and ZPEPC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and ZPEPC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:                Telex:
FINANMIN               22486 MFPRC
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD              248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC),
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By              r /
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By    S
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-12-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(1)   Goods                355,000,000         100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 75%
of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(2)   Consultants'          12,500,000         100%
services and
training
(3)  Unallocated            32,500,000
TOTAL                 400,000,000
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and


﻿- 13 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1, 000, 000, may be
made in respect of Category 2 on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after June 30, 1994.
4. The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for goods less than $5,000,000 equivalent,
consultancy contracts less than $100,000 equivalent for firms and
$50,000 equivalent for individuals, and all training under such
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to
(a) meet rapidly expanding electricity demand   in a least cost
manner; (b) promote power sector reform including commercialization
and corporatization of the provincial power enterprise; (c) upgrade
management capabilities and systems to enable the provincial power
enterprise to operate efficiently in a commercial environment; (d)
promote competition at generation level through establishment of
market oriented commercial arrangements between power generation and
marketing entities; (e) encourage alternative financing strategies
for power development; (f) improve supply side efficiency through
reduction of transmission and distribution losses; and (g) reduce
environmental impacts of new generation, in Zhejiang.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
PART A: Construction of Beiluncrang Phase II Power Plant
Construction of 3x600 megawatt (MW) pulverized coal fired
generating units (units 3, 4, and 5) and provision of associated
equipment and facilities as an extension to the existing 2x600 MW
Beilungang Power Station in Zhejiang.
PART B: Transmission Network Expansion
Expansion and reinforcement of the transmission network in
Znejiang by erection of a new 500 kilovolt (kV) substation (1x750
MVA) at Jinhua, extension of the 500 kV substation (1x750 MVA) at
Shaoxing and 500 kV substation (1 x 750 MVA) at Pingyao; and
provision of a second circuit of 500 kV on the Shaoxing-Pingyao
transmission line (about 97 kilometer (kn)), a new circuit of 500kV
on the Shaoxing-Jinhua transmission line (about 145 km), and a third
circuit of 500 kV Beilungang - Shaoxing transmission line (about 140
km).
PART C: Distribution Networks Reinforcement
Reinforcement of distribution networks in Hangzhou and Ningbo
Municipalities of Zhejiang through the provision of: (a) a 220 kV
loop network of about 42 circuit-km along with about 56 circuit-km
of 110 kV network and about 60 circuit-km of 10kV network in


﻿- 15 -
Hangzhou; and (b) about 87 circuit-km of 220 kV network, about 96
circuit-km of 110 kV network, and about 55 circuit-km of 10 kV
network in Ningbo.
PART D: Resettlement and Rehabilitation
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons under
Parts A, B, and C of the Project.
PART E: Technical Assistance
1.    Provision of engineering and construction management services
for Beilungang Phase II Power Plant.
2.    Provision of legal assistance for the preparation of support
agreements and other documentation required as security for the
Wangjiangmen cogeneration plant.
3.    Provision of assistance to ZPEPC to: (i) implement the Action
Plan; (ii) establish a computerized financial management information
system (FMIS); (iii) improve transmission and distribution planning;
(iv) upgrade environmental monitoring; and (v) support ZPEPC's
training program.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*
October 1, 2000                           7,690,000
April 1, 2001                             7,965,000
October 1, 2001                           8,245,000
April 1, 2002                             8,540,000
October 1, 2002                           8,840,000
April 1, 2003                             9,155,000
October 1, 2003                           9,480,000
April 1, 200                             9,815,000
October 1, 2004                          10,165,000
April 1, 2005                            10,525,000
October 1, 2005                          10,895,000
April 1, 2006                            11,285,000
October 1, 2006                          11,685,000
April 1, 2007                            12,095,000
October 1, 2007                          12,525,000
April 1, 2008                            12,970,000
October 1, 2008                          13,430,000
April 1, 2009                            13,905,000
October 1, 2009                          14,400,000
April 1, 2010                            14,910,000
October 1, 2010                          15,440,000
April 1, 2011                            15,985,000
October 1, 2011                          16,550,000
April 1, 2012                            17,140,000
October 1, 2012                          17,745,000
April 1, 2013                            18,375,000
October 1, 2013                          19,025,000
April 1, 2014                            19,700,000
October 1, 2014                          20,400,000
April 1, 2015                            21,120,000
*The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined
as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions,
Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment             Premium
The interest rate
(expressed as a
percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan
on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years                  0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                  0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                    0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                 0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                 0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                  1.00
maturity


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 and 2
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b) the term 'eligible expenditures'  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $25,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount
equivalent to $15,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals
from the Loan account plus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of $120,000,000.
2. Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3. After the Bank has receited evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special
Account shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.


﻿- 19 -
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits
into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
(b) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;


﻿- 20 -
(c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the. Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6. (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.


﻿- 21 -
(d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


