India
Ecodevelopment Project
Project Document
September 1996
LIU
THE WORLD BANK



GEF Documentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries to protect
the global environmenl in four areas: global warming, pollution of international waters,
destruction of biodiversity, and depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemented
bythe United Nations Development Programme. the United Nations Environment Programme,
and the World Bank.
GEF Project Documents - identified by a green band - provide extended project-
specific information. The implementing agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on the cover of the document.
Global Environment
Coordination Division
Environment Department
World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-1816
Fax: (202) 522-3256



15sxq. ~
INDIA
Ecodevelopment Project
Project Document
September 1996
South Asia Department II
Agriculture and Water Division



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs.)
US$1.00  =  Rs.35.1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report.
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



ABBREVIATIONS
DGS&D         Directorate General of Supply and Disposal
DEA           Department of Economic Affairs
EDC           Ecodevelopment Committee
GEF           Global Environment Facility
GOI           Government of India
GOS           State Government
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDA           International Development Association
JFM           Joint Forest Management
MOEF          Ministry of Environment and Forestry
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
NTFP          Non-Timber Forest Product
PA            Protected Area
PAMIA         Protected Area Mutual Impact Assessment
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
PTO           Project Tiger Office
PRA           Participatory Rural Appraisal
SFD           State Forest Department
SOE           Statement of Expenses
TOR           Terms of Reference
TR            Tiger Reserve
UNDP          United National Development Program






Part I: Project Summary






Part 1: Project Summary
1. Background                                                         1
1.1   Extent and Status of Biodiversity                        1
1.2   Government Policy                                        2
1.3   Ecodevelopment Strategy                                  3
1.4   Existing Institutional Responsibilities, Capacity, and Coordination  4
1.5   Lessons from Other Projects                              5
1.6   Project Preparation Process                              5
2.  The Project                                                       7
2.1   Rationale for GEF and IDA Funding                        7
2.2   Project Areas and Participants                           7
2.3   Project Objectives                                       9
2.4   Summary of Project Content                               8
2.5   Detailed Features                                        9
3. Project Costs and Financing                                       17
3.1   Project Cost Estimates                                   17
3.2   Financing Plan                                           18
3.3   Procurement                                              19
3.4   Disbursements                                            22
3.5   Accounts and Audit                                       23
4. Project Implementation                                            25
4.1   Staffing and Organizational Structure                    25
4.2   Flow of Funds and Work Plans                             27
4.3   Project Performance Review                               29
5. Project Impacts and Justification                                 31
5.1   Benefits and Outputs                                     31
5.2   Environmental Impact                                     31
5.3   Social Impact                                            32
5.4   Sustainability                                           33
5.5   Risks                                                    34
6. Tables                                                            35
Estimated Costs                                         35
Financing Plan                                           35
Amount and Method of Procurement                        36
Summary Disbursement Schedule                           37
Estimated IDA and GEF Disbursements                     38
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events              38



India: Ecodevelopment Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                India, Acting by its President
Implementing Agencies:   GOI Ministry of Environment and Forestry and State Forest
Departments of Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya
Pradesh, Rajasthan, and West Bengal
Beneficiaries:            Globally important protected area ecosystems and people in
and around these areas
Credit Amount:           IDA Credit of SDR 19.5 million (US$28 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard, with 35 years maturity
Financing Plan            See table in Schedule A
Fund Advance Terms:      From GOI to state governments as part of central assistance
to the states through MOEF for development assistance on
standard terms and conditions applicable at the time
Grant Amount:             Global Environment Facility (GEF) Grant of SDR 13.9
million (US$20 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Grant
Financing Plan            See table in Schedule A
Poverty Category:         Program of Targeted Interventions
The project's human beneficiaries, tribal peoples, and forest
fringe villagers, belong to the poorest sections of society.
About 39 percent of the beneficiaries are tribal. Tribal
development concerns are integrated under the rubric of
social impact, participation, and equity, rather than as a
subsidiary tribal development plan or component. The
project also incorporates specific measures to safeguard the
interests of the landless and women
Environment Category:    Program of Targeted Interventions - globally significant
biodiversity
Economic Rate of Return  Cannot be quantified 14914-IN
Staff Appraisal Report    Report No. 14914 IN
Project ID Number        INPA36062; INGE9584
Vice President: D. Joseph Wood
Director:     Heinz Vergin
Division Chief: Shawki Barghouti
Task Manager: Jessica Mott



INDIA
ECODEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. Background
A. Extent and Status of Biodiversity
1.1   Biological Significance. India's biodiversity is rich, often unique and increasingly
endangered. India is one of the twelve megadiversity countries in the world, that
collectively account for 60-70 percent of the world's biodiversity. Its ten biogeographic
zones represent a broad range of ecosystems. India has 6% of the world's flowering plant
species and 14% of the world's birds. There are over 45,000 identified plant species. One-
third of its 15,000 flowering plants are found only in India. It has 81,000 identified species
of animals. Some 14% of its 1,228 bird species, 32% of its 446 reptile species and 62% of
its 204 amphibians are unique to India. The endangerment of some ten percent of all plant
species and over 21% of the 372 mammal species indicates a widespread degradation of
ecosystems that has significant economic implications.
1.2   Economic Importance. India's biological resources are economically important,
both globally and nationally. As one of the oldest and largest agricultural societies, India
has an impressive diversity of crop species and varieties. At least 166 species of crop
plants and 320 species of wild relatives of cultivated crops originate on the subcontinent.
About 90% of all medicines in India come from plant species, many of which are harvested
in the wild. Medicinal plants and other non-timber forest products are particularly
important as a source of income and subsistence for tribal populations. Closed primary
forests, which cover about 21 million hectares, or six percent of the total land area, and
one-third of the total forest area, have been an important source of timber and fuelwood.
Natural ecosystems strongly influence natural resource development (agriculture,
livestock, forestry and fishery sectors contributed 32% of GDP in 1992/3), provide new
commercial products (e.g., pharmaceuticals) and also affect water resource management,
which is important not only for agriculture but also for industrial and municipal
development.
1.3   Protected Areas. India has 75 parks and 421 sanctuaries, covering some 14
million hectares (i.e., 4.3 percent of the total land area). Most of these areas received
protection status relatively recently; there were only 10 parks and 127 sanctuaries in 1970.
Selected high priority parks and sanctuaries, sometimes in combination with contiguous
reserve forest areas are managed as tiger and elephant reserves. ). Some protected areas
(PAs) have few or no human inhabitants, while others have small communities with
significant human populations in the aggregate. Village economies on the peripheries of
these protected areas are based on long-established sedentary agricultural systems.
1.4   Pressures. The biodiversity in India's forest, grassland, wetland and marine
ecosystems faces many pressures. These include grazing cattle, cutting of trees for fuel,
and timber, gathering of non-timber forest products, hunting, uncontrolled fires, and
conversion for and spillover from agricultural, infrastructure, industrial, and commercial



2
development (e.g., pollution, siltation, and weed infestation). India's high levels of human
population density and growth, high incidence of poverty, and large numbers of livestock
speed the degradation. Local people, when traditional rights and access are limited by the
establishment of PAs, often have little incentive to use natural resources in a sustainable
way.
B. Government Policy
1.5   India's forest and environmental policies, plans, and actions reflect a significant,
continuing commitment to biodiversity conservation. Annex 1 provides a detailed
overview of these policies and related legislation
1.6   Convention on Biological Diversity. The Government of India has ratified the
Convention and taken recent policy and program initiatives corresponding to Convention
aims. These are to reconcile the need for conservation with the concern for development
and give careful consideration to equity and shared responsibility. Ministry of Environment
and Forestry (MOEF) is identifying further actions required by the Convention.
1.7   Biodiversity in Action Plans and Policy Statements. The Government's plans
and policies reflect its strong commitment to conserve and sustainably use biodiversity.
The 1988 National Forest Policy treats forests as: (a) an ecological necessity, (b) a source
of goods for use by local populations, and (c) a source of wood and other products for
industries and other non-local users. India's Environmental Action Plan, published in
1993, lists "conservation of and sustainable utilization of biodiversity in selected
ecosystems" as one of the top seven priorities for future action, and specifically cites
ecodevelopment. The National Wildlife Action Plan (1983) identified the following goals:
(a)   Establishing a representative network of protected areas
(b)   Developing appropriate management systems for protected areas, with due
regard for the needs of local people and ensuring their support and
involvement
(c)   Protecting biodiversity within multiple-use areas, and
(d)   Extending conservation efforts beyond protected areas.
In 1988, the Wildlife Institute of India produced a biogeographic classification for
conservation planning and formulated a plan for a revised network of protected areas.
1.8   Interaction Between Protected Areas and Local People. In the past twenty
years, state governments, with national assistance, have developed an extensive network
of PAs strongly enforced by forest departments. During this period, governments'
approach to local people has sometimes been confrontational with significant impacts,
mostly negative, on the tribal populations resident within protected areas. There is a long
history of communities, especially tribal groups, inhabiting or using forests that were
subsequently designated as PAs. Local people were involved (usually without government
recognition or sanction) in managing the forest and wildlife. Increasing government
protection and legal control have curtailed local communities' resource use and
management, forced changes in traditional livelihoods, and removed incentives to use
resources sustainably. Forest department employment opportunities have also shrunk with
the establishment of PAs and the ban on timber harvesting in most forest areas.



3
1.9   Community Participation in Forest Management. Now the Government is
recognizing the historic, current, and potential role of local communities. The initial
government effort to increase community participation was focused not on protected
areas, but rather on forests officially designated for local or commercial harvest. Through
this effort, called joint forest management (JFM), decision-making authority and
responsibility for control over forest lands and their products are shared between forest
departments and local user groups. Agreements specify the distribution of authority,
responsibility, and benefits. Initiated in the 1 970s, early success led to expansion of JFM
programs throughout India. Several now receive support through Bank-funded state
forestry projects.
C. Ecodevelopment Strategy
1.10  Definition of Ecodevelopment. In response to pressures on protected areas, the
Government is now beginning to address the special issues regarding participatory
management of protected areas through a strategy of ecodevelopment. The strategy aims
to conserve biodiversity by addressing both the impact of local people on the protected
areas and the impact of the protected areas on local people. Ecodevelopment thus has
two main thrusts: improvement of PA management and involvement of local people. In
doing so it seeks to improve the capacity of PA management to conserve biodiversity
effectively, to involve local people in PA planning and protection, to develop incentives
for conservation, and to support sustainable alternatives to harmful use of resources. It
supports collaboration between the state forest departments and local communities in and
around ecologically valuable areas. Ecodevelopment addresses the welfare and behavior of
local people and integrates these concerns into management of protected areas. It also
builds private-sector stakeholder support for conservation among NGOs, nature tour
operators, and the general public.
1.11  Existing Ecodevelopment Programs. To date, programs for supporting PA/local
community linkages have been limited and small scale. In recent years, using domestic
financing, the Ministry of Environment and Forestry (MOEF) has initiated a centrally
sponsored scheme with an annual average value of about US$1 million that is distributed
to dozens of PAs. The Bank has financed five forestry projects with biodiversity
conservation components that include village ecodevelopment investments associated with
protected areas. Implementation of these ecodevelopment programs is only beginning.
Nevertheless, the design of the Ecodevelopment Project has already built on the
conceptualization and participatory planning of the earlier programs. The specialized
attention that preparation of the Ecodevelopment Project has received has already
produced detailed written guidelines that are being applied to programs already in
progress.
1.12  Potential Scope of Ecodevelopment. Should this project prove it to be feasible,
ecodevelopment potentially might benefit 100-200 PAs. As a next step, the Governent is
seeking support for an experimental demonstration and capacity-building project that
would build on and integrate existing experience, would be large enough to establish the
feasibility of ecodevelopment in a variety of situations, and would provide for expansion in
the long term. As a national project, such an undertaking would have the potential to
address multi-state ecodevelopment issues and management processes and to establish a
basis for programmatic financing. Proceeding now with a limited version of such a project



4
is justified by the extent and urgency of human pressures on protected areas. Incorporating
full-scale ecodevelopment at a large number of sites at this time would not be appropriate,
given the complexity of issues, lack of implementation experience, and amount of
participatory preparation required.
D. Existing Institutional Responsibilities, Capacity and Coordination
1.13  Protected Area Management. State and national governments take their
responsibility for PA management seriously and professionally, and have assigned
significant numbers of staff. The national Project Tiger scheme, for example, supplements
state support in 21 PAs by providing incentives to staff and by compensating local people
for animal depredation. Although funding for PA management has been limited, it has been
more adequate than in most developing countries. Management plans exist for all seven
project PAs and cover an implementation period of 5 to 10 years, but most of these plans
need updating in the next few years, and management skills of PA staff need improvement.
In addition, PA management activities need to be better integrated into the broader
ecological, sociological, and regional sphere. In many Indian PAs, humans have already
modified the environment so much that the remaining species and ecological communities
need carefully planned human intervention in order to survive.
1.14  Village Ecodevelopment. In existing programs, the linkage between village
ecodevelopment investments and conservation actions has generally been implicit rather
than explicit, through reciprocal commitments. Government initiatives have usually
employed traditional top-down approaches to project planning and implementation, even
when the programs have embraced the principle of a more participatory approach.
Detailed guidance on participatory processes has been lacking. Some forest department
staff have experience relevant to village ecodevelopment based on their work with past
and ongoing joint forest management and social forestry programs. Training programs are
now being designed to apply this expertise to PA-oriented ecodevelopment microplanning.
NGOs also have extensive capacity and experience in fostering community participation.
PA authorities have begun to forge links with NGOs but these links generally have relied
on informal arrangements rather than formal contracts.
1 .15 Environmental Education. PA awareness and education programs have mainly
consisted of the construction of an interpretation center for visitors and the preparation of
posters or leaflets.
1.16 Monitoring and Research. Monitoring in PAs has focused on large mammals.
There is room for improvement in both the methodological design of existing activities and
the breadth of focus. Research institutions and individuals have conducted a number of
studies and inventories of flora and fauna. This research has contributed to redefinition of
PA boundaries, the establishment of new PAs, and recognition of the need for increased
policing, but additional research is needed to improve the understanding of other issues
relevant to PA management. PAs lack the facilities, equipment, and personnel to
undertake research themselves.
1.17  Annex 2 provides further analysis of the existing organizational structure and
capacity.



5
E. Lessons from Other Projects
1.18 Conservation, forestry, rural/urban development, and multi-state projects have all
provided lessons that highlight the importance of:
(a)   Linkage between economic investments and conservation
(b)   Building understanding and consensus on project concept
(c)   Maintaining project size within realistic, achievable limits
(d)   Involving disadvantaged groups in participatory resource management
(e)   Using contractual agreements between government entities and local
communities
(f)    Assessing incentives for beneficiaries
(g)   Avoiding numerical physical output targets and top-down planning
(h)   Using participatory rural appraisal (PRA) exercises and cost sharing
arrangements to increase ownership, appropriateness, and sustainability of
investments
(i)    Using existing organizational structures and skilled specialists
G)    Developing transparent and verifiable monitoring to ensure accountability
(k)   Disbursing funds to states in response to past performance and to work
plans that meet clear criteria
(1)    Specifying a clear identity and mandate, designated full-time staff, and
adequately delegated financial and administrative powers for the central
coordinating unit.
Annex 3 provides a further summary of lessons learned.
F. Project Preparation Process
1.19 Site Selection Criteria. In consultation with NGOs and state governments,
MOEF selected project PAs from a list of areas where the threats to biodiversity stem
from local rural dependencies. Selection criteria comprised biodiversity importance,
biogeographic representation and likelihood of success. The success factor took into
account the extent of human pressures, PA management capacity, existing infrastructure
(which accounts for six of the eight sites being tiger reserves), accessibility, state and
national government support and state government responsiveness to community and
NGO involvement in forest management.
1.20 Exclusion of Similipal Tiger Reserve in Orissa. The 1994 government proposal
was for eight sites, but the Bank reduced the project scope to seven sites by excluding the
Similipal Tiger Reserve in Orissa, without prejudice to future considerations. The Bank
received documentation on relocation plans and activities in Similipal, but this did not
confirm that all relocation after preappraisal had been and could in the future be consistent
with the project strategy for people in the PAs. The Bank was particularly concerned that
relocation be voluntary and be consistent with the best practices outlined in the Bank's
operational directives.



6
1.21   Participatory Preparation Process. Preparation for the project has emphasized
client ownership, local participation and public involvement (e.g., information
dissemination, consultations). MOEF prepared the project with the assistance of
professional institutes, NGOs and state forestry departments and financing from the
UNDP/GEF Preinvestment Facility. Bank staff and foreign consultants provided limited
periodic comments and advice. The preparation incorporated technical papers from in-
country experts, reviews of completed studies, and collections of available information
(e.g. population censuses, ethnographies, scientific reports). It also applied participatory
rural appraisal (PRA) techniques and indicative planning in an innovative way based on
sample views of local people about biodiversity issues. Preparation was conducted by one
NGO/professional institute as national coordinator, two professional ecological/wildlife
institutes, four specialists as national consultants and twelve state-level NGOs. More than
40 conservation and rural development NGOs have participated in the NGO and public
consultations. Preparation included 38 recorded meetings between March 1992 and May
1995 to discuss project design and work plans. There were 14 site visits to select the sites,
four inter-state PRA training sessions, four state-level PRA training workshops, and
eleven national consultation meetings. Annex 4 provides a more detailed description of the
project preparation process.
1.22  Project Preparation Facility Advance. In January, 1995, in response to a request
from GOI, the Bank provided a US$2 million Project Preparation Facility (PPF) Advance.
The Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) countersigned the PPF agreement letter in
March, 1995, but the flow of funds began only in December 1995. In order to meet the
condition of appraisal by May, 1995, government agencies, NGOs, and other
organizations that prepared essential reports spent their own resources in anticipation of
eventual reimbursement by the PPF. In addition to providing funds for completing project
design prior to project appraisal, the advance is expected to finance village
ecodevelopment activities on a pilot basis, consultancies needed to develop detailed
guidelines and arrangements, office equipment, training and workshops in preparation for
project startup expected in October 1996. A portion of the International Development
Association (IDA) credit would be used to refinance the advance. The initiation of
negotiations of the Ecodevelopment Project was contingent on many actions associated
with the PPF including guarantees that GOI and state governments had begun to
implement the activities required for a timely and full-scale startup to the project and had
demonstrated their capacity to meet project administration requirements. These actions are
described in relevant sections of Chapters I1-V and summarized in Chapter VI.
Discussions with NGOs have revealed a range of perspectives, including constructive suggestions for
design improvements and expressions of distrust of any activities receiving financial support from
the Bank.



7
IL The Project
A. Rationale for GEF and IDA Funding
2.1   Rationale for GEF Involvement and Incremental Costs. The project is fully
consistent with the Convention on Biological Diversity and the GEF Council guidance.
The GOI has identified ecodevelopment as a national priority in the biodiversity action
plans and policy statements (see paragraph 1.7). The project would address urgent global
biodiversity conservation needs. The project would conserve biodiversity in seven critical
areas, in a megadiversixy country. One of the seven areas, Gir, has the world's only
population of Asian lions. The other six project sites support vital populations of tigers,
one of the world's most endangered carnivores. In combination, these sites give good
biogeographic and habitat coverage (e.g., dry deciduous open forests, semi-evergreen
forests, moist deciduous open forests and wet evergreen forests, in forest, semiarid, and
mountain ecosystems). The level of threats to biodiversity in the seven sites is high and
requires a substantial effort on an urgent basis. The analysis of incremental costs in
accordance with GEF guidelines shows baseline costs of US$19 million and incremental
costs of US$48 million, which would be financed by GEF and IDA. The Government of
India realizes that, in view of the scale of external funding required, it cannot expect to
receive a GEF grant sufficient to cover the entire incremental cost of the global
alternative. However, it is so strongly committed to the objectives of the project that it is
willing to borrow up to US$28 million of IDA resources to cover 58% of the incremental
cost. A GEF grant of US$20 million would cover the remaining 42% of the incremental
cost. Annex 5 further analyzes the rationale for GEF, including the calculation of
incremental costs.
2.2   Country Assistance Strategy The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
India dated May 1995 explicitly encourages Bank and GEF financing of ecodevelopment
as an important way for the Bank to support biodiversity conservation. The CAS mentions
that such financing would build on the Bank's support for recent forestry projects. The
project would also act on CAS concerns by enhancing participation, involving NGOs, and
increasing women's role in managing productive resources. The project also would
implement the new approaches to conservation outlined in the Bank's 1991 Forest Sector
Policy. These approaches incorporate local people into PA management activities, benefit
sharing, and planning, and emphasize consideration of the needs and welfare of forest-
dwelling people.
B. Project Areas and Participants
2.3   Biogeographical Features. The seven project areas would include protected areas
(PAs) as well as villages in areas peripheral to the PA but within a 2 km. radius of the
PA's boundary. Five of the seven PAs are tiger reserves, which generally comprise
gazetted and proposed parks and sanctuaries, plus specified areas of reserve forests and
tourism zones. There are two PAs that are not tiger reserves: Nagarhole, which is a
Project Elephant reserve comprising a declared national park, and Gir, a declared national
park that has the world's only wild population of asiatic lions. The total land area of the
tiger reserves and national parks is 6714 sq. km., with 2014 sq. km. managed as core



8
areas. Individual PAs range in size from 643 to 1412 sq. km., with core areas ranging from
192 to 393 sq. km.
2.4   Demographic Features. About 427,000 villagers would participate in the project;
of these 89,000 currently live within the PAs (mostly in enclaves and other non-core parts
of tiger reserves where human settlement is allowed). About 39% of the participants
would be tribal. ). The number of participants range from 36,000 to 77,000 per PA. The
project would cover as many of the people living within 2 km. of the PA boundaries as
possible, within the limits of institutional capacity. The intensity of local people's impacts
on the PA provided the basis to select specific participating villages. Most of the village
ecodevelopment investments would take place in the periphery area. Annex 6 further
describes the project areas.
C. Project Objectives
2.5   The project would conserve biodiversity by implementing the ecodevelopment
strategy in and around seven protected areas (PAs) and would also include support for
preparing future biodiversity projects. The main objectives would be:
(a)   To improve capacity of PA management to conserve biodiversity and
increase opportunities for local participation in PA management activities
and decisions
(b)   To reduce negative impacts of local people on biodiversity, reduce negative
impacts of PAs on local people, and increase collaboration of local people
in conservation efforts
(c)   To develop more effective and extensive support for ecodevelopment
(d)   To ensure effective management of this project, and
(e)   To prepare future biodiversity projects.
D. Summary of Project Content
2.6   The US$67 million project would be implemented over a five-year period from
October 1996 through September 2001. The components correspond to the objectives
listed above and comprise:
(a)   Improved PA management (US$14 mln. - 22 % of the base costs):
(i)   improving PA planning processes and building capacity
(ii)   protecting and managing ecosystems and habitats within the PA
(iii) upgrading PA amenities for field staff
(b)   Village ecodevelopment (US$34 mln. - 55 % of the base costs) that
reduces negative interactions of local people on biodiversity and increases
collaboration of local people in conservation by:
(i)   conducting participatory microplanning and providing
implementation support



9
(ii)  implementing reciprocal commitments that foster alternative
livelihoods and resource uses to be financed by a village
ecodevelopment program and that specify measurable actions by
local people to improve conservation
(iii)  special programs for additional joint forest management, voluntary
relocation, and supplemental investments for special needs
(c)   Education & awareness and impact monitoring & research (US$5 mln. - 8
% of the base costs) that develops more effective and extensive support for
PA ecodevelopment including:
(i)   promoting public support for conservation through environmental
education and awareness campaigns
(ii)  impact monitoring and research to improve understanding of issues
and solutions relevant to PA management and interactions between
PAs and people
(d)   Overallproject management (US$5 mln. 9 % of the base costs):
(e)   Preparation offuture biodiversity projects (US$2 mln. - 4 % of the base
costs):
(i)   Second Ecodevelopment Project
(ii)   Biodiversity Information Project
(iii)  Ex-situ Conservation Project, and
(f)   Reimbursement of the Project Preparation Facility (US$2 mln. - 3 % of
the base costs).
E. Detailed Features
Improved PA Management
2.7   Improving PA Planning Processes and Building Capacity. The improved
planning processes and capacity building would use specialist advice, studies, workshops,
associated travel costs, and training containing two main parts:
(a)   To strengthen PA management plans and the capacity to implement the
plans
(i)    a two year updating process and skill building process would:
*     update PA management plans in conformity with current
guidelines
*     incorporate ecological considerations, including boundary
rationalization, buffer forest land management, and
broadening the focus of the plan to cover ecosystems in
addition to species



10
*     introduce processes and arrangements to broaden
participation and cooperation of local people and outside
groups, including increasing consultation, and developing
benefit sharing arrangements for PA byproducts and
enterprises
*     develop PA-specific financial sustainability strategies
*     incorporate initiatives supported under other project
components (e.g., village ecodevelopment, environmental
education strategies, research strategies, etc.).
(ii)  the component would also include support throughout the project
for training in PA management skills.
(b)   To incorporate PA concerns into regional planning and regulation, which
would involve.
(i)   early identification and assessment of existing and proposed
activities outside the scope of the project that might potentially
undermine effective biodiversity conservation of the PAs or
undermine implementation of the ecodevelopment strategy in and
around the PAs and
(ii)   strengthening the capacity for environmental site clearance and
monitoring of non-project activities using existing environmental
protection regulations and agreed best practice for environmental
assessment and resettlement.
2.8   Protecting and Managing Ecosystems and Habitats. During project
preparation, the PA authorities developed an indicative list of activities based on existing
plans and available information. The scope and nature of these activities differ from PA to
PA and in most cases would be very site specific. The broad categories of activities are:
(a)   Ecosystem and habitat restoration and
(b)   Improving fire, poaching, and animal control.
These activities would require inputs of restoration and control works, associated
supervision, communications equipment, a limited number of vehicles and boats, minor
access track improvements, fire watch towers, sign boards, boundary markers, and other
works and goods in accordance with recommendations of the PA management plans. The
updated PA management plans described above, once completed and cleared by the Bank,
would determine the specific content of investments in this subcomponent. However,
some investments in ecosystem protection and management would be required prior to the
likely completion of the PA management plan updating. In order to ensure that activities
implemented in the interim are sound and do not have a negative impact on biodiversity
and the environment, PA officials would demonstrate prior to implementation that the
activities would (a) conserve biodiversity; (b) be urgently needed; (c) not foreclose options
being considered for the updated PA management plans; (d) be consistent with existing
PA management plans; (e) be technically feasible; (f) not erode customary tenure rights of
tribals, and (g) be environmentally sustainable.



I1
2.9   Annex 7 describes details of the improved PA management planning processes,
clearance requirements, technical assistance, and training. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that planning and implementation of the ecosystem protection and
management investments would be in accordance with guidance agreed with IDA.
2.10  Upgrading Amenities for PA Staff. The selection of the seven PAs was premised
in part on the fact that these PAs already had good facilities and would not require
extensive infrastructure improvements. Nevertheless, some upgrading of the amenities for
lowest ranked PA staff, would be required and would comprise limited staff quarters for
the lowest ranked PA staff, patrol camps, and drinking water and electricity supplies for
some locations. In addition, career development training and field kits for staff would be
supported under the project.
Village Ecodevelopment
2.11  Microplanning and Implementation Support. Conducting participatory
microplanning and providing implementation support for reciprocal commitments would
use contracted local NGOs, expert advisors, workshops, materials, training (of
government officials, NGOs, and local people), and PA staff travel to:
(a)   Undertake participatory mutual interaction assessment of PA and local
people
(b)   Explain and consider the implications of the eligibility criteria, budget
constraints, local contribution requirements, and applications of traditional
natural resource management systems
(c)   Identify potential investments and activities which would mitigate negative
PA-people interactions
(d)   Analyze the financial, technical, institutional, and social feasibility of the
proposed programs
(e)   Strengthen capacity of implementing institutions (e.g. village groups, park
personnel, NGOs, etc.)
(f)    Confirm reciprocal microplan agreements that address negative interactions
of both PA and local people, and
(g)   Facilitate the review and implementation of the reciprocal commitments.
Teams comprising PA staff and local NGO staff (with each team including at least one
woman) would use specially focused participatory rural appraisal techniques, called a
protected area mutual interaction assessment (PAMIA). The PAMIA would facilitate
detailed village-level planning of reciprocal ecodevelopment commitments. These teams
would take special care to ensure that women, tribal groups, and other disadvantaged
people participate in the planning process and benefit from the agreed program. PA-level
ecologists, social scientists, and other specialists would provide advice and review the
proposed microplans to ensure that they met eligibility criteria. National-level specialists
would also review proposals presenting new or difficult issues. Annex 8 outlines
microplan procedures and contents in detail.



12
2.12 Implementing the Reciprocal Commitments. Reciprocity would reside in the
mutual quid pro quo of (a) specific measurable actions by local people to improve
conservation and (b) investments that foster altemative resources use and livelihoods.
PRA surveys in sample communities in and around the PAs have enabled the project
preparation teams to identify an indicative list of possible ecodevelopment investments and
actions to improve conservation. Investments categories include: biomass substitution
(e.g. alternative fuels), biomass generation and forestry, ecotourism, agriculture including
watershed management, small irrigation and livestock, agro-processing, and artisanry.
These investment ideas need site-specific review to judge whether they meet eligibility
criteria, and other proposals may be identified during more detailed planning. Examples of
actions to improve conservation include curtailing grazing, curtailing fuelwood collection
within the PA, and increasing participation in anti-poaching efforts.
2.13  Investment Eligibility Criteria. The eligibility criteria specifies that village
ecodevelopment investments associated with the reciprocal commitments would:
(a)    Conserve biodiversity by reducing negative and increasing positive
interactions between people and PAs, either directly, or indirectly by
creating sufficient incentives for a consensus that commits local people to
specific, measurable actions that improve conservation (the other essential
element of the reciprocal commitment)
(b)   Mitigate the negative impacts of the previous establishment of the PAs on
vulnerable groups and ensure equitable distribution of benefits to
populations currently dependent on the PAs, especially tribals, women and
other disadvantaged people
(c)   Add supplemental resources, i.e., alternative sources of funding and
support is not available
(d)   Be technicallyfeasible, e.g., inputs and technical advice are adequate;
physical conditions are suitable
(e)   Be financiallyfeasible, e.g., costs within norms or cleared by PA manager,
returns are sufficient to compensate for PA resources foregone, and for all
investments intended to produce cash revenue or benefits that can be
monetized, market linkages are adequate, cash flow requirements are
viable, and returns compare favorably with alternative investment options,
(f)    Be socially and institutionally feasible, e.g., associated activities are
culturally acceptable, local institutional capacity is adequate to organize
forest protection, distribute benefits from common resources, provide
physical maintenance, keep accounts, meet contribution requirements, etc.,
and
(g)   Be environmentally sustainable, e.g., adverse environmental impact of
exotic species, agro-chemicals, construction activity, can be ameliorated or
avoided.
(h)   Be selected and "owned" by EDCs, ensured through use of budget
constraint mechanism and contribution requirement.



13
Village ecodevelopment investments associated with the reciprocal commitments must
meet all of the above criteria. Annex 8 describes the process and documentation required
to ensure that these criteria are met, including specific eligibility and feasibility
considerations. Annexes 17 and 18 provide further guidance on environmental and social
considerations.
2.14 Budget Constraints and Phasing The total costs of the ecodevelopment
investments that would be associated with reciprocal commitment would not exceed Rs.
10,000 (US$285) base costs per family, plus Rs. 500 (US$14) per family at preinvestment
(i.e., during initial microplanning) to establish credibility. The funding of the Rs. 10,000
per family would usually be spread out over a three year period, with one third of the total
resources available each year. The budget constraint per EDC would be calculated on a
per household basis, multiplied by the total number of households. For example, a forty-
family hamlet would make decisions within a binding budget constraint of Rs. 133,333
(US$3,800) for the first year, or Rs. 400,000 (US$11,400) over the three years. Annex 8
further explains the basis and arrangments for the budget constraint mechanism.
2.15  Contributions of Local People. Local people would contribute at least 25 percent
of the Rs. 10,000 per household village ecodevelopment investment in cash, kind, or labor.
Payment from project funds for the market value of contributions would be made available
to the local people for additional community investments.This arrangement would thus
help to extend the incentive mechanism beyond the period of the project investments.
Amnex 8 describes further details of the arrangements for local contributions.
2.16  Special Programs. These programs would mostly take place outside the national
park and sanctuary boundaries but inside the 2 km periphery of the PAs, and would
comprise:
(a)   Supporting plantation activities under joint forest management (JFM) in
reserve forests in the immediate vicinity of PAs, beyond levels allowed
within ecodevelopment budget constraints, in order to maintain consistency
with JFM coverage elsewhere in the state
(b)   Developing the voluntary relocation option for people in the PAs in ways
that are consistent with project objectives and GOI and Bank policies (e.g.,
develop participatory operational plans, aid households in the transitional
period, provide investment funds for alternative livelihoods, provide
implementation support services, and support measures fostering cultural
continuity), and
2
(c)   Providing other supplemental investments through a discretionary reserve
for PA managers to allocate to areas with special needs (e.g., special
watershed management priorities in buffer areas, communities that are
especially dependent on forest resources, or village ecodevelopment
investment opportunities with economies of scale).
2
The discretionary reserve would not exceed 18% of the regular village ecodevelopment investments.



14
2.17  Guidelines. It is important that all village ecodevelopment activities follow project
guidelines. Annex 8 provides detailed guidelines on the participatory microplanning
process, including a list of specific eligibility and feasibility considerations. Annex 18
provides an analytical framework to help ensure that vulnerable groups (indigenous
people, women, and other marginalized groups) would be full participants in project
decision-making and benefits. Annex 19 provides guidelines on programs fro people in the
PAs, including voluntary relocation. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
planning and implementation of reciprocal commitments, including associated investments,
would be in accordance with guidelines (including selection process, eligibility criteria,
feasibility considerations, acceptability of investment costs, budget constraint, and
beneficiary contribution requirement) agreed with IDA (consistent with Annexes 8, 18,
and 19). For each PA, SFDs would submit the first three proposals for village
ecodevelopment microplans (which could those developed during the PPF ) for approval
by IDA prior to the implementation of the microplans.
EducationNisitor Management and Impact Monitoring/Research
2.18 Education and Visitor Management. The project would provide local NGOs,
expert advisors, training, workshops, physical facilities, equipment, and materials for:
(a)   Environmental education and awareness to
(i)    Develop an environmental education and awareness strategy with
help from professional educators, communicators, scientists, social
scientists, NGOs and PA staff
(ii)  Improve visitor information and interpretation services
(iii)   Expand education programs for school children
(iv)   Run mass media campaigns
(v)   Develop alternative media
(b)   Visitor managment and ecotourism
(i)    Develop a visitor management and participatory ecotourism
strategy
(ii)  Implement agreed strategy.
2.19  Annex 9 describes the environmental education and visitor management activities
in detail.
2.20 Impact Monitoring and Research. Impact monitoring and research would
improve understanding of issues and solutions relevant to PA management and
interactions between PAs and people. It would involve the extensive use of contracted
institutions and individuals for implementation support, expert advice, and special studies.
It would also involve local people in participatory monitoring, and provide support for
3
Microplans proposed during the PPF could be implementated prior to these three proposals, provided
they meet guidelines outlined in February 1996 Bank mission Aide Memoire.



15
improved facilities and equipment, training, workshops, transport, and materials. These
imports would support:
(a)   Ecological and socioeconomic monitoring to measure status and impacts
and to measure the effectiveness of project institutions and processes
(b)   Ecological research (e.g., human impact within PAs, ways to control
depredation by wildlife, impacts of fires and flood, ecosystem dynamics)
(c)   Socioeconomic research (e.g. long-term impacts of PAs on people,
ethnobiology, indigenous resource management systems, cultural heritage,
participatory processes, tenure requirements), and
(d)   Capacity building and communication programs to facilitate experimental
learning and demonstration, increase compatibility of approaches and
disseminate findings on above.
Annex 10 describes the impact monitoring and research activities in detail.
Project Management Component
2.21   This component would support the management organization and activities, i.e.,
the overhead, required to implement the overall project. Items in this component are not
solely associated with the individual components described above, but instead cover a
range of components. It would include:
(a)   Direct PA level management
(b)   Implementation strategy and guidelines
(c)   Multi-state learning and dissemination
(d)   Implementation review
(e)   National-level policy studies and
(f)    National level administration.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the national level project management
activities would be implemented in accordance with arrangements agreed with IDA.
Annex 11 presents the terms of reference for the national-level technical assistance and the
indicative training program in project management.
Preparation of Future Biodiversity Projects
2.22  Overview. The Ecodevelopment Project would include preparation support
(including experts, studies, and workshops) for relatively large and comprehensive future
projects intended to strategically address India's priority biodiversity concerns. The
Government has developed a list of three project concepts which potentially could meet
this criteria: Second Ecodevelopment, Biodiversity Information, and Genetic and Ex-situ
Conservation.
2.23   Second Ecodevelopment Project. In concept this project would be be a larger
scale, progamatic version of the current project, but also include a component addressing



16
biodiversity conservation in multiple use areas. This preparation of this project would
involve:
(a)   Providing preparation guidance incorporating existing experience
(b)   Preparing detailed proposals for specific project areas of the Second
Ecodevelopment project
(c)    Appraising submitted proposals for the Second Ecodevelopment Project
and
(d)   Building capacity and consensus to lay a foundation for timely
implementation of the Second Ecodevelopment Project.
2.24 Biodiversity Information Project. The concept of this project would be to
organize a demand-driven system for biodiversity information that would:
(a)    Strengthen systems for gathering, organizing, and storing useful information
(b)   Strengthen distributed system for providing access to information and
(c)   Enhance analysis and application of information for decision-making.
2.25   Genetic and Ex-Situ Conservation Project. This project concept would
comprise a nationally-coordinated and user-oriented effort to:
(a)   Expand the stock of ex situ genetic resources, salvaging selected species and
genetic variability that would otherwise be lost if left in situ within protected or
multiple use areas
(b)   Strengthen the capacity to replicate, manipulate, and exchange genetic
resources
(c)   Improve safety, reliability, and efficiency of genetic resources management
(d)   Develop and establish a legal framework for ex situ conservation
(e)   Promote public awareness and education of ex situ genetic resources
conservation
2.26  Annex 12 further describes the projects concepts and preparation activities.



17
Ill. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Cost Estimates
4
3.1    Total project costs are estimated at US $67 million (Rs. 294.9 crore ), inclusive of
duties and taxes in the amount of US $0.9 million (Rs. 3.9 crore). Of this 8 percent or US
$5.3 million are foreign exchange costs. Investment costs amount to 86 percent and
incremental recurrent costs to 14 percent of base costs. The base costs are those obtained
at the time of appraisal, adjusted for inflation to the date of negotiations. Physical
contingencies amount to 9 percent. Price contingencies reflect foreign inflation of 2.0, 2.3,
and four years at 2.5 percent, and local inflation of 8.0, 8.0, 7.5 and three years at 6.0
5
percent for the respective fiscal years of the project.
3.2    The table below gives a summary of project costs by component. Additional
summary tables of project costs are presented in Annex 13.
Project Cost Summary
(Rs. Lakh)                    (USS '000)                        %
%      Total
Foreign   Base
Local   Foreign   Total      Local   Foreign    Total   Exchane Costs
A. Improved PA Managment
Planning Processes                                367.2       1.1    368.3    1,046.1        3.2   1,049.3          -      2
Ecosystem Prtection and Management              3,644.1    490.5  4,134.6   10,382.2   1,397.4  11,779.5           12     19
Amenities for Field Staff                         342.1      38.0    380.1      974.6      108.3   1,082.9         10      2
Subtotal                                           4,353.4    529.6  4,883.0   12,402.9   1,508.9  13,911.7          11     22
B. Village Ecodevelopment
Participatory Micro-Plnning and
Implementation Support                         1,681.7    119.2  1,801.0    4,791.3      339.7   5,131.0          7       8
Investments tolmplement Reciprocal Commitments    7,703.7    405.5  8,109.2   21,948.0   1,155.2  23,103.1         5      37
Special Programs                                 1,868.2     94.4  1,962.6    5,322.5     268.9   5,591.4           5      9
Subtotal                                          11,253.7    619.1  11,872.7   32,061.7   1,763.8  33,825.5          5     55
C. Develop Effective and Extensive Support
for Ecodevelopnent
Conduct Environmental Education and
Awareness Campaigns                              316.9      78.0    394.9      902.9     222.1    1,125.1         20      2
Improve Impact Monitoring
and Research Systems                            1,186.7     72.8   1,259.6    3,380.9    207.5   3,588.5          6       6
Subtobal                                           1,503.6    150.8  1,654.5    4,283.9      429.6   4,713.5          9      8
D. Project Managenmnt                              1,784.8     67.4   1,852.2    5,084.8     192.0   5,276.8          4      9
E. Pepare Futur Blodivemlty Projets                573.1    245.6    818.8    1,632.8       699.8   2,332.6         30      4
F. Reinbursementof PPF                              659.9      42.1    702.0    1,880.0      120.0   2,000.0          6      3
TotalBASELINECOSTS                                20,128.5   1,654.6  21,783.1   57,346.1   4,714.1  62,060.2         8    100
Physical Contingencies                            567.4      57.9    625.3    1,616.5      165.0   1,781.5          9      3
PrkceContingencies                              5,939.6    530.4  6,470.0    2,774.5      383.8   3,158.3-                  -
Total PROJECT COSTS                               26,635.5  2,243.0  28,878.5   61,737.1   5,262.9  67,000.0          8    108
4
A crore, which is the Indian unit commonly used to express large sums of money, equals
Rs. 10,000,000.
5
Local costs have been converted into US$ costs assuming a stable, real exchange rate regime.



18
3.3   Relation of Cost Estimates to Annual Budgets. Cost estimates are indicative
only. They indicate the overall size of the project and amount of required financing but do
not provide an approved blueprint for specific expenditures. In the course of the project,
managers would allocate specific expenditures according to an annual work plan and
budget, which would be subject to a review process to ensure consistency with project
objectives. The updated PA management plans would determine the specific investment
during project years three to five for the protection and management of ecosystems
component. Annual budgets for the village ecodevelopment component would specify
only the location and unit size of the villages selected. Funds would then be allocated for
specific activities as agreed with village groups through participatory microplanning and
feasibility analysis, in conjunction with reciprocal commitments that promote conservation.
Strategies supports during the initial project period would also determine specific project
support for environmental education and monitoring and research activities.
B. Financing Plan
3.4   The financing plan below presents the IDA, GEF, project beneficiaries, GOS, and
GOI contributions for the five-year project period. The IDA Credit of US $28.0 million
6
equivalent would finance 42% of project costs, net of taxes. The GET Grant of US $20.0
million equivalent would finance 30% of project costs. The IDA and GEF financing is
allocated roughly on a pro-rata basis to all components except for the preparation of
future biodiversity projects and the reimbursement of the US$2 million IDA Project
Preparation Facility). GOI and the GOSs would finance US $14.6 million. While this
financing would represent a significant increase in government resources devoted to
biodiversity conservation, it would be only a small share of the total budgets of the
participating state forest departments. Project beneficiaries would contribute US $4.4
million equivalent by contributing primarily labor to the ecodevelopment program.
6
The Global Environment Trust (GET) is the legal entity that provides Global Environmental Facility
(GEF) grants.



19
Components by Financiers
(USS '000)
International
Development                Project       State   Government of
Association   GEF Trust  Beneficiaries Governments   India         Total
Amount      Amount       Amount       Amount    Amount    Amount   %
A. Improved PA Management
PlanningProcesses                                 562.1       562.1            -         9.0         47     1,137.8   1.7
Ecosystem Protection and Management             2,910.2     2,910 2            -     5,709.1     1,409.2   12,938.7  19.3
Arnenitiesfor Field Staff                         491.8       491.8            -           -       245.9    1,229.5   1.8
Subtotal                                          3,964 0     3,964 0            -     5,718 1     1,659 8    15,306.0  22.8
B. Village Ecodevelopment
Participatory Micro-Planning and
Implementabon Support                          1,7018      1,6671             -     2,0504        214.9    5,634.3   8.4
InesbmentstolmplementReciprocalCommitments     10,019.8     7,395.1      4,585.8           -     2,459.1   24,459.8  36.5
Special Programs                                3,019.8     2,260.6            -           -       711.3    5,991.6   8.9
Subtotal                                         14,741 4    11,322 7      4,585 8     2,050.4     3,385.3   36,085.7  53.9
C. Develop Effecive and Extensive Support
for Ecodevelopment
Conduct Enuronmental Education and
Avareness Campaigns                              501 1       501.1            -        985        157.9    1,258 7    1.9
Improve Impact Monitoring
andResearchSystems                             1,8139      1,8139             -       2045        103.2    3,935.5   5.9
Subtotal                                          2,315.0     2,315.0            -       3030        261.2    5,194.2   7.8
D. Project Management                             2,3982      2,398.2            -       9864         50.1    5,832.8   8.7
E. Prepare Future Biodiversity Projects           2,581 4          -             -           -           -    2,581.4   3.9
P. Reimbursementof PPP                            2,000.0          -             -           -           -    2,000.0   3.0
otal Disbursement                               28,000.0    20,000 0       4,585 8     9,057.9     5,356.4   67,000.0  1)0.0
C. Procurement
3.5    Procurement under the project would be undertaken by each state forestry
department, and for centrally managed activities, by the responsible MOEF office. Bulking
or grouping of contracts across states would not be practical because of the widely
dispersed nature of the project sites.
3.6    Civil Works. (US$7.4 million). Works would be procured following National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) or other procedures acceptable to IDA:
(a)    NCB. Civil works in the project consist mainly of the construction of
offices, residential quarters for forest guards, foresters, and range officers
in remote forest areas, a few quarters for forest officers in divisional
headquarters, and repairs of gravel forest tracks. Works to an aggregate
value of US$450,000 would be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of NCB procedures acceptable to IDA. The justification for the NCB
for civil works is that they consist of works in widely scattered interior
locations, during the first three years of the project, and therefore could not
be grouped together into convenient packages that would attact foreign
firms. Nevetheless, bids from foreign contractors would not be precluded.
(b)    Other procedures acceptable to IDA. Small works valued at less than
US$20,000 would be procured by the respective state forest departments in
accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA: (i) under community
participation provisions by direct contracting with village communities or
non-governmental organizations; (ii) by soliciting quotations from at least
three qualified contractors; or (iii) through force account. Materials for
these works valued in aggregate at US $4.0 million would be procured
following national shopping procedures acceptable to IDA. Monitoring of
works would be done using procedures acceptable to IDA.



20
3.7   Vehicles and non-motorized transportation (US $0.8 million).Vehicles for the
project consist of four-wheel drive vehicles, minibuses, and boats. They would be required
in small numbers in widely dispersed areas over the project life of five years in contracts of
less than US $100,000. To meet these requirements, vehicles costing not more than
US$650,000 in the aggregate would be procured through national shopping procedures
acceptable to IDA. Rate contracts of the Directorate General of Supplies and Disposal
(DGS&D), New Delhi, would only be acceptable as a substitute for procurement under
national shopping. Elephants and ponies to be used for anti-poaching, valued at about US
$100,000, would be obtained under direct contracting procedures acceptable to IDA.
3.8   Furniture and Equipment (US $1.9 million). Computers and the associated
software costing more than US$100,000 to an aggregate value of US$346,000 would be
procured using international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. The remaining
information technology, field, office, and laboratory equipment are required by the seven
states and spread over the project life of five years. Individual contracts are not likely to
exceed US $20,000 and hence are not suitable for competitive bidding. They would be
procured up to an aggregate amount of US $0.9 million through national shopping
procedures acceptable to IDA. Rate contracts of the (DGS&D), New Delhi, would only
be acceptable as a substitute for procurement under national shopping. Satellite imagery,
aerial photography and maps up to an aggregate amount of about US$100,000 would be
procured directly from GOI agencies such as the National Remote Sensing Agency or the
Survey of India. Similarly, books and periodicals, proprietary software, extension and
publicity materials, valued at about US$0.5 million would be procured under direct
contracting procedures acceptable to IDA.
3.9   Ecodevelopment Investments (US$30.5 million). Investment expenditures would
finance small works and village development activities in 2,000 widely scattered EDC
locations over the five-year project period. Procedures acceptable to IDA for management
of the investments, including planning, the selection process, eligibility criteria, would be
utilized (Annex 8). Civil works required for these investments would be procured in
accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA: (i) under community participation
provisions by direct contracting with village communities or non-governmental
organizations; (ii) by soliciting quotations from at least three qualified contractors; or (iii)
through force account. Construction materials for these works, aggregating to about US
$13.0 million, would be procured following national shopping procedures acceptable to
IDA. Small equipment and goods required for these investments would be procured
through national shopping procedures acceptable to IDA. Livestock, including breeding
stock, young animals, fertile eggs for hatching, bees, and silk worms, estimated to cost US
$800,000 would be obtained under direct contracting procedures acceptable to IDA.
3.10  Consultancies, Studies, Training (US $12.1 million). Consultancy services
estimated at US $6.0 million with consulting firms (mainly large NGOs) and US $4.2
million with individuals for management support, implementation assistance and special
studies would be contracted on terms and conditions in accordance with IDA guidelines
for the use of consultants ("Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency, August, 1981") Consultancy services in
contracts less than US $20,000 (mainly small NGOs) up to an aggregate of US $1.6
million for participatory planning and implementation assistance with Village
Ecodevelopment would be contracted on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (Annex



21
14). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that GOSs would select NGOs in
accordance with criteria agreed with IDA (Annex 14). Training estimated to cost US $1.1
million, including a service contract for placement and support of trainees would be
procured using governmental/administrative procedures acceptable to IDA. Detailed
training plans are presented in Annexes 7, 8, and 11.
3.11  Project management travel costs (US $0.7 million) that would include
'transportation for project managers, staff and EDC members to supervise project
investments and attend planning workshops that would be financed under the project.
3.12  Incremental recurrent costs (US $9.0), including staff, the purchase of office and
computer supplies, and incremental maintenance costs of vehicles and equipment, would
be financed by the GOS and procured by standard GOS procedures.
3.13 Procurement Review. All ICB and NCB contracts for works and goods
exceeding US$100,000 and the first NCB contract for goods or works in each State
would be subject to prior review by IDA. In respect to consultancies, (i) the model
documents for inviting proposals, (ii) terms of reference for consultant contracts
regardless of value (including NGOs and autonomous government organizations), (iii) all
single source contracts regardless of value (not applicable to contracts for individuals),
(iv) all contracts for assignments of a critical nature (regardless of value), and (v) all
contracts (original or amendments) valued at more than US $100,000 awarded to firms, or
US $50,000 or more awarded to individuals, would be subject to prior review by IDA.
This would result in prior review of about 10 percent of all contracts procured. Contracts
below the threshold levels would be subject to selective post-review by visiting missions.
In addition, a nationally recognized auditing firm would be engaged for a random post-
review of 10% of the Ecodevelopment Support Investments. Reviews of the
Ecodevelopment Support Investments would concentrate on the consistency of the
investments with the selection and eligibility criteria, agreed procurement procedures,
competitiveness of prices paid and physical inspections of the relevant items. Although this
would result in only about 15 percent of project expenditures being subject to prior
review, the nature of the project, with its emphasis on ecodevelopment programs managed
and implemented by villagers and NGOs, is such that a higher level of IDA review would
not have a significant impact on procurement quality.
3.14  Procurement Information. Procurement information will be collected and
recorded as follows:
(a)   Contract award information will be promptly reported by the borrower
(b)   Comprehensive half-yearly reports will be prepared by the borrowers in the
format presented in Annex 16
(c)   Compliance with aggregate limits on the specified methods of procurement
(d)   Preparation of a completion report by the borrower within three months of
the loan closing date
3.15  The project elements, their estimated costs and methods of procurement are
summarized below:



22
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ '000)
Procurement Method
International     Local
Competitive   Competitive               Consulting
Bidding       Bidding       Other       Services     N.B.F.       Total
Civil works                                            440.9      6,990.7            -          -       7,431.5
(176.3)   (2,796.3)                             (2,972.6)
[176.3]   [2,796.3]                             [2,972.6]
Vehicles                                     -             -       750.6             -          -        750.6
(300.2)                               (300.2)
[300.2]                               [300.2]
Furniture & equipment                    329.7             -      1,585.4            -          -       1,915.2
(131.9)                   (634.2)                               (766.1)
[131.9]                   [634.2]                               [766.1]
Ecodevelopment fund                          -             -    30,471.4             -          -     30,471.4
(13,050.7)                            (13,050.7)
[9,632.0]                            [9,632.0]
Consultancies, studies and training          -             -       939.9      11,182.4          -      12,122.3
(469.9)    (5,591.2)                (6,061.1)
[469.9]    [5,591.2]                [6,061.1]
Supervision travel                           -             -       669.9             -          -        669.9
(268.0)                               (268.0)
[268.0]                               [268.01
Recurrent costs                              -             -           -             -    9,057.9      9,057.9
Project preparation                          -             -       258.1       2,323.2          -      2,581.4
(258.1)    (2,323.2)                (2,581.4)
PPF                                          -             -       200.0       1,800.0          -      2,000.0
(200.0)    (1,800.0)                (2,000.0)
Total                                     329.7         440.9    41,865.9      15,305.6    9,057.9     67,000.0
(131.9)       (176.3)  (17,977.4)    (9,714.4)          -   (28,000.0)
[131.9]       [176.3]  [14,100.51    [5,591.2]          -    [20,000.0]
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the International Development Association
Figures in square brackets are the respective amounts financed by the GEF Trust
3.16    Contractual Arrangements. Prior to negotiations, MOEF  and SFDs, following
procedures acceptable to IDA, ,have contracted or are in the process of contracting NGOs
and professionals to implement PPF activities and have a time-bound plan on which they
have begun action to prepare final terms of reference and final design and tender
documents for works and goods to be procured through the first fiscal year of the project.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that: (i) procurement of works, goods,
consultancy services would be in accordance with Bank guidelines; and (ii) standard
procurement documents as already agreed with GOI would be used.
D. Disbursements
3.17    Disbursements under the Credit would be made for:
(a)      40%  of civil works for building and roads
(b)      50%  of foreign expenditures, 50%  of local ex-factory costs or 40%  of
other local costs of equipment, vehicles, non-motorized transport and
materials, except for those financed through the village ecodevelopment
investment program



23
(c)    50% of expenditures on consultants (including NGOs) services, training,
workshops, meetings, publication contracts and contract staff , excluding
the preparation of future biodiversity projects
(d)   50% of local costs of small-scale field equipment and associated running
costs, materials, livestock, and labor financed through the village
ecodevelopment investment program in accordance with procedures
acceptable to IDA
(e)   40% of project management travel, and
(f)    100% of expenditures on consultants (including NGOs) services, training,
workshops, meetings, publication contracts and contract staff for
preparation of future biodiversity projects.
3.18  Disbursements under the Grant would be made for all project components except
the preparation of future biodiversity projects.
(a)   40% of civil works for building and roads
(b)   50% of foreign expenditures, 50% of local ex-factory costs or 40% of
other local costs of equipment, vehicles, non-motorized transport and
materials, except for those financed through the village ecodevelopment
investment program
(c)    50% of expenditures on consultants (including NGOs) services, training,
workshops, meetings, publication contracts, and contract staff
(d)   37% of local costs of small-scale field equipment and associated running
costs, materials, livestock, and labor financed through the village
ecodevelopment investment program in accordance with procedures
acceptable to IDA, and
(e)   40% of project management travel.
3.19 Disbursements against goods and works contracts over US $100,000, and all
consultant contracts that require prior review, including contracts exceeding US $100,000
equivalent for firms and US $50,000 equivalent for individuals, would be fully
documented. Disbursements for all other expenditures would be made against statements
of expenditure (SOEs). Supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained by GOI
and the GOSs and be made available to Association staff during supervision.
3.20 MOEF and FDs have already commenced activities to expedite project start-up,
not all of which are financed under the PPF. To remiburse the Government for such
expenditures, retroactive financing would be applied to all eligible expenditures for project
activities not already eligible for PPF fianancing, incurred after December 31, 1995, up to
a maximum of SDR 1.4 million (US $2 million equivalent) from IDA and SDR 1.4 million
(US$2 millioin equivalent) from GEF. All contracts and items to be financed retroactively
will have been procured in a manner acceptable to the Association. Disbursements are
projected over a period of six GOI fiscal years, from 96/97 through 01/02. The
7
Includes payments for travel and subsistence of government staff to workshops and meetings,
honoraria for external specialists and facilitators, and contracts with NGOs.



24
disbursement schedule is presented in Annex 14. The completion date would be December
31, 2001. The closing date of the Credit would be June 30, 2002.
3.21  To facilitate project implementation and to reduce the volume of withdrawal
applications, a special account in US dollars would be established in the Reserve Bank of
India, with an authorized allocation of US$2 million for IDA and US$2 million for GEF,
which is equal to the estimated four monthly average disbursement. The state forest
departments would submit withdrawal applications directly to the Controller of Aid
Accounts, DEA, sending copies to MOEF. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
GOI and the GOSs would implement a system satisfactory to IDA for channeling funds
required for carrying out the project. Paragraphs 4.8--4.13 provide further guidance on
flow of funds.
E. Accounts and Audit
3.19 The respective MOEF offices and each state government would establish a
separate project account. This account together with supporting documentation, including
contributions from GOI and the Credit, would provide a comprehensive record of project
financing and expenditures. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that this account
and the special account would be subject to normal GOI and GOS accounting procedures
and controls. Project accounts would summarize project expenditures under categories to
be agreed with IDA, showing: (a) actual versus planned expenditures for each quarter; (b)
actual versus planned expenditures accumulated to date; and (c) financing source for the
quarter, and accumulated, by IDA and the GOSs. The summaries, which would provide
information for the SOEs would form part of the project account, including those
expenditures for which reimbursement would be claimed with full documentation. The
project accounts would be supported by a listing with the withdrawal applications
submitted for the period. They would be audited annually in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles. The Controller and Auditor General and his accountants general at the
state levels would be considered acceptable auditors. The consolidated audited project
accounts, including the special account and SOEs, and the auditors' reports, which would
include a separate statement on the SOEs and certified copies of the SOEs, would be
submitted to IDA not later than nine months after the close of the fiscal year. The audit
report on SOEs would specifically comment on their usage and the controls established to
ensure their accuracy. The special account that would be maintained by the Department of
Economic Affairs (DEA) would show all withdrawal requests disbursed, amounts
advanced and reimbursed by IDA, and the balance at the end of each accounting period.
Auditor's reports would reflect the certification of the balance held by the Reserve Bank
of India. The GOSs would prepare a project report on a biannual basis, in a format agreed
with IDA, summarizing project progress in physical terms by project objectives, linked to
financial terms that would be based on the biannual unaudited project accounts.



25
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Staffing and Organizational Structure
4.1   Organizational Responsibilities. Project management would use and build upon
existing forest department, inter-agency, NGO, and community organizational structures,
modifying them where necessary to ensure autonomy, flexibility, and accountability. State
governments, through their PA authorities, would be responsible for field level project
execution. For many project activities, the PA authorities would develop partnerships with
or delegate to NGOs and village groups. PA authorities would also contract tasks to
individual specialists, professional research and training institutions and other groups and
involve existing district coordination committees. At the national level, the project would
need strong coordinating support to provide overall project integration. National NGOs,
professional institutes, and contracted specialists would play major roles. Except for the
project preparation component, it is anticipated that the project would not require foreign
consultancies. Annex 15 further describes the allocation of responsibilities by component.
4.2   Staffing. The staffing plans generally rely on increasing the productivity of existing
staff already based in the PAs. However, in some cases the state governments propose to
redeploy a limited number of departmental staff who currently are based outside the PAs,
and to create new contractual positions. The state forest departments have provided
documentation that the staff plan, including planned internal transfers and the assignment
of project responsibilities to existing staff would not adversely affect the adequacy of
staffing of existing, non-project conservation activities. At the national level, MOEF
would expand existing offices to handle the project work. MOEF would in turn be assisted
by outside consultancies (including NGOs). In order to support sustainability, the project
would not include external financing for any government staff. Annex 15 provides further
information on the staffing plans. Prior to negotiations, the state governments and MOEF
finalized their respective staff plans for the PAs and PTO, and filled positions required for
the implementation of PPF activities. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
state governments and MOEF would:
(a)   Fill all positions required for the project by July 31, 1997
(b)   Ensure that no more than 33% of the senior executive field staff (i.e., all
staff above range officer level) of the project PAs, under normal
circumstances, would be transferred in any one year of the project.
4.3    Consultant Contracting. Because of the importance of specialists and NGO
partnerships to timely project inception prior to negotiations, the SFDs and MOEF:
(a)   Following procedures acceptable to IDA, contracted or were in the process
of contracting NGOs, professional institutions, and private consultants
required for the implementation of PPF activities
(b)   Had a time-bound plan on which they had begun action to prepare final
terms of reference, requests for proposals, short lists, and draft contracts



26
for consultants including NGOs to be contracted through the first fiscal
year of the project, using model documents, and obtain approval by IDA.
4.4   Village-Level Operations. Village institutions for microplanning would be
relatively small and homogeneous villages or hamlets (preferably less than 100
households) in which all households are represented in the decision-making body by both
men and women. They would not necessarily correspond to the panchayat (municipal)
structure, due to their smaller size and differences between administrative and natural
resource management boundaries. Where possible, the ecodevelopment committee would
build on or use existing forest protection committees or other appropriate committees
already existing, provided these committees are composed of all forest-dependent
members of the village/hamlet and include women representatives from each household as
well as men. Initial village ecodevelopment investments can proceed without a formal legal
framework, but for large-scale implementation of the village ecodevelopment program,
states will need to have an appropriate government order consistent with project design.
Annex 8 outlines the minimum requirements for government orders. Prior to negotiations,
each state government drafted a government order on village ecodevelopment and were in
the process of considering suggested improvements. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the state governments would adopt government orders on village
ecodevelopment consistent with project design by September 31, 1998.
4.5   PA Committee Structure. Each PA is making its own arrangements to manage
and coordinate the project activities in accordance with its local conventions. The PAs
would make an explicit effort to expand their composition beyond government employees
and to include representatives from a range of outside specialists and stakeholders
including NGOs.
4.6   National Committees. The Project would have two national- level committees.
(a)   The Ecodevelopment Project Steering Committee, comprised of senior
MOEF and SFD officials and representatives of NGO and other institutions
contracted for national-level support, would
(i)   facilitate Center-State coordination, and
(ii)   provide policy guidance on project activities and work plans, and
(iii)  address conflicts related to application of project guidelines and
compliance with project covenants that have not been otherwise
resolved by SFD or MOEF officials.
(b)   The Ecodevelopment Project Implementation Board (EPIB) would be an
empowered body assigned full financial and administrative powers
necessary:
(i)   for program planning and implementation, and
(ii)  to ensure that the necessary governmental approvals are processed
expediently within the MOEF.
Annex 15 provides further information on committee structure and functions. As a
condition of negotiation, MOEF has established the above committees with terms of



27
reference acceptable to IDA. As a condition of negotiation GOI and GOSs have
obtained all the necessary governmental clearances.
4.7   Training. The project proposal for its various components includes careful
consideration of training needs and many provisions for training of government staff, local
communities and other project participants. The training activities would include:
specially designed short courses, fellowships to existing domestic degree programs, study
tours, on-the-job training by experts, and a very limited number of overseas training
programs. Prior to negotiations, GOI and GOSs prepared detailed training plans organized
according to project objective for the first fiscal year of the project. Assurances were
obtained that GOI and GOSs would ensure that (a) recipients of the fellowships or degree
programs, on completion of their program, would be placed in job positions for a
minimum of three years where they could make full use of their training and (b) that staff
selected for the fellowship or degree programs or for overseas training would have at least
five years to retirement, except under circumstances acceptable to IDA. Text and tables
describing the indicative plans for specific content, recipients, methodology and
institutional arrangements of training are specified in accordance with the relevant project
components in Annexes 7, 8 and 1 1.
B. Flow of Funds and Work Plans
4.8   Overview. The innovative nature of the Ecodevelopment Project would require a
management structure with the authority and competence to channel funds in a timely
manner and to adapt the project work program and future project proposals in response to
performance, lessons learned, and design improvements. The management will therefore
need a high degree of flexibility in appointing staff and consultants, strong professional
expertise, and access to good information on program activities, accomplishments, and
problems.
4.9   Additionality. The sum of annual GOI and external financing that would comprise
this centrally sponsored scheme represents a significant increase of the MOEF total "plan"
(i.e., expenditures other than salaries and maintenance) budget, an increase of about 10%
above 1995/96 levels. The project expenditures in the PAs also represent a significant
increase in total expenditures of the state forest department wildlife wings. Under GOI's
budget system, the entire amount of external aid is added to the normal plan resources (net
budgetary support) to obtain the overall budget allocation for any particular sector. Tables
in Annex 2 present data on FY94/95 - FY96/97 actual and planned expenditures of MOEF
plan budget line items affecting biodiversity, and FY94/95 - FY96/97 actual and planned
expenditures for project PAs and their respective state forest department wildlife wings.
These data provide the baseline information to be used in an exchange of information on
biodiversity expenditures at the national, state, and PA levels in semi-annual progress
reports.
4.10 Work Plans and Budgets. Assurances were obtained that MOEF would:
(a)   submit to IDA for comment a preliminary annual work plan, which would
include updated cost tables, training, contracting plans, and other items as



28
agreed with the Bank by September 30, 1997, and on an annual basis
thereafter,
(b)   furnish to IDA the final annual work plan proposals, taking into account
comments of IDA by January 31, 1998, and on an annual basis thereafter
and
(c)   implement the final annual work plans.
MOEF would adjust the preliminary work plan and determine the final work plan
proposals (which would still be subject to Parliament approval), based on comments from
the Bank, views of the Planning Commission and a review of the April-September semi-
annual progress reports. To avoid delays in the implementation of microplans, the annual
work plans would not include the microplans of individual hamlets, but would include
estimates of the facilitation support and hamlet coverage required for the village
ecodevelopment component.
4.11  Fund Advance Terms. As a centrally sponsored scheme, all funds to the PAs
would flow through MOEF to the state governments. The proceeds of the credit and grant
would be advanced to the seven states participating in the project, under standard
arrangements for developmental assistance for centrally sponsored schemes in India.
Under current policies and regulations of Government of India (GOI), fund advances take
the form of 100% grant.
4.12  Release of Funds. Release of funds to the states, with immediate forwarding to
PAs, would occur three times annually: by May 15, June 30, and August 31. Annex 15
further describes the flow of funds arrangements and includes charts outlining the flow of
funds structure and the schedule of annual planning, budgeting, sanctioning, and fund
flow.
4.13  Requirements for Effective Flow of Funds. Based on the Project Tiger and
externally financed projects, the following arrangements would be essential:
(a)   Timely provision of project resources provided with state counterpart
budget (i.e., staff and recurrent operating expenses)
(b)   Minimal or no lapse in cash flow between one fiscal year and the next
(c)   Delegation of powers permitting PA staff to make payments for certain
types of project investments (especially the village ecodevelopment fund),
based on clear criteria and procedures, and
(d)   Flexibility allowing PA managers to make adjustments between budget
heads in response to project monitoring results.
Standard terms and condition for flow of funds at the national and state levels allow for
the flow of fund arrangements specified in Annex 15. The schedule and conditions
specified in Annex 15 would be considered project performance benchmarks for this
aspect of project administration.



29
4.14  Prior to negotiations, GOI and GOSs demonstrated that they had channels
acceptable to IDA for PPF and project flow (including meeting the requirements described
above) by:
(a)   Documenting that existing channels meet the requirements and have
functioned effectively either for Project Tiger activities or for other
externally financed PA investments, and
(b)   Using the selected channels successfully for PPF activities.
C. Project Performance Review
4.15  Conceptual Approach. The project includes both permanent impact monitoring
and project performance review of limited duration; the later is integral to project
management. Both programs would provide feedback and accountability to assist in
problem-solving and project adjustment. The performance reviews would incorporate
findings from impact monitoring and research component to the extent these are available,
but would mostly have to rely on shorter-term "proxy" measures of project inputs,
outputs, and processes. Process would be measured by the extent to which the project
follows its design specifications. An adaptive management approach would require quick
incorporation of lessons learned from these reviews. The project also includes support for
a special expenditure and procurement review, and an overall independent review.
4.16  Semi-Annual Reports. The PA field directors, directors of the MOEF offices, and
contracted review specialists would be responsible for ensuring that progress reports
efficiently provide the information required for sound and timely management decisions.
Regional and national institutions would provide background data to supplement the
internally-generated information, and would review and comment on the semi-annual
progress reports of project performance and the yearly work plans. The progress reporting
would incorporate findings from the impact monitoring and research component. Annex
16 further explains the project approach to project performance review and presents an
outline of progress report contents. As a condition of negotiation, GOI and GOSs have
(a) prepared a conceptual framework for impact monitoring (Annex 10) and project
performance review (Annex 16) acceptable to IDA, (b) proposed guidelines for project
progress reporting including performance monitoring indicators (Annex 16) and are in the
process of developing the format and (c) developed a list of project performance
benchmarks (Annex 16). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that MOEF would
submit to IDA progress reports, in a format acceptable to IDA, on a semi-annual basis, by
June 30 and December 31, beginning in June 1997, and use performance monitoring
indicators agreed with IDA.
4.17  Supervision. A Bank mission would supervise the project semi-annually. In
addition to the Bank task manager, the mission team would regularly include at least one
biologist and one anthropologist and, occasionally, include additional technical, financial
and institutional experts. In the interest of overall portfolio management efficiency and cross-
fertilization of individual state experiences, the Ecodevelopment Project supervision would also
integrate the supervision of the ecodevelopment components in Tamnil Nadhu and Himachal
Pradesh under the Forest Research Education and Extension Project. Each mission would



30
include field visits to about three project sites plus a national consultation meeting that would
include representatives from the seven project sites plus the two FREEP sites. Project staff
from those sites not receiving a field visit would participate in the field visits to one of the other
sites. Members of the national-level implementation review tearn contracted under the project
would visit each PA at least twice a year and also participate in the supervision missions. This
arrangement would enable each site to receive a Bank supervision about every 18 months, and
project staff from each state to meet with Bank supervision team to review a field situation
every six months. This arrangement would also encourage mutual sharing and cross-
fertilization across states and build domestic capacity for implementation review.
4.18  Mid-Term Review. In the middle of the third year of the project, the project
managers and the PTO, with the assistance of the implementation review specialists,
would prepare a mid-term Review. It would provide the opportunity to officially adjust
project benchmarks and to make other changes in project design if necessary. It would
provide a channel for reporting initial measurements of longer-term project impacts. It
would influence the design of the Second Ecodevelopment Project. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the project managers in the PAs and the PTO would prepare
a mid-term review not later than June 30, 1999 in accordance with guidance agreed by
IDA, and would promptly carry out the recommendations of this review.
4.19  Completion Report. Within six months of project completion, the project
managers and the PTO would prepare a project completion report on the basis of
Government, Bank and GEF guidelines.
4.20 Other Reviews and Evaluation Studies. The project would have independent
reviews to assess project activities. The impact monitoring and research component would
provide the foundation for long-term evaluation, including baseline studies.
Implementation Schedule
4.21   Annex 16 includes the project implementation schedule.



31
V. PROJECT IMPACTS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Benefits and Outputs
5.1   Basic Benefits. The project would conserve globally significant biodiversity in the
seven PAs and develop capacity for increased conservation in the future. The project
would slow, halt, or possibly even reverse declines in the richness, complexity, diversity,
connectivity, and regeneration of ecosystems and species.
5.2   Outputs. The project would increase the capacity of government officials to
manage PAs effectively, addressing not only internal operations but also proposed and
existing periphery and regional activities that impact the PAs. It would increase local
people's support for and role in PA conservation. It would create organizational processes
that could be expanded to other ecologically significant areas. More specifically, it would:
(a)   Broaden the focus of PA management planning, restore ecosystems,
improve fire and poaching control, and improve staff efficiency and
effectiveness
(b)   Enable communities to meet their needs in an environmentally sustainable
manner, reduce unsustainable uses of PA resources, offset negative
econormic and cultural impacts of PAs on local communities, and resolve
conflicts;
(c)   Provide a firmer base of public support for PAs and increase understanding
of PA biodiversity, local people, and their interactions
(d)   Provide the technical review and administrative and financial services
necessary for quality control, accountability, adaptive management,
improvement of the long-term framework, dissemination, integration, and
overall timeliness of project implementation.
(e)   Produce a portfolio of biodiversity project proposals eligible for GEF, IDA,
and other donor consideration.
Annex 21 describes these outputs in greater detail, and also describes the project approach
to measuring benefits, consideration of alternatives, the public sector role, cost recovery,
and fiscal impact.
B. Environmental Impact
5.3   Project Investments. This project would have a highly beneficial environmental
impact. The main goal of the project is to conserve critical biodiversity in seven selected
PAs. Adverse impacts would be minimal because all infrastructure investments would be
small and labor-intensive. To further ensure minimal impact, the preparation team has
reviewed the current operational procedures and guidelines for construction and
maintenance and found that they would provide adequate safeguards. In order to measure
project success, the project monitoring would include close review of the ecological
impact of the project, beginning with carefully designed and reliable baseline studies. .
Biodiversity considerations including ecosystem integrity would also be central in village
ecodevelopment eligibility criteria and in defining associated obligations, as well as in park



32
management investments. The project also includes provision of ecologists who would
review annual work plans and selected site-specific proposals on an ongoing basis
throughout the project period. Annex 17 provides a further summary of the environmental
analysis.
5.4   Regional Impacts. Assurances were obtained that GOI and GlOSs would take
steps acceptable to the Bank to ensure that activities outside the scope of the project
would not undermine effective biodiversity conservation in the PAs or undermine
implementation of the ecodevelopment strategy in and around the PAs. Annex 7 describes
specific criteria and procedures for the compliance of this assurance.
C. Social Impact
Tribal Groups, Women, and Disadvantaged People
5.5   Social Assessment. The project would operate in a setting where the previous
establishment of PAs and changes in forest use have already significantly and negatively
affected the livelihoods of tribal groups living in and around the PAs. The establishment of
PAs has also negatively affected other disadvantaged groups. These groups include
women (who for example, harvest most of the non-timber forest products) and poor and
landless households in the vicinity of the PAs. In this setting, the project would engage in
participatory decisions on behavior changes to benefit conservation and to help offset past
negative impacts of PAs on people (see Annex 8). Findings from the participatory rural
appraisals conducted by teams of state forestry officials and local NGOs identified specific
potential impacts that the project could have on tribals, women and other disadvantaged
groups. Annex 18 presents a comprehensive social assessment of the project.
5.6   Tribal Concerns Integral to Project Design. Consistent with the Bank's
Operational Directive 4.20, tribal development concerns are central to the project. The
project would integrate tribal concerns rather than treating them as a subsidiary tribal
development plan or component. I'he area-specific planning, commitments, and
monitoring would address concerns of legal and usufruct rights and status, traditional
economies, cultural use of natural resources, livelihood strategies, ability to adapt to new
sites and economies, attitudes toward conservation, and social distribution of project
investments and benefits foregone. Annex 19 lists references in the staff appraisal report
(SAR) annexes that further analyze prerequisites and elements specified by Operational
Directive 4.20. Annex 18 includes extensive analysis of potential project impacts on tribal
people and suggests design measures to address special concerns of tribal people.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that GOI and GOSs ensure that project
activities would not erode customary tenure rights over land and other assets of tribals
living in the project areas.
People in the PAs
5.7   Current Situation. All seven PAs have people living within the PA boundaries.
Most live in areas where human settlement is allowed. People living in the PAs have
already experienced losses and without the project they would face very limited and bleak
options. At the same time, population pressures are adversely affecting PA conservation.
To address and ameliorate existing conditions, SFDs and some PA residents have started



33
discussions on the possibility of participatory voluntary relocation. These discussions
indicate a strong demand for relocation from some individuals but the number of potential
participants is not yet clear. (Initial impressions indicate that it would be between 700 and
4,000 people.)
5.8   Relocation Strategy. The project would provide support for a participatory
process to plan and implement "voluntary relocation". Relocation under the project would
be "voluntary" in the sense that it would be driven by the wishes of local people. Planning
would take place in the context of options that would not involve relocation. Relocation
would be to lands on the periphery of the PAs, rather than to distant, non-forest lands.
The forest department would not cause or carry out involuntary relocation in the project
areas. All relocation planning and implementation associated with the project would be
consistent with Bank guidelines, and implementation would require prior Bank approval.
In addition to providing support for voluntary relocation, the project would include special
efforts to identify and provide village ecodevelopment investments (subject to eligibility
criteria outlined in paragraph 2.13 above) for people who do not wish to relocate.
5.9   Assurances. For all activities dealing with people in the project area that take
place immediately prior to and during the project period, assurances were obtained at
appraisal and were reconfirmed at negotiations that the state governments would:
(a)   In pursusing the objectives of the Project, not carry out any involuntary
resettlement for any people resident within the PAs
(b)   Ensure that any proposals for voluntary relocation would be prepared and
implemented in accordance with criteria agreed with IDA and after prior
approval of IDA
(c)   For people who opt to remain in the PAs, prepare an indicative list of
appropriate village ecodevelopment investments acceptable to IDA, which
meets project criteria, and include these people in the village
ecodevelopment program
(d)   Adopt an explicit strategy and plan for sustainable encroachment control
acceptable to IDA before making proposals for programs of voluntary
relocation.
Non-project activities, including those related to resettlement, would be subject to the
regional impacts covenant (see paragraph 5.4).
5.10  Annex 20 provides additional analysis and guidelines on the people in PAs issue
and related project activities, including an outline of criteria and procedures for voluntary
relocation.
D. Sustainability
5.11  By enabling forest departments to share conservation responsibilities with local
communities, the project would improve the PAs' chances of long-term survival.
Successful implementation of project processes and incentives that would ensure this
sharing will therefore be crucial. Sustainability would also depend on the design of
administrative arrangements, and on maintaining the momentum of the ecodevelopment
approach. The use of permanent organizational structures, and the preclusion of external



34
financing for government staff salaries would contribute to sustainability. Efforts to
increase public support for PAs, to provide tangible measures of project benefits and to
explore the potential of trust fund financing and other revenue, would increase prospects
for more adequate long-term financing from a variety of sources.
E. Risks
5.12  Risks. The project has significant risks. The degree of risk varies according to the
extent of innovation in each component. The village ecodevelopment component has the
highest level of risk, both because it uses novel planning processes and because there is
little hard data on the impact of comparable programs. The environmental education
component is the least risky. In spite of the risks, the project should proceed, because of
the importance of conserving biodiversity, the critical role of local people in conservation,
and the potential of this project to provide the foundation for long-term solutions to
India's challenging problems.
5.13  Risk Factors. Significant risk factors include:
(a)   Pressures of population growth, poverty, and commercial interests
(b)   Dangers of unrealistic expectations in the context of high profile attention
(c)   Time and commitment required to achieve participation and trust
(d)   Limitations in implementation capacity (both supply of technical expertise
and experience with process-oriented design)
(e)   Inadequate management support.
5.14  Measures to Address Risk Factors. Although it is not possible to fully address
problems of population growth, poverty, and commercial interests, the project includes
activities, institutional mechanisms, and a legal covenant designed to address regional
issues. To reduce the risk of the project being blamed by association for negative trends
and unmet needs, project objectives clearly emphasize "reduction" not "elimination" of
negative impacts. Project preparation has included extensive efforts to communicate
project objectives, and monitoring assessment criteria would further specify realistic
expectations. To encourage government commitment to participation, the project would
allocate financing according to a continuing review of work plans and progress reports
and avoid a blueprint approach. To allow trust to develop among local communities, the
project would use participatory planning processes. To address limitations in the supply of
technical and management expertise, assessments of capacity during preparation and
appraisal helped determine project scope, and led to a project design involving extensive
use of third party contracts (mostly NGOs). To address inexperience, detailed
documentation is providing guidance on project processes. The detailed specification of
organizational responsibilities, administrative structures, staffing plans, contracting
arrangements and ongoing planning and adjustment processes would help to ensure
adequate management support.
5.15  Annex 21 provides further analysis of project risks.



35
India
Ecodevelopment Project
Estimated Project Costs
(Rs. Lakh)                  (US$ lom%
%     Tobl
Forign   Base
Local  Foreign   Total      Local   Foreign    Total   Exchange Costs
A. Improved PA Management
Planning Processes                             367.2       1 1    368.3    1,046.1      3.2   1,049.3         -      2
Ecosystem Prdection and Management            3,644.1    490.5  4,134.6   10,382.2   13974   11,779.5       12      19
Amenities for Reld Staff                       342.1     38.0    380.1      974.6    1083    10B29          10       2
Subtotal                                        4,353.4    529.6  4,883.0   12,402.9   1,5089   13911.7       11      22
e. Village Ecodevebopnent
Participatory Micro-Planning and
Implementation Support                       1,681.7    119.2  1,801.0   4,791.3    339.7   5,131.0         7       8
Investments to lmplement Recipocal Commitments    7,703 7    405.5  8,1092   21,948.0   1,155 2  23,103.1    5     37
Speciat Programs                              1,8682     94.4  1.962.6   5,322 5      268.9   5,591.4        5       9
Subtotal                                       11,253.7    619.1  11,8727   32,061.7   1,763.8  33825.5        5      55
C. Develop Effective and Extensive Suppout
for Ecodevelopmfent
Conduct Environmental Education and
Awareness Campaigns                           316.9     78.0   394.9       902.9    222.1   1,125.1        20       2
Improve Impact Monitoring
and Research Systems                         1,186.7    72.8  1,259.6   3,380.9    207.5   3,588.5          6      6
Subtotal                                        1,503.6    150.8  1,654.5   4,283.9    429.6   4,713.5         9       8
D. ProjectManagemrent                           1,784.8    67.4  1,852.2   5,084.8    192.0   5,276.8          4       9
E. Prepare Future Blodiversaty Proects           573.1    245.6    818.8    1632.8    699.8   2,332.6         30       4
F. RelbwursenentofPPF                            659.9     42.1    702.0    1,880.0    120.0   2,000,0         6       3
Total BASELINE COSTS                           20,128.5  1,654.6  21,783.1   57,346.1   4,714.1  62,060.2       8    100
Physical Contingencies                         567.4     57.9    625.3    1,616.5    165.0   1,781.5         9       3
Price Cortingencies                           5,996    530.4  6,470.0   2,774.5    383.8   3,158.3            -      -
Total PROJECT COSTS                            26,635 5   2 243 0  28 878.5  61,737.1   5,262.9  67,000.0       8    108
Financing Plan (US$'000)
Intematonal
Development                Project      State   Governmentof
AssociatIon   GEFTrust  Beneficlaries Governments   India        Total
Amount      Amount      Amount       Amount    Amount    Amount   %
A. Improved PA Management
Planning Processes                              562 1       5621                       9.0        4.7    1,137.8   1.7
Ecosystem Proection and Management             2,910.2     2,910.2           -     5,709.1     1,409.2   12,938.7  19.3
Amendies for Field Starf                        491.8       491.8            -          -       245.9    12295    1.8
Subtotal                                         3,964 0     3,964 0           -     5,7181      1,659 8    15,306.0  22.8
B. Vfilage Ecodevelopment
Participatory Micro-Planning and
Implementation Support                        1,701.8     1,667.1           -     2,050.4      214.9    5,634.3   8.4
Investments to Implement Reciprocal Comnitments  10,019.8  7,3951      4,585.8          -      2,459.1   24,459.8  36.5
Special Programs                               30`198      22606             -          -       711,3    5 991.6   8.9
Subtotal                                        14,741.4    11,322.7     4,585.8     2,050 4     3,385.3   36,085.7  53.9
C. Develop Effective and Extensive Support
for Ecodevelopment
Conduct Environmental Educatbn and
Avareness Campaigns                            501.1       501 1            -        985        157.9    1,258.7   1.9
Improve Impact Monitoring
and Research Systems                          1,813.9     1,8139      _             204.5      103.2    3,9355    5.9
fubtotal                                        2,315.0     2,315.0           -       303 0      261.2    5,194.2   7.8
Project Management                             2,398.2    2,398.2           -       986.4        50.1    5,832.8   8.7
Prepare Future Bodiversaty Projects            2,581.4          -           -           -           -    2,581.4   3.9
Reimbursement of PPF                           20000-                       -           -           -    2,000     3.0
if Disbursement                              28,000.0    20,000 0      4,585.8     9,057.9    5,356 4   67,000.0  100.0



36
Amount and Method of Procurement (US$ '000)
Procurement Method
International   Local
Competitive  Competitive             Consulting
Bidding      Bidding      Other     Services     N.B.F.     Tdal
Civigvvorks                              -        440.9    6,990.7                      -     7,431.5
(176.3)   (2,796.3)                        (2,972.6)
[176.3]   [2,796.3]                         [2,972.6]
Vehicles                                 -            -      750.6           -          -       750.6
(300.2)                           (300.2)
[300.2]                           [300.2]
Fumiture & equipment                 329.7            -    1,585.4                      -      1,915.2
(131.9)                (634.2)                            (766.1)
[131.9]                [634.2]                            [766.1]
Ecodevelopment fund                      -            -   30,471.4           -          -    30,471.4
(13,050.7)                        (13,050.7)
[9,632.0]                         [9.632.01
Consuitancies, studies and training      -            -      939.9    11,182.4          -    12,122.3
(469.9)    (5,591.2)             (6,061.1)
[469.9]    [5,591.2]            [6,061.1]
Supervision travel                       -            -      669.9           -          -       669.9
(268.0)                           (268.0)
1268.0]                           [268.01
Recurrent costs                                                  -           -   9,057.9      9,057.9
Project preparation                      -            -      258.1      2,323.2        -      2,581.4
(258.1)    (2,323.2)             (2,581.4)
PPF                                      -            -      200.0      1,800.0        -      2,000.0
(200.0)    (1,800.0)             (2,000.0)
Total                                 329.7        440.9   41,865.9    15,305.6   9,057.9    67,000.0
(131.9)     (176.3)  (17,977.4)    (9,714.4)       -   (28,000.0)
[131.91     [176.3]  [14,100.51    [5,591.2]       -   [20,000.0]
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the International Development Association
Figures in square brakets are the respective amounts financed by the GEF Trust



37
Summary Disbursement Schedule
IDA Disbursement
Category                                                              Amount    Percentage of Expenditure
(S'000)
Civil works for building and roads                                       2,700    40%
Equipment, vehicles, non-motorized transport and materials, except for   1,000    50% of foreign expenditures, 50%h of local ex-factory
those financed through the village ecodevelopment investment program               costs or 40% of other local costs
Small-scale field equipment and associated running costs, materials,    13,000    50% of local costs
livestock, and labor financed through the village ecodevelopment
investment program in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA
Consultants (including NGOs) services, training, workshops, meetings,    4,000     50%
5
publication contracts and contract staff , excluding the preparation of
future biodiversity projects
Project management travel                                                 300     40%
Consultants (including NGOs) services, training, workshops, meetings,   2,000      100%
publication contracts and contract staff for preparation of future
biodiversity projects.
Project Preparation Facility                                            2,000
Unallocated                                                              1,300
GEF Disbursement
Category                                                              Amount    Percentage of Expenditure
(S milblon)
Civil works for building and roads                                      2,700     40%
Equipment, vehicles, non-motorized transport and materials, except for   1,000    50% of foreign expenditures, 50% of local ex-factory
those finaced through the village ecodevelopment investment program               costs or 40% of other local costs
Small-scale field equipment and associated running costs, materials,    9,600     37% of local costs
livestock, and labor financed through the village ecodevelopment
investment program in accordmce with procedures acceptable to IDA
Consultants (including NGOs) services, training, workshops, meetings,    5,700    50%
9
publication contracts and contract staff , excluding the preparation of
future biodiversity projects
Project management travel                                                 300     40%
Unallocated                                                               700
tcludes payments for travel and subsistence of government staff to workshops and meetings,
noraria for external specialists and facilitators, and contracts with NGOs.
hudes payments for travel and subsistence of government staff to workshops and meetings,
oraria for external specialists and facilitators, and contracts with NGOs.



38
Estimated IDA and GEF Disbursements (US$ millions)
FY97   FY99   FY99   FY00   FY01  FY02
Annual IDA          0.6    2.5    5.3    8.1    6.7    4.8
Cumulative IDA      0.6    3.1    8.4   16.5   23.2   28.0
Annual GET          0.0    1.8    4.0    5.2    5.8    3.2
Cumulative GET      0.0    1.8    5.8   11.0   16.8   20.0
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
Time taken to prepare project:  30 months, from 1/92 to 6/94
Prepared by:                     Government of India with assistance from GEF/UNDP
First IDA mission:               October/November 1994
Appraisal mission:               May 1995
Negotiations:                    July 15-19, 1996
Planned date of effectiveness:   December 31, 1996
Relevant PCRs and PPARs:         Not applicable
The long delay between appraisal and negoatiations was due to difficulties in PPF fund flow and
lack of familiarity with Bank consultant contracting procedures.
This report is based on participatory preparation work performed by local people, state and
national government officials, NGOs staff, and researchers. It reflects a project that is Indian in
conceptualization and design, as appraised by a mission comprised of Jessica Mott (Task Manager), Jose
Furtado, Malcolm Jansen, and Ajith Kumar (Environmental Specialists), Gordon Temple (Economist),
V.P.S. Verma (Forester), Gabriel Campbell and Nandita Jain (Social Scientists), and M.S.S. Varadan
(Institutional Specialist). Chona Cruz (Social Scientist) drafted Annex 4. Theodosia Karmiris, Padma
Gopalan, and H. Bhavani provided secretarial support. Jenepher Moseley provided editorial assistance.
The peer reviewers were Narpat Jodha (Social and Economic Issues), Gisu Mohadjer (Project
Management) and Susan Shen (Environment). The GEF external technical reviewers were Thomas
Mathew (WWF-USA) and Amy Vedder (NYZS Wildlife Conservation Society). Shawki Barghouti
(Division Chief, SA2AW) and Heinz Vergin (Director, SA2DR) provided managerial oversight.



Part II: Technical Annexes






Part II: Annexes
1. Biodiversity Conservation Strategy and Legislation in India        39
2. Current Organizational Structure and Capacity                      47
3. Lessons Learned From Other Projects                                59
4. Notes on Project Preparation Process                               63
5. Rationale for GEF Funding and Incremental Costs of Biodiversity
Conservation                                                      75
6. Background on the Seven Protected Areas                            80
7. Improved PA Management                                             101
8. Village Ecodevelopment                                             117
9. Environmental Education and Visitor Management                     143
10. Impact Monitoring and Research on Issues Relevant to PA Management and
Ecodevelopment                                                    151
11. Project Management Component                                      173
12. Preparation of Future Biodiversity Projects                       193
13. Summary Project Cost Tables                                      203
14. Procurement and Disbursement                                     211
15. Project Administration                                           221
16. Project Performance Review and Implementation Schedule           231
17. Environmental Analysis                                           247
18. Social Assessment                                                255
19. Indigenous People: Compliance with Bank Operational Directive 4.20:  279
20. People in the Protected Areas and Voluntary Relocation            281
21. Economic Analysis                                                 291
22. Documents Available in Project File                               299
Maps
(a)   Buxa, West Bengal -- IBRD Map 27842
(b)   Gir, Gujarat -- IBRD Map 27843
(c)   Nagarhole, Karnataka -- IBRD Map 27844
(d)   Palamau, Bihar -- IBRD Map 27845
(e)   Pench, Madhya Pradesh -- IBRD Map 27846
(f)   Periyar, Kerala -- IBRD Map 27847
(g)   Ranthambhore, Rajasthan -- IBRD Map 27848






39                              Annex 1
Annex 1: Biodiversity Conservation Strategy and Legislation
in India
Background
1.    India is uniquely rich in biodiversity due to its diverse physiographic and climatic
conditions in the tropics and its location at the confluence of three major biogeographic
realms, the Indo-Malayan, the Eurasian, and the Afro-Tropical. It is a country of
megadiversity and has 10 biogeographic zones: Trans-Himalayan, Himalayan, Indian
Desert, Semi-arid, Western Ghats, Deccan Peninsula, Gangetic Plains, Northeast India,
Islands, and Coasts. The main strategy for conserving species has been through the
protection of viable representative habitats and ecosystems.
2.    Biodiversity conservation has an old history in India, being enshrined in the ancient
religions (Animism, Hinduism, Jainism, Buddhism) and diverse cultures of the
subcontinent and in the mythology and traditional customs of indigenous peoples (such as
the "tree of life" in the Ramayana). In recent history the first codified legislation was the
Wild Birds Protection Act in 1887. It was followed by the Wildlife Birds and Animals Act
in 1912 (amended in 1935) and the Wildlife Protection Act 1927. After independence the
most significant enabling legislation on biodiversity conservation in India was the 42nd
amendment to the Indian Constitution, passed in 1976, making protection and
improvement of environment and safeguarding forests and wildlife one of the directive
principles of state policy. This legislation also brought wildlife and forest protection from
the state list into the concurrent list, enabling both the central and state governments to
pass protective legislation, that of the former superseding the latter.
3.    The most comprehensive act on biodiversity conservation since Independence was
the Wildlife (Protection) Act passed in 1972, affording varying degrees of protection to a
whole range of animal species under different schedules and enabling the setting up of
national parks and wildlife sanctuaries. This Act has been amended subsequently: in 1982
to allow capture and translocation, in 1986 to prevent trade in wild animals and animal
products, and in 1991 to afford protection to scheduled plants and to stop commercial
felling in wildlife sanctuaries. Other important legislation includes the Environment
(Protection) Act of 1986 to prevent, control, and mitigate environmental pollution and to
provide for coastal regulation zones, and the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution)
Act of 1987. Another landmark in biodiversity conservation was the ratification of the
Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) in 1976.
4.    Apart from legislation, a number of policy statements have also guided
conservation efforts. The National Conservation Strategy (1992) and the Environment
Action Plan (1993) give priority to conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity. The
conservation legislation, policies, and action plans are reflected in other related policy
statements: The Policy on Abatement of Pollution (1992), the National Housing Policy
(1988), the National Water Policy (1988), and the National Landuse Policy (1988).
5.    A draft bill for a "Conservation of Forests and Other Ecosystems Act" is currently
being debated. This bill is expected to curtail commercial felling in forest areas. There are



40                              Annex 1
different interpretations of how the act would affect people's participation in management
and conservation of biodiversity. Some believe it would enhance official acknowledgment
of people's participation; others believe it would restrict local rights and increase
government control. A draft status report on biodiversity has been formulated through
nation-wide expert contributions; and a framework has been developed for a biodiversity
action plan. A biodiversity conservation act is also being drafted in the light of the
Biodiversity Convention.
Laws Governing Biodiversity Conservation
6.    There are more than 40 central government acts pertaining to various aspects of
biodiversity conservation. A much larger volume of state legislation pertaining to
biodiversity conservation is beyond the scope of this review. The Wildlife (Protection) Act
of 1972 supersedes all state legislation and the Indian Forest Act of 1927. It was amended
in 1982, 1986, and 1991 and is a unified national act that enables the constitution and
management of such areas as national parks, sanctuaries, game reserves, and closed areas;
it specifies the procedures for establishing protected areas, the management parameters for
them, and the procedures for allowing or disallowing diverse uses within them. The act
also lists the powers and functions of various officials. Under this act:
(a)   National parks are given a higher level of protection, with no grazing and
no private land holding or right permitted within them.
(b)   Sanctuaries are given a lesser level of protection, and certain activities may
be permitted within them for the better protection of wildlife or for any
other good and sufficient reason.
Human Interactions with Protected Areas
7.    Human interaction with wilderness areas is fundamental to human civilization, as
long as it does not disrupt ecological processes and the carrying capacity of ecosystems
within such areas. More than 50 percent of the protected areas have human populations
within and around them living under rights and leases that for the most part have not been
recorded. The Wildlife (Protection) Act provides for denotification of sanctuaries to allow
for certain human uses..
Protective Legal Coverage Of Biodiversity Conservation
8.    The range of species and varieties given legal protection under biodiversity
conservation is somewhat patchy, and domesticated varieties receive less coverage than
natural biodiversity (Table 1). The institutional structures for conserving biodiversity are
equally patchy. The legal and institutional coverage includes the following considerations
that are relevant to the Ecodevelopment Project:
(a)   Identification: The Botanical Survey of India (BSI), the Zoological Survey
of India (ZSI), state forest departments, universities, and several
independent institutions are actively engaged in the identification and
authentication of species and ecosystem types.



41                               Annex 1
(b)   In-situ Protection: Species protection in situ is provided for in the Wild
Life (Protection) Act, and its 1991 amendments. Habitat (and ecosystem)
protection is directly provided for in the Indian Forest Act, 1927, the Wild
Life (Protection) Act of 1972, the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980, the
Territorial Waters, Continental Shelf, Exclusive Economic Zone and Other
Maritime Zones Act, 1976 and the Environment (Protection) Act of 1986.
(c)   Ex-situ Protection: For rare, endangered and domesticated species living
outside natural habitats, in gardens, zoos, aquaria, and gene banks,
protection and perpetuation of biodiversity is especially important. The
Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972, provides for the protection of some
animal species in captivity. There is no legal provision for the ex situ
protection of plant species.
(d)   Access and Extraction: Access to biodiversity and its extraction from
natural habitats enables it to be used for economic purposes and affects the
status of the habitat and ecosystem type. There are no central government
acts governing the access and property rights to animals and plants in their
natural habitats, except by through ownership of individual, communal or
government property. The Indian Forest Act, 1927, governs the extraction
of wild flora and fauna and the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972, of
terrestrial biodiversity.
(e)    Use: The Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972 and its amendment of 1991, and
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, regulate the use of some
animals and plants.
(f)    Trade: The barter, sale, import, export, or exchange of any species or its
derivatives affects the status of that species and its habitat. The Wild Life
(Protection) Act, 1972, the Destructive Insects and Pests Act, 1914, the
Import and Export (Control) Act, 1947, The Customs Act, 1962, and the
Marine Products Export Development Authority Act, 1972, govern the
trade of selected wild animals and plants and their products.
(g)   Breeding, Cultivation and Multiplication: The breeding systems of species
determine the extent of their genetic variability and the dynamics of habitats
and ecosystems they utilize. Artificial or induced breeding techniques are
important for propagating captive populations. The Wild Life (Protection)
Act, 1972 and its 1991 amendments, govern the captive breeding of some
wild plants and animals.
(h)   Introduction, Augmentation and Reintroduction: There are no central
government acts on the introduction, augmentation, or reintroduction of
wild or domesticated animals or plants, except for specific legislation on
economic plant products, on some domesticated animals, and on the
accidental introduction of pests.
(i)    Release: There are no central government acts governing the accidental
release of wild or domesticated plants or animals.



42                              Annex 1
(j)    Movement: The movement of specific wild or domesticated plants and
animals is governed by central government acts controlling its trade.
(k)   Intellectual Property Rights: The are no central government acts
governing the intellectual property rights of wild or domesticated plants
and animals.
9.    India has ratified a number of international treaties pertaining to the conservation
of biodiversity.
10.   Coverage of protected areas is low in the Trans-Himalayan, North East Indian ,and
Gangetic Plain biogeographic zones (Table 2) where endemism is high and conservation is
critical.
11.   Among ecosystem types, forests (Table 3) appear better covered by conservation
measures than wetlands, coral reefs, or grasslands. Thus, this larger area of representative,
unique and fragile ecosystems, needs protection that is not only guaranteed but also
strengthened in relation to existing measures for conservation of biodiversity.
Status of Protected Areas
12.   PAs are under intense pressures from human populations living within them (>55
percent of PAs) and around them (<80 percent); from traditional rights and leases 40
percent), from traditional grazing by livestock (>40 percent ), fodder extraction (>15
percent), timber extraction (>16 percent), and non-timber forest product (NTFP)
extraction (>35 percent). In addition, a significant number of PAs are used by other
government agencies (>55 percent ), for public thoroughfares (>45 percent), and for
plantations (>45 percent). Protected areas also experience illegal occupation and use (>8
percent), encroachment (>7 percent), and poaching (>55 percent). In terms of PA
management, some have plans (>30 percent) with zoning (>20 percent; some have
populations that need relocation (>5 percent); some have research and monitoring usually
by external persons (>23 percent); some have exotic species introductions (>15 percent);
and some captive breeding programs (15 percent). In terms of land use and environmental
effects, some PAs are affected by forest fires (>20 percent), floods (>35 percent),
droughts (50 percent), and/or water pollution (>40 percent). Some have trained personnel
(>35 percent) and honorary wardens (>35 percent); but their association with NGOs
appears weak (> 15 percent).
13.   India is party to several international conventions on biodiversity, so the protected
areas system is expected to conserve biodiversity not just for India but for the Earth as a
whole. That being so, this system clearly needs strengthening in a variety of ways
Future Directions
14.   The Ministry of Environment and Forests (MOEF), the Ministry of Agriculture,
and the Ministry of Rural Development have joint responsibility for conserving wildlife
and biodiversity, and the first ministry has lead responsibility. The policy for biodiversity
conservation has been enunciated clearly in the National Conservation Strategy and Policy
Statement on Environment and Development (MOEF 1992), MOEF appears better
organized for wildlife conservation than for biodiversity conservation. The apparent



43                               Annex 1
reasons appear to be the broader scope of biodiversity conservation; the joint central and
state government responsibility for implementing biodiversity conservation in comparison
to the state responsibility for wildlife conservation, and the lack of a clearly defined
institutional network for implementing biodiversity conservation. As a consequence, the
wildlife institutions are implementing much of the terrestrial biodiversity conservation,
even though they have been poorly trained for this additional responsibility. Central and
state government strategies need to be developed for understanding, protecting, and using
biodiversity on a sustainable and equitable basis, especially to support India role as a party
to several international conventions on biodiversity.
15.   By definition, the current types of protected areas permitted in the Wildlife Act of
1972---national parks and wildlife sanctuaries---restrict opportunities for local people to
derive benefits from PAs, and so present them with little incentive to participate in
conservation. India could benefit from an expanded protective network covering other
types of legally acceptable PAs. These might include protected landscapes, multiple
resource areas, etc., where mutually beneficial human-wildlife interactions can be
accommodated and promoted and multiple, site-specific objectives incorporated into
management plans. Several national NGOs are now advocating the concept of community
PA management, but this idea is controversial within govermment and some conservation
NGO circles.
16.   The M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation, an environmental non-governmental
organization, has set out a list of policy actions and priority goals for biodiversity that
central and state governments need to consider:
(a)    Save prime habitats and endangered species
(b)   Conserve the entire range of species
(c)    Meet the minimum needs of the people in an ecologically sustainable way
(d)   Enhance conservation practices through education and awareness
(e)   Facilitate community activity for biodiversity conservation
(f)    Assess the implications of intemational conventions and agreements on
national sovereignty for saving and sharing biodiversity
(g)   Develop and strengthen effective enabling legislation for biodiversity
conservation
(h)   Strengthen and integrate administrative mechanisms at the community,
state, and national levels
(i)    Ensure that the biodiversity conservation movement is adequately
supported at central and state levels with financial, technical, and
institutional resources.
17.   As a sequel to Agenda 21, the Ministry of Environment and Forests is developing
the framework for a biodiversity action plan.
18.   Biodiversity conservation is under human pressure from the increasing scarcity of
land due to population growth. In addition, India's biodiversity is under severe threat from



44                                  Annex 1
industry, especially subsidized forest-based industries . Already industrial interests are
trying to denotify established sanctuaries. Addressing the nine-point action plan of the
Swaminathan Foundation is an imperative. The Bank's ecodevelopment project for
protected areas, which provides for village ecodevelopment incentives while strengthening
PA management, is a step in the right direction towards building the kinds of alliances
both locally and nationally for biodiversity conservation.
Table 1: Legal Coverage Of Biodiversity Conservation In India
Biodiversity:                     Wild                 Domestic              Genetic
Coverage:                                                                   Materials 
Fauna       Flora      Fauna  | Flora
Identification               N           N          N           N               N
Protection in-situ y                                            N
Prote     c      tion ex-situ         r   N _  N     co _ere
Use                           _\ _N                                     
ITrade                       1 _                     P     IPI
Breeding , cultivation,      g    e . 1. La P 
multiplication D   d
lIntroduction,                P3          P          P3          P3              P
l augmentation 
reintroduction ....  
Release                      N           N          N           N               r  
Movement                                 p     =           i       _   
lIntellectual                 N          N           N           N               N  
lPropertyl
Rights
Note: C = Well covered; P =Partially covered; N = Not covered
Source: Kothari, Ashish, and Singh, Shekhar. 1992. Legal Provisions Relating to Biodiversity in
India. 44 pp. New Delhi: Indian Institute of Public Administration



45                                    Annex 1
Table 2: Bio geographic Distribution Of Protected Areas In India
Biogeographic Zone          Area Of India         National Park              Protected Area
(%)           No.           %             No.            %
Trans-Himalayan                  3.1             1           <1.0           2            <1.0
Himalayan                        7.8            10           2.5            56            5.0
Deserts                          6.8             0           0.0            5             4.0
Semi-Arid                        15.5            5           0.2            53            2.3
Western Ghats                    4.8             7            1.3           44            9.9
Deccan                           43.2           17           0.5           115            3.4
Gangetic Plain                   10.9            3           0.3            25            1.3
Northeast India                  5.2             4           0.6            17            1.1
Islands                          0.3             6           4.7           100            8.3
Coasts                           2.4             2            ?             17 
Source: IIPA. 1994. Conservation of Wild Biodiversity in India. A Status Report. 347 pp. New Delhi:
Indian Institute of Public Administration
Table 3: Conservation Measures For Forests In India
Measures: Threats                Legal        Preventive         Other          Institutional
(Control       SClemCS        Regulations      Stl-uctu res
Clearfelling            r    N 
Conversion To Non-Forest                          n . A            p.  3
Shifnin Intin utoP  Asion         np
Selective Felling             . p            _         _N                          l     
Conversion To Monoculture   _    P..              N                N               l     
Flooding by Dams                                  N_l     l    
Mining                             _>~l     
Other Disturbance                  pNp                                     :        I     
Grazing                        .   '.        :     _                      l)   !.  
Fuelwood CollectionC                               p                       . pll   
Exotic Species Intr-oductions  .                                        . .....    l    1  lg
Fires                        .     p     :                         p                        1
Pollution            .                                             P..:P.  .  
Nlote:  G =Good, P =Partial, N=None.
Source: IIPA. 1994. Conservation of Wild Biodiversity in India. A Status Report. 347 pp. New Delhi:
Indian Institute of Public Administration



46                                  Annex 1
International Treaties on Biodiversity Conservation
1933   Convention Relative to the Preservation of Fauna and Flora in their Natural State. Adopted 08
November 1933, London. (India ratified on 09 August 1939)
1946  International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling. Adopted 02 December 1946,
Washington. (India ratified on 02 December 1981)
1951   International Plant Protection Convention. Adopted 06 December 1951, Rome. (India ratified on
09 June 1952)
1954  International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution of the Sea by Oil. Adopted 12 May
1954, London. (India ratified 23 May 1962)
1956   Plant Protection Agreement for South East Asia and Pacific Region. Adopted 27 February 1956,
Rome. (India ratified on 02 July 1956)
1959   The Antarctic Treaty. Adopted 01 December 1959, Washington. (India ratified on 19 August
1983)
1963   Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and Under Water.
Adopted 05 August 1963, Moscow. (India ratified on 10 October 1963)
1971   Convention on Wetlands of International Importance especially as Waterfowl Habitat. Adopted
02 February 1971, Ramsar. (India ratified on 01 February 1982)
1972   Convention Concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and natural Heritage. Adopted 23
November 1972, Paris. (India ratified on 14 February 1978)
1973   Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora. Adopted 03
March 1973. (India ratified on 18 October 1976)
1979   Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals. Adopted 23 June 1979,
Bonn. (India ratified on 01 November 1983)
1980   Convention on the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources. Adopted on 20 May
1980. (India ratified on 17 July 1985)
1982   Protocol to Amend the Convention on Wetlands of International Importance especially as
Waterfowl Habitat. Adopted 03 December 1982, Paris. (India ratified on 09 March 1984)
1982   United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. Adopted on 10 December 1982, Montego Bay.
(India ratified on 10 December 1982)
1983  International Tropical Timber Agreement. Adopted on 18 November 1983, Geneva. (India
ratified on 01 April 1985)
1989   Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their
Disposal. Adopted on 22 March 1989, Basel. (India ratified on 15 March 1989)
1993   Convention on Biological Diversity. Adopted on December 29, 1993. (India ratified on February
18, 1994)
Source: IIPA. 1993. Biodiversity Conservation in India. 86 pp. New Delhi: Indian Institute of Public
Admninistration



47                              Annex 2
Annex 2: Current Organizational Structure and Capacity
General Management, Staffing, and Financial Support
1.    The seven PAs have similar institutional arrangements for PA management, with a
conservator-level person in charge of the park. In some cases, like Kerala, this official's
major responsibility is the park, with other, smaller PAs also under his or her domain. In
cases like Karnataka, the conservator level-official's responsibility is much wider. In such
cases the next-level official, namely the deputy conservator of forests or the DFO, is in full
charge of the project PA. In all cases these officials are assisted by range officers, foresters
and forest guards
2.    In combination the seven PAs have a total of about 1800 field executive staff,
ranging from a low of 81 staff in Pench to a high of 458 in Gir. Annex 15, Table I
specifies the existing staffing levels for each PA. The PAs combined FY95/96 budgets
totaled US$4.2 million, ranging from a low of US$250,000 in Pench to US$1,320,000 in
Buxa. The "non-plan" budget for the project PAs, which is mainly for base wages,
generally represents about one half of total PA expenditures. These budgets represent a
significant portion of the total state budget for wildlife activities, reflecting the priority that
the states attach to the project PAs. Table 1 of this Annex presents the specific budgets
and financing for each PA. External project financing from IDA and GEF would be in
addition to existing levels of financial support for the project PAs and state wildlife
programs, which would be maintained during the project period. During the project
period, budgets for the MOEF ecodevelopment program in project PAs would be used to
cover a portion of the GOI counterpart budget requirements.
3.    The Project Tiger scheme, first introduced in 1973, has enhanced support for
management activities in the five PAs that are tiger reserves. In addition to centrally
sponsored financial assistance for PA management activities in these PAs, Project Tiger
provides: (a) 100 percent of central assistance for selected new staff including research
and veterinary staff (although the lack of career prospects have prevented tiger reserves
from attracting research staff); (b) 100 percemt of central assistance for special wage
supplements to staff at all levels; (c) 50 percent of central assistance for subsidizing crop
insurance premia of damage to property and life within 5 km of the tiger reserve
boundaries; and (d) 100 percent of assistance for grants for permanent disability of staff.
4.    Currently, the capacity of the Project Tiger Office is barely adequate to carry out
the Project Tiger program. The Project Tiger Office (PTO) is headed by a director,
supported by a deputy director, who are both seconded to the states for a four to five year
period. There are seven additional clerical staff, plus two peons. Although small in size the
PTO has enormous responsibilities for coordinating and supporting programs in India's 21
tiger reserves. PTO's responsibilities include the management of a centrally sponsored
scheme for supporting the development and maintenance of activities in the tiger reserves,
for providing secretariat support to a high-level Project Tiger Steering Committee, for
supporting MOEF ecodevelopment programs around the tiger reserves, for organizing
national and international meetings on tiger conservation, for supporting and coordinating
research, training, and census activities in the tiger reserves, for liaising with international
and national donor agencies and governments, and for responding to public and



- 48                              Annex 2
parliamentary queries about tiger conservation in India. The PTO has no prior experience
with the Bank's financial, procurement, and reporting procedures. Table 2 shows the
administrative budget of the Project Tiger Office.
Existing PA Management Programs
5.    Although management plans exist for all seven project PAs and cover an
implementation period of 5 to 10 years, most of these plans have expired or will need
updating in the next few years. The status of the plans by PA is:
(a)   Buxa         1993/94 to 1996/97
(b)   Gir          1976/77 to 1990/91
(c)   Nagarhole   1989 to 1994
(d)   Palamau      1987 to 1997
(e)   Pench        1990/91 to 1994/95
(f)   Periyar      1986/87 to 1995/96
(g)   Ranthambhore 1973/74 to 1983/84
6.    These plans are also not as comprehensive as they ought to be, and in particular
they do not take full cognizance of the linkages between PAs and local people who depend
on the resources contained within them. In addition, PA plans are not adequately
integrated into the broader ecological, socioeconomic, and regional sphere. PAs have
largely been managed as islands set aside from development.
7.    The project PAs are some of the more important PAs in the country and have
received more management and financial inputs than most others. However, there is still
considerable room for improvement.
8.    All of the PAs include legally designated sanctuaries and/or parks. Several also
include forest reserve areas that are managed as buffers. Four of the PAs are in the
process of upgrading sanctuaries to parks, a process that involves identifying and settling
the rights to meet the required prerequisite to final legal notification. Even those PAs that
have received final notification (Gir, Nagarhole, and Ranthambhore) face situations of
continued resource use and the possibility of legal challenges. All of the sites face the
limitations inherent in the Wildlife Act of 1972 which does not make legal provision for
multiple use areas within national parks.
9.    PAs have been managed as islands from surrounding areas. Forests in the PA
surroundings are under the jurisdiction of the territorial wings of the state forest
departments, which manage the areas for timber, bamboo and other NTFPs and generally
neglect the areas' supportive role in PA conservation. Coordination between PA
authorities and agencies working in vicinity of the PA are virtually non-existent. Often,
outside agencies implement activities that are detrimental to wildlife, for example., the
elimination of wildlife corridors that adjoin the PAs.
10.   Current PA management activities depend on availability of funds. They comprise:
(a) construction of water harvesting structures such as water holes, check dams, and other
small structures mainly for improving dry season availability of water for wildlife; (b)
limited programs for removal of noxious weeds and enrichment planting of these areas
with fodder and tree species; (c) construction of electric fencing and trenches to keep



49                             Annex 2
animals from straying into surrounding villages, and to keep domestic animals from
entering the PAs; (d) quarters for staff, and (e) maintenance of firelines, boundary surveys,
and sign posting.
Existing Experience with Village Ecodevelopment and PA/Village Linkages
11.   There are a number of existing ecodevelopment programs. Small-scale
ecodevelopment programs include a centrally-sponsored MOEF scheme (with
expenditures of about US$1 million between FY93/94 and FY95/96; other schemes by
NGOs (for which specific estimates of total annual expenditures are not available, but are
only a small fraction of the MOEF scheme); preparation and training assistance
administered by the Wildlife Institute of India with funding from the United Nations
Development Program (US$1.3 million spread over several years); and the Forest
Research Education and Extension Project support for ecodevelopment programs in the
Great Himalayan Nation Park in Himachyl Pradesh and the Kalakad Mundanthurai Tiger
Reserve in Tamil Nadu (US$3.3 million spread over five years). All are rather limited in
scope and restricted to certain pockets. Evidence to date shows that the government
initiatives are generally employing traditional top-down approaches to project planning
and implementation, even when program documentation has embraced the principal of a
more participatory approach. The relation to reciprocal commitments and linkage to
conservation objectives has generally been implicit rather than explicit.
12.   Existing efforts confirm the need to develop stronger linkages between the
protected area and the local communities in order to implement effective ecodevelopment
programs. Currently some forest departments, such as Gujarat, already have used NGOs
to cultivate linkages with local communities, and other state forest departments are
planning to expand their use of NGOs. However at the moment this use of NGOs is not
generally structured and relies on informal arrangements rather than formal contracts.
13.   Experienced and professional NGOs already operate in at least four of the sites
including Nagarhole (MYRADA & BAIF), Periyar (Peermade), Gir (AKRSP & BAIF)
and Ranthambhore (WWF/India, Ranthambhore Foundation, & CEE). MYRADA and
AKRSP are nationally recognized leaders in participatory rural development and in the use
of PRA methodologies. WWF/India is the leading conservation organization operating
throughout India; and BAIF is nationally recognized for its expertise in agroforestry,
horticulture, and land use. In addition there are local NGOs at these sites and Palamau,
with varying degrees of experience, competence, and interest. SPWD, IBRAD, and Action
Aid have played a national role in developing microplanning expertise for JFM, IIPA has
served as the national coordinator for the project preparation, and SPWD has served as an
advisor to project design.
14.   At the village level informal links with youth clubs, mahila sanghs (women's
associations) etc. form a part of the institutional arrangements for most ecodevelopment
efforts. In many cases, larger NGOs have encouraged these groups as part of overall
development efforts, without a specific focus on ecodevelopment. Forest departments
have begun to establish contact with these groups as part of the process of preparation for
this project.



50                               Annex 2
15.   The extent to which forest department officials already have experience relevant to
the village ecodevelopment varies from state to state. For example, in West Bengal, the
success of the JFM activities has spurred many officers to start involving the communities.
Monitoring and Research
16.   Monitoring. Annual census surveys have been a part of the management of many
PAs in India, especially tiger reserves, for many years. Such surveys have almost entirely
focused on large mammals (herbivores and carnivores), and have used many methods such
as total count, block count, transect sampling, and pug marks. Such monitoring has been
the subject of several criticisms:
(a)   No coverage of the status of the habitat (which is relatively easy to
quantify)
(b)   The full range of biodiversity has not been covered; e.g. ecosystems,
smaller mammals, lower vertebrates, invertebrates, and plants
(c)   Methods such as total count and block count have no statistical base, hence
have low interpretability while making spatial and temporal comparisons
(d)   Statistically robust methods such as transect sampling often require large
samples that are beyond the resources and expertise available to
management
(e)    Tiger pug mark identification is highly arbitrary and requires a very high
level of subjectivity and expertise
(f)    Since the habitat conditions, disturbance factors, and management activities
have not been monitored, the results of monitoring of large mammals have
to be viewed in isolation
(g)   The increase in the large mammal population apparent from the annual
census is in contradiction with the general degradation of habitat evident in
many PAs
(h)   The absence of participation from others such as local people, NGOs,
scientists etc., although in recent years this has not been the case in some
PAs.
17.   The major drawback of these annual surveys is that there has been no conceptual
framework consisting of (a) clearly stated objectives for monitoring; (b) criteria for
evaluating the observed trends; (c) statistical model for the survey; (d) attributes of the
disturbance and PA management activities; and (e) mechanisms for feedback to PA
management.
18.   Research. In the past three decades a fair number of ecological studies and status
surveys have addressed conservation issues in protected and unprotected forested areas in
India. These studies have been conducted by a few institutions in India such as Wildlife
Institute of India (Dehra Dun), Centre for Ecological Sciences (Bangalore), Kerala Forest
Research Institute (Trissur), Bombay Natural History Society (Bombay), and recently the
Salim Al Centre for Ornithology and Natural History (Coimbatore). The issues addressed
mostly relate to single species, often endangered large mammals and birds (e.g., elephant,



51                               Annex 2
Asiatic wild ass, wild buffalo, Himalayan ibex, Asian lion, snow leopard, lion-tailed macaque,
Phayre's leaf monkey, lesser florican, etc). These studies have also mostly concentrated on
certain biogeographic zones in India, for example, western Ghats, north-west India, and
western Himalayas. Organisations such as some universities, Botanical Survey of India, and
Zoological Survey of India have carried out extensive inventories of flora and fauna. The above
studies have provided considerable insights into the ecology of individual species and their
conservation requirements, and provided some information on the distribution of flora and
fauna. Socioeconomic research has been scantier and has addressed issues such as local
resource needs and dependency on PAs, ethnobotany, local traditions and culture, and so forth.
These studies have been carried out by many organisations such as SPWD, WIl, TISS,
Institute of Economic Growth, and so forth.
19.    Some management decisions and actions (mostly redefinition of existing PA
boundaries, creation of new PAs, and stringent policing) have flowed from such studies;
by and large, however, there has been no major improvement in the understanding of
issues relevant to PA management. As a result, research as it is now practiced, although of
considerable academic interest, is often viewed as only of marginal relevance to PA
management.
20.   There are several reasons for this state of affairs:
(a)   Research on biological, ecological, and socioeconomic issues has often
followed interests or perceptions of individuals and organizations, in
isolation from PA management and other interest groups or stake holders.
As a result, ecological and socioeconomic studies have often failed to
address information needs critical to PA management, even though such
needs have sometimes been articulated by the PA management and other
interest groups. It is also true that mechanisms for consultations to identify
information needs of PAs have not existed. For example, preparation of
management plans does not provide an opportunity for researchers to
contribute to them.
(b)   The fair body of information on biological, ecological and socioeconomic
issues relevant to PA management that have been generated over the last
many years has remained in the custody of numerous government and non-
governmental organizations and individuals. Much of this information has
not been verified for quality, is not published in a form accessible to PA
management, and has not been synthesized so as to meet the information
needs of PA management to the greatest extent possible.
(c)    The lack of adequately trained personnel and well staffed and equipped
institutions has been a major constraint in generating information that is
relevant to PA management. In such a large country as India, with a very
rich biodiversity, more than 500 PAs and large terrestrial and aquatic
habitats outside the PAs, the institutions and individuals with adequate
expertise and infrastructure for research have been very limited. Only a few
national institutions have been actively engaged in ecological and biological
research. Capacity to address socioeconomic research related to PA
management has been even more of a constraint. There has been no serious



52                              Annex 2
effort to develop research interest and capabilities among institutions (such
as universities and NGOs) around or near the PAs that could meet the
information needs of the PA management on a sustained basis. National
institutes have been overburdened and, moreover, have had to shift their
focus topically and geographically in order to meet their mandate at a
national level.
(d)   Some PAs, especially riger teserves, have tried to conduct research by
appointing research officers. These attempts have mostly failed due to lack
of career opportunities for researchers in the forest departments, lack of
infrastructure, funding, and sustained commitment to research.
(e)   Finally, lack of adequate funds have constrained the extent of research that
could be carried out. Moreover with national institutions cornering most of
the research funds by virtue of their expertise, local institutions have been
starved of funds thus curtailing the development of expertise and research
interests in PAs adjacent to them.
21.   The emphasis on systematic information collection and use is minimal. The day-to-day
pressures of PA management are very high and there is little time and motivation and few
resources to collect, manage, use, and disseminate information. For the most part, use of
information is reactive. Field staff spend considerable time on non-productive administrative
reporting processes.
Environmental Education
22.   Awareness and education programs have usually been confined to the construction
of an interpretation center for visitors and to the preparation of a few posters or leaflets. A
few of the PAs show films on wildlife and organize nature camps. Staff conduct most of
these programs with little or no NGO participation. The PAs do not have an overall
strategy or plan that defines target groups, tools to be employed, types of materials
needed, institutional arrangements for implementation (including NGO roles), financial
costs, and so forth.
Coordination Arrangements in Recent Multistate Natural Resource
Management Projects
23.   The World Bank has financed many multi state projects in the past, including the
recently-closed National Social Forestry Project (NSFP) and Pilot Project for Watershed
Development in Rainfed Areas (PPWDRA), each of which covered four states. Two
continuing integrated watershed development projects (IWDPs) are also multistate
projects.
24.   In each case the nodal ministry of Government of India was responsible for
clarifying and communicating project concepts to participating states, reviewing progress
of project implementation through half-yearly reports and periodic visits to the states,
organizing the monitoring and evaluation of the project, and coordinating training
programs. Special cells or offices were established in the nodal ministry to enable it to
perform the assigned functions.



53                             Annex 2
25.   In NSFP, the central support office (CSO) suffered from lack of proper identity.
and never had its own clearly designated full-time staff. It lacked adequate financial and
administrative powers, and was encumbered by a time-consuming clearance and decision
making-process. MOEF engaged seven regional institutions to carry out monitoring,
training, and studies on mutually agreed aspects of the project. The results of their
investigations were rarely fed into policy-making mechanisms of the states.
26.   A Watershed Development Council (WDC) staffed by twenty-three persons was
constituted in Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) to perform similar functions in respect of
watershed development projects financed by the Bank. Periodic workshops were
organized by WDC for exchange of implementation experience by the participating states.
Besides coordinating and supervising Bank-assisted projects, the WDC supervises other
watershed development programs sponsored by MOA.
Panchayat Raj Act
27.   Apanchayat is a municipal body. The recently introduced Panchayat Raj Act may
eventually affect the project's village-level institutional structures. Only a few states have
begun to implement this act (e.g. Karnataka, West Bengal).
28.   This act seeks to set in motion a decentralization process whereby the benefits of
development can reach people at the village level. While different states may have varying
structures, in general a three-tier system puts the zilla parishad/panchayat at the district-
level. Here elected representatives of the people and an administrative head chief executive
officer (CEO), who is an Indian Administrative Service officer handle matters at the
district level. A level below is the taluk panchayat, where elected representatives and
administrative officers are in charge of a few taluks, each consisting of approximately 30-
35 gram panchayats. A gram panchayat covers about 5000 population.
29.   Where a decentralized system is in place - West Bengal, for example -
implementation is quicker and people definitely participate more at the grassroots level. It
is important to note that planning, prioritization and implementation responsibilities shift
to the district level under the panchayat system.
30.   Village ecodevelopment committees would not necessarily correspond to the
panchayat structure, due to their smaller size and differences between administrative and
natural resource management boundaries. However, in some states they are likely to
include the local representative of the gram panchayat.



54                                Annex 2
Table 1: Public Expenditures and Funding of Seven Protected Areas
Rs. 100,000
Protected Area             Actual 93194 Actual 94/95    Estimate 95196 Planned 96197
Buxa Tiger Reserve
State funded non-plan          228          236              299          266
State funded plan               33           29               31           63
GOI Project Tiger               53           51               45           70
GOI Ecodevelopment              32           20               13           21
Bank Forestry                   72          100               67           87
GEF/IDA Ecodevelopment                                         9          228
Total                          418          436              464          735
Total without Project          418          436              455          507
Gir National Park & Sanctuary
State funded non-plan          126          171              197          167
State funded plan               34           42               46           45
GOI Ecodevelopment              11                             4           10
Other GOI                       12            7                9            3
|   UNDP Ecodevelopment |
GEF/IDA Ecodevelopment                                         8          215
Total                          183          220              264          440
Total without Project          183          220              256          225
Nagarhole National Park
State funded non-plan           47          109               23           28
State funded plan               35           80               32           20
GOI Ecodevelopment
Other GOI                      126           41               40           87
UNDP Ecodevelopment
GEE/IDA Ecodevelopment                                        10
Total                          208          230              105          135
ITotal without Project          208         230               95           135
Palamau Tiger Reserve
State funded non-plan           85           83               88          110
State funded plan               40           36               36           50
GOI Project Tiger               54           60               36           75
GOI Ecodevelopment              33           38                0           50
Other GOI                       63           42                7
GEF/IDA Ecodevelopment                                         1          105
Total                          275          259              168          390
Total without Project          275          259              167          285



55                                Annex 2
Protected Area             Actual 93/94  Actual 94/95   Estimate 95/96 Planned 96197
Pench Tiger Reserve
State funded non-plan           15          16               23           35
State funded plan               27          29               19           25
GOI Project Tiger               46          34               42            90
GOI Ecodevelopment              15          12                2            5
Other GOI                        8           6                1            10
Bank forestry project                                         0            3
GEF/IDA Ecodevelopment                                        2          160
Total                          111          97               89          328
Total without Project          111          97               87          168
Per ar Tiger Reserve
State funded non-plan           36          31               66           75
State funded plan              100         123              115           80
=  GOI Project Tiger                50          32               29            50
GOI Ecodevelopment               6          13                4            10
Other GOI                                     1               3            3
World Food Program                                            1            2
GEF/1DA Ecodevelopment                                                   150
Total                          192         200              218          370
Total without Project          192         200              218           220
Ranthambhore Tiger Reserve
State funded non-plan           33          48               43           52
State funded plan               58          45               47           57
GOI Project Tiger               56          59               64          178
GOI Ecodevelopment              20          23               10           90
Other GOI
GEF/IDA Ecodevelopment                                                   246
Total                          167         175              164          623
Total without Project          167         175              164          377
Total of Seven PAs                1554        1617             1473         3021
Total of 7 PAs without Proj.      1554        1617             1443         1917



56                                 Annex 2
Table 2: Public Expenditures and Funding of Wildlife Wings
Rs. 100,000
State                        Actual 93/94    Actual 94/95 Estimate 95196  Planned 96197
I                                  ._
West Bengal
State funded non-plan           664             735           884            918
State funded plan                 91           120            111            165
GOI ProjectTiger                  85           102            117            136
GOI Ecodevelopment                58            49             41             60
Other GOI                         87           101            155            222
_ Bank Forestry Project           77            165            319            380
=  GEF/IDA Ecodevelopment                                            9           228
Total                           1062           1272          1636           2109
Total without project           1062           1272          1627           1881
Gujarat
State funded non-plan            157           206            248            203
State funded plan                205            199           174            187
GOI Ecodevelopment                17              1            12             25
Other GOI                         61            47             27             60
UNDP Ecodevelopment
GEF/IDA Ecodevelopment             4              1             8            216
Total                            444           454            469            691
Total without project            440           453            461            475
Karnataka
State funded non-plan           491            615            602            535
State funded plan               235            322            300            220
GOI Ecodevelopment                58            51             69             30
Other GOI                        309           280            268            551
UNDP Ecodevelopment               2                             2
GEF/IDA Ecodevelopment                                         10            264
Total                           1095          1269           1251           1600
Total without project           1095           1269          1241           1336
Bihar
State funded non-plan           212            312            307            312
State funded plan                124            119           117            100
GOI Project Tiger                54             60            135            300
GOI Ecodevelopment                33            38             32             50
Other GOI                         63            79            107            150
GEF/IDA Ecodevelopment                                          1             53
Total                            486           608            699            965
Total without project            486           608            698            912



57                                 Annex 2
State                       Actual 93/94    Actual 94/95 Estimate 95196  Planned 96/97
1
Madya Pradesh
State funded non-plan           423           434            547           600
State funded plan               303           305            394           400
GOI Project Tiger               325           306            141           350
GOI Ecodevelopment               26            25              6            50
Other GOI                                                    161           300
Bank forestry project                                        266           825
GEF/iDA Ecodevelopment                                         2           160
Total                          1077          1070           1517          2685
Total without project          1077          1070           1515          2525
Kerala__ _ _ _                      _ _
State funded non-plan            45            76            267           470
State funded plan               515           653            607           700
GOI Project Tiger               176           155            106           200
GOI Ecodevelopment               51            48             52            50
Other GOI
_World Food Program                                                           2
Bank Forestry Project
GEF/A DA Ecodevelopment                                                    150
Total                           787           932           1032          1572
Total without project           787           932           1032          1422
Rajasthan
State funded non-plan           400           466            366           416
State funded plan               124           169            273           277
GOI Project Tiger               179           187            292           178
GOI Ecodevelopment               20            50             70            90
Other GOI
GEF/ADA Ecodevelopment                                                     246
Total                           723           872           1001          1207
Total without project           723           872           1001           961
Total of Seven PAs                 5674          6477           7606         10829
Tota of 7 PAs without Project      5670          6476           7575          9512



58                                           Annex 2
Table 3: Plan Budget Expenditures of MOEF Affecting Biodiversity
Rs. 100,000
Actual 93194 Actual 94195 Estimate 95/96 lanned 96/97
Autonomous Agencies Assisted by MOEF
SACON                                                          49          50             48          NA
Padmaja Nadu Himalayan Zoo                                     Nil         Nil           Nil          Nil
Center of Environment Education, Ahmedabad                    143         116            107          107
C.P. Ramaswami Aiyar Env. Ed. Centre, Madras                   34          37             47          47
Centre for Ecol. Res. and Training, Bangalore                  37          45             30          55
G.B. Pant Himalayn Paryavaran Evam Vikas Sansthan, Almora     435         503           457          457
Subtotal                                             _        698         751           689          666
Associated Units under Administrative Control of the Ministry
Botanical Survey of India                                     193         242           292          342
Zoological Survey of India                                    228         268            268          273
Central Zoo Authority                                         165         300           300          300
National Zoological Park                                        8           6             5            5
Wildlife Institute of India                                   325         350           350          350
Subtotal                                                      919        1166          1215         1270
MOEF Divisions
Conservation and Survey                                       742         650           600          600
VWildlife                                                      54          53            50           100
Environmental Education and Information                       331         359           385          385
_Projed Tiger Office - New Delhi Office (excluding GEF/IDA)    Nil          Nil           Nil          Nil
Subtotal                                                     1127        1062          1035         1086
Special Programs
Project Tiger - Funds to tiger reserves                       763         798           770          770
National Parks- Funds to national parks                      1130        1145          1150         1150
GOI Ecodevelopment Program                                    484         680           680          460
_FREEP - Biodiversity Component                                Nil          Nil           45          173
=Other significant programs (list)
_Subtotal                                                     2377        2623          2645         2553
GEF/IDA Ecodevelopment
_ MOEF                                                             0           0           140         1197
_ Funds to states                                               0            0           400         2420
_ Subtotal                                                         0           0           540         3617
Total                                                           5121         5602          6124         9191



59                                   Annex 3
Annex 3: Lessons Learned from Other Projects
Integrated Conservation and Development Projects
Lesson                                      Impact on Project Design
Need for common understanding of project    Project objectives defined and tested through series
objectives.                                 of workshops involving local people and NGOs.
Drafting of EPS/PID used to further clarify and
develop consensus on project objectives.
Orientation workshops planned to communicate
objectives to project staff, local stakeholders and
concerned NGOs.
Need to incorporate PA concerns into regional  Project design includes specific component and
planning and regulation                     creates high-level committee for this purpose.
Need for linkage between conservation and   Receipt of village ecodevelopment funds dependent
development objectives: local people must   on reciprocal agreement that specifies conservation
perceive development benefits as incentives for  actions of local people
conservation.
conservation.                     Priority given to development interventions that
directly depend upon or enhance biodiversity
conservation.
Need for active participation of beneficiaries.  Participatory rural appraisal used for indicative
planning during project preparation.
Participatory microplanning during project
implementation.
Adjustment mechanisms to facilitate changes in
approach during implementation.
Need to define project's scope (geographic reach,   Careful analysis of potential implementation
diversity of activities, and time period between  capacity and relative importance of various human
inception and implementation) within realistic,  pressures used to select project areas and to define
achievable limits in ways that will maximize  project scope for each PA.
efficient use of implementation capacity.
Risk of project investments acting as magnet  Project design incorporates items (a) through (g).
reduced by: (a) voluntary relocation; (b) not
providing social services or most investments i  Item (h) is beyond scope of project but reflects
core areas; (c) strong encroachment control; (d)    poli san
targeting buffer investments that provide   pocy.
substitutes to harmful PA uses; (e) limiting level of
financial support for enterprise investments; (f)
careful monitoring of migration activity; (g)
selection of project areas with relatively sedentary
populations rather than frontier situations; (h)
promoting employment and economic growth in
areas that have no influence on PAs.



60                                   Annex 3
Integrated Conservation and Develop  ent Projects continued
Lesson                                       Impact on Project Design
Need to identify parties to disputes and involve  Project monitoring, improved PA plans,
them in conflict resolution.                incorporating PA concerns into regional planning,
and village microplanning would identify dispute
parties, and provide mechanisms for resolution.
Need to plan safeguards for climatic crises.  Included in agenda of improved PA management
plans and research.
Forestry Projects in India
Lesson                                      Impact on Project Design
Joint Forest Management (JFM) provides      Project would directly support JFM activities in
examples of successful (a) participatory    buffer areas.
microplanning methodology, (b) relatively small
and homogeneous villages or hamlets, (b)    Arrangements for village ecodevelopment directly
participation of disadvantaged groups, (d)  apply items (a) through (e) and make adjustments
patcmpotion an sisa of .icropan ad          to item (f) to take into account the fact that PAs
composition and skills of m-licroplanning and  assets would not usually provide future cash
implementation support teams, (e) contractual  income to local people comparable to the JFM
agreements between state forest departments and   timber and non-timber forest product assets.
local communities, and (f) cost and benefit sharing
arrangements.
Economic incentives were essential to success of    Because main purpose of village ecodevelopment
farm forestry programs: farmers preferred high    investments is to provide sufficient incentive for
value timber over lower value fuelwood; timber  agreements, choices would not be limited to
transport and price restrictions acted as    subsistence activities or other paternalistic
disincentives to investment;                guidelines. Local communities would select
ecodevelopment investments. Analysis of
investment options includes identification of
significant policy constraints (although policy
reform would be outside project scope).
Farm forestry programs introduced locally   Local communities would select species, using
unfamiliar species for commercial sale and  their indigenous knowledge of plants and markets.
monoculture practices that did not provide soil and  All project supported ecodevelopment investment
water conservation.                         options, including forest technologies, would be
reviewed to ensure consistency with the project's
biodiversity conservation objectives
Forest plantation programs on public lands did not  JFM or equivalent arrangements would be adopted
succeed unless there were participatory     for all forest plantation investments on public land
microplanning and benefit sharing arrangements
like JFM.
Forest plantation programs did not adequately  Participatory microplanning would review all
incorporate multiple uses of public lands.  current uses of public lands.



61                                   Annex 3
Rural Development Projects in India
Lesson                                       Impact on Project Design
Numerical targets of physical outputs undermined   No numerical targets for physical outputs.
participatory objective and monitoring of these  Emphasis on process orientation.
targets and did not measure social and economic
impact.
Top down planning leads to inappropriate     Participatory approach and criteria. Topical PRA
investments; development of participatory rural  used during project preparation and further
appraisal methodology.                       developed during implementation. Criteria and
procedures designed to ensure participation of
local people in village ecodevelopment decisions.
If individuals are the unit of assistance, some  Families and cormnunities will be the unit of
families can have several beneficiaries and others   assistance.
none.
Importance of taking into account local level  Site-specific microplanning would address this
initiatives and regional characteristics.    concern.
Importance of input requirements, training   Microplanning process would include feasibility
requirements, marketing potential, and other  review.
technical and financial feasibility considerations.
Special efforts required to include disadvantaged    Microplanning process would include steps to
beneficiaries.                               facilitate participation of most disadvantaged
groups, which would subsequently be monitored.
Government procedures required that all money be  Provision to carry funds forward to subsequent
allocated before end of the fiscal year.     fiscal years.
Emphasis on wage employment has biased       Linkage of investments to biodiversity
investments toward infrastructure rather than  conservation objectives will bias expenditures
natural resource management and not reached  toward natural resource management and will
many remote areas.                           operate in remote areas closest to PAs.
Importance of accurate monitoring and evaluation.  Provision for extensive monitoring and evaluation
by field, state, and national officials and by
independent contractors, with reports widely
circulated to ensure verification, transparency, and
credibility.
Emphasis on learning and constructive problem
solving rather than accusatory reporting.
Importance of adequate training.             Provision of extensive training tied to specific
project objectives.
Restriction to government channels contributes to  Involvement of NGOs and strong public disclosure
leakages.                                    policy.
Normal government procedures lead to long-time   Explicit delegation of expenditure authority to
lags between plans and implementation and    local level including steps and channels for flow
require high transaction costs for beneficiary.  of funds and simple, low cost transaction
Drocedures.



62                                   Annex 3
Rural Development in India continued
Lesson                                      Impact on Project Design
Low opportunity cost to beneficiary of investment   Provision of cost sharing to ensure ownership and
development capital contributes to misuse and lack  sustainability.
of subsequent maintenance.
Use of existing organizational structures rather  Project will use existing forest department
than temporary project implementation units  structures, NGO support structures, and
increases sustainability.                   community structures wherever possible.
Requirements for efficient administration at the
PA level and for appropriate community groups
will lead to the creation of new structures, but
these will be permanent, not temporary.
Use of appropriate technical staff in existing line    Provisions for inter-agency collaboration and for
agencies or externally contracted specialists, rather  contracted specialists.
than relying on staff of the lead implementing
agency to provide technical advice outside their
normal field of specialization improves success.   I
Multi-state Projects in India
Lesson                                      Impact on Project Design
Disbursement to states based on past performance   Annual review of progress and work plans;
and on work plans meeting clearly specified  allocation of project funds based on quality of
criteria rather than on allocation determined at  performance and work plans.
appraisal provides incentives for project success.
State governments will have more incentive for  State governments would provide funding for all
project success if they have a significant financial  state government staff involved in project.
stake in project.
Need for national coordinating unit to have clear    Central Coordinating Unit designed accordingly.
identity and mandate, designated full-time staff,
and adequately delegated financial and
administrative powers, and not be a cell within the
ministry subject to normal government procedures.



63                             Annex 4
Annex 4: Notes on Project Preparation Process
1.    Preparation of the India Ecodevelopment Project, including indicative planning,
has been a country-driven and participatory process. These activities were carried out in
this way so that the project design and implementation would reflect the needs of affected
populations and the concerns of major stakeholder groups. The Ministry of Environment
and Forest (MOEF), in partnership with a national coordinating non-government
organization (NGO), the Indian Institute of Public Administration (IIPA), was responsible
for project preparation. The Indian government submitted the Indicative Plan to the Global
Environment Facility (GEF) and the World Bank for funding in June 1994. This part if the
exercise was financed using project preparation funds provided by the GEF and channeled
through UNDP.
2.    By that time, MOEF and IIPA had expanded involvement in preparation to the
following: seven government line agencies, ten state forest departments (SFDs)---the
eight proposed project SFDs plus the two SFDs implementing the Forestry Research
Education and Extension Project ecodevelopment components---and more than 40 NGOs.
3.    Project preparation took place in four stages; and stakeholder involvement
progressively increased at each stage. The four stages were as follows:
(a)   Defining project scope and selection criteria
(b)   Consulting with national, state, and local institutions
(c)   Performing participatory rural appraisals (PRAs) for indicative planning
(d)   Strengthening, and in some cases, establishing village groups and initiating
start-up activities.
Representative forestry NGOs and state and project officials undertook joint activities,
including at least 38 recorded meetings between March, 1992 and May, 1995 to discuss
project design and detailed work plans. The MOEF and IIPA also co-sponsored and
actively participated in 11 national and multisectoral consultation workshops, and 4
interstate and 14 state or project wide PRA training sessions.
Defining Project Scope and Selection Criteria
4.    Ecodevelopment has come to serve as a means for gaining local support for
conservation and for reducing impacts on biodiversity. This reflects lessons learned from
the Indian government's experiments with decentralized rural development programs and from
social forestry and joint forest management projects (JFM). For example, the policy paper
on ecodevelopment, issued by Project Tiger in 1991, consolidated findings on JFM
experiences as well as suggestions from previous papers (e.g., Eliciting Public Supportfor
Conservation in India, Indian Board for Wildlife, 1983; Wildlife and People, Wildlife
Institute of India, 1985). Background work also included numerous studies on the benefits
and failures of the panchayat (municipal government) system, including lessons on the
management of village based development assistance. Several workshops were also held in
1991 to incorporate these lessons into the developing ecodevelopment activities in and



64                              Annex 4
around national parks and reserves (e.g., Planning Commission workshop in Madras;
Wildlife Institute of India (WII) and Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) seminar).
5.    The MOEF workshop in 1992, which involved representatives from protected
areas throughout the country and from key NGOs, set the stage for a multilevel
consultation process. MOEF later held a day-long meeting to discuss key issues in project
preparation, such as defining the project's objectives, limiting its scope, and developing
site selection criteria.
6.    As stated in the Preinvestment Action Brief submitted by MOEF and IIPA to the
United Nations Development Program (UNDP), the agreed-upon selection criteria
included: (a) biogeographical representation; (b) degree of threat (mixture of problems
related to population pressures); (c) institutional framework (specifically, strength of
officials' interest in the project and presence of NGOs working in the area); (d) social
cohesiveness (presence of local groups); and (e) existence of people-oriented project
activities. Eventually, in interpreting these criteria, MOEF selected the proposed sites on
the basis of the importance of the site's biodiversity resources, regional representation, and
potential for success in implementing ecodevelopment activities. MOEF projected a
project site's chances of success on the basis of the nature and extent of human pressures
on biodiversity, protected areas (PA), ( management capacity and experience, existing
infrastructure (which accounted for the inclusion of six tiger reserves in the MOEF
proposal), accessibility, state and national government support, and state responsiveness
to community and NGO involvement. During the selection process, MOEF also decided to
include those sites highly motivated to implement ecodevelopment activities and with the
guaranteed capacity to do so.
7.    Preparation also included a survey of about 64 percent of all national parks,
reserves, and sanctuaries and a few site visits to establish a profile of potential project
sites. IIPA and two MOEF consultants evaluated findings from the survey and site visits
through a matrix analysis. They used this analysis to initially identify eleven potential sites
(Ranthambhore, Kalakaad, Pench, Periyar, Similipal, Buxa, Gir, Great Himalayan, Sariska,
Nagarhole, Palamau). MOEF subsequently selected Kalakaad and Great Himalayan for
support under the IDA financed Forestry Research Education and Extension Project.
Sariska was eliminated to avoid having more than one protected area per state.
8.    The 1994 government proposal was for eight sites, but in March, 1995, the Bank
reduced them to seven by excluding the Similipal Tiger Reserve in Orissa. This was
because Orissa did not provide the Bank with transparent, credible, and verifiable
assurances that all relocation after preappraisal would be consistent with the project
strategy for people in the PAs. (See Annex 20.)
Consulting with National and State Institutions
9.    IIPA served as the national coordinating NGO for project preparation but nine
other national NGOs actively participated in the conduct of special studies or through
participation in brainstorming meetings and national consultations (see List of NGOs).
MOEF and IIPA files have records of about 38 of these meetings and consultations(see
List of Consultations).



65                             Annex 4
10.  In addition other national NGOs and multilateral funding agencies participated in
project design through three nationally organized consultation workshops. The objectives
of the first workshop, sponsored by MOEF's Project Tiger, were to define objectives for
ecodevelopment projects and to develop selection criteria. The objectives of the other two
national workshops, financed through GEF/JNDP preparation funds, were to discuss the
indicative planning process (workshop in October 1993) and to evaluate results of PRAs
conducted in the eight sites then proposed (workshop in February 1994).
11.   In April 1994, at a meeting of the project steering committee, UNDP and
GEF/World Bank representatives, IIPA and other NGOs reviewed proposed project
activities in the Indicative Plan. MOEF, state, and NGO representatives held four further
meetings to respond to comments on this plan and to develop more detailed financial and
administrative procedures.
12.   More than 30 environmental NGOs attended a workshop in September 1994,
organized by the World Wide Fund for Nature-India (WWF-India). This workshop
endorsed ecodevelopment as a viable approach to human and environmental issues and
stressed the importance of sustaining NGO involvement in project decision making.
13.   At the local level, several village meetings and group consultations were held but
mostly remained undocumented.
Performing Participatory Rural Appraisals
14.   As part of site selection, IIPA conducted reconnaissance visits to seven sites, using
rapid assessment techniques, such as checklists and key informant interviews. After the
sites were identified, participatory rural appraisals (PRAs) were then conducted in local
communities. These were used to establish baseline profiles of affected populations and to
assess the capacity of local institutions to implement ecodevelopment activities.
15.   State or park officials---usually the assistant conservator of forest (ACF) or the range
officer---and a local NGO conducted several joint PRAs in sample villages for each project
site. To ensure consistency of data collection and to allow many respondents to
participate, IIPA and the Society for Promotion of Wastelands Development (SPWD)
conducted two training exercises on PRAs in February and July 1993. These focused on
mobilizing villagers and encouraging their participation. Several local PRA training sessions
were also held for project staff and local NGOs assigned to do data gathering using PRAs.
Concurrently WII, with financing from UNDP/FAO, organized a six week training
program in ecodevelopment planning where officers from selected PAs, including some
from this project, were trained.
16.   However, not all sites completed PRAs as scheduled sometimes because
participation was limited by the skills, training, and orientation of the PRA teams. Some
PAs had to expand PRAs to villages not covered in the first round (such as villages inside
protected area boundaries). In many cases, additional information was required.
Therefore, NGOs made a second set of PRAs to augment data earlier generated by project
officers and consultants.
17.   IIPA also collected baseline information from secondary sources across all sites to
supplement the PRA findings. This secondary data included the number, distribution, and



66                              Annex 4
composition of people in and around the PAs, socioeconomic parameters, and social
organizations and culture. IIPA was in charge of consolidating PRA findings and
secondary source data and presenting a set of proposed activities. Government and NGO
representatives provided feedback on these findings through technical reviews national
consultation, and project planning workshops. PRA results have yet to be formally presented
to local communities at organized village meetings, but some project sites have discussed
possible project activities and key issues, and a few of these meetings are documented (see
List of Consultations, below). Village ecodevelopment committees will be set up under the
project to sustain the participation of local people in the microplanning for ecodevelopment and
m the monitoring of project activities.
Update on Preparation
18.   Role of Indicative Plan. The indicative planning during project preparation
reflected only a sample of views; it was never intended to be comprehensive in scope, nor
to incorporate the views of all potential project participants. During project preparation it
helped to identify (a) the nature of typical village ecodevelopment investments and other
project investments and the participatory planning processes to be used to identify
reciprocal commitments and investments (Annex 8), and (b) preliminary background
information and social assessment findings (Annexes 6 and 20). During the Bank
preappraisal and appraisal missions, many improvements to the explicit criteria and the
planning processes were incorporated into the project design. The project also
incorporated new activities (e.g., incorporating PA concerns into regional activities) that
were not originally included, and expanded others (e.g., ecosystem management and
protection, impact monitoring and research) beyond levels envisaged in the original
proposal. The indicative plans have never been regarded as approved microplans,
approved PA management plans or other approved investment proposals. The project
design is not a blue print of tangible investments; rather it is a set of agreed processes and
criteria that would be used for the project duration. The project even includes provisions
to improve the processes and criteria during implementation, in response to experience.
19.   Gaps in Consultation. After the original project preparation efforts that finished
in early 1994, until the negotiations in July 1996, not all PA managers have regularly
communicated with local people and NGOs about the project. The Bank provided a PPF
Advance in early 1995, in part to facilitate such communication, but PPF expenditures did
not begin until 1996. In some PAs, gaps in consultation have contributed to
misunderstandings. The resulting problems have highlighted the importance of
government managers, NGOs, local people, and others making special efforts to build
effective, sustainable, communication channels.



67                               Annex 4
List Of Institutions Involved In Project Preparation
Project Implementing Institutions:
(1) Government:
Ministry of Environment and Forest (MOEF)
State forestry departments (SFDs)
National parks and tiger reserves (PAs)
(2) National Consulting Government Institutes:
Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Nature (SACON)
Wildlife Institute of India (WII)
(3) Non-Government: National Coordinating NGO:
Indian Institute of Public Administration (IIPA)
Institutions Involved Through Special Studies, Expert Consultations, Other
Consultations
(1) Government:
Ministries of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, Human Resource Development,
Finance, Rural Development, Integrated Tribal Development
(2) Government Institutes:
Botanical Survey of India (BSI)
Zoological Survey of India (ZSI)
Indian Institute of Forest Management (IIFM)
Wildlife Institute of India (WII)
Kerala Forest Research Institute (KFRI)
(3) National NGOs:
Society for the Promotion of Wastelands Development (SPWD)
Nature Conservation Society
Nature Club
Development Research Group
World Wild Fund for Nature -India (WWF-India)
Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS)
Indian National Trust for Arts and Cultural Heritage (INTACH)
Ranthambhore Development Foundation
Indira Gandhi Conservation and Resource Monitoring Center
1
Consultations have revealed a range of perspectives among NGOs. While most are supportive of the
project objectives and many have made constructive suggestions for design improvements, some
have expressed their distrust of any activities receiving financial support from the Bank or of any
activities being implemented in part by the government.



68                               Annex 4
(4) State/Project Site NGOs:
Buxa TR:           Regional Centre Afforestation and Ecodevelopment Board
Jadhavpur University
Rama Krishnan Mission
Gir NP:            National Nature Education Foundation, Junagargh
Aga Khan Rural Support Programme (AKRSP)
Bharat Agro-Industries Foundation (BAIF)
Forest Club of Dhari
Nagarhole NP:      Mysore Resettlement and Development Agency (MYRADA)
Society for Ecodevelopment Through Technology
BAIF Development Research Foundation
Palamau TR:        Nature Conservation Society, Daltonganj
Pench TR:          Indian Institute of Forest Management, Bhopal
Periyar TR:        Landpeople, Trivandrum
Peermade Development Society
H ighrange Social Development Society
Ranthambhore TR:  Ranthambhore Foundation
Centre for Environmental Education (CEE)
WWF-India
BAIF
List Of Consultations
(1)   Nationally Organized Consultations
March 1992    MOEF-Project Tiger Workshop on Ecodevelopment
June 1992     Multisectoral meeting to discuss proposed Ecodevelopment Project
July 1993     MOEF meeting to discuss initial PRA results with state and park
officials and national consulting NGOs
October 1993   Multisectoral Consultation Workshop to discuss indicative planning
February 1994   MOEF multisectoral workshop to discuss PRA results and consultants' reports
April 1994    MOEF Project Steering Committee and NGO and UNDP representatives
meeting to review Indicative Plan
August 1994    Meetings to revise Indicative Plan



69                                Annex 4
October 1994    State and PA officials meeting to discuss PRA findings and present initial
project plans
February 1995  IIPA briefing to state and PA officials on supplementary planning and design
of the Indicative Plan, together with national consulting NGOs
May 1995       Presentation of work plans and budgets by state and PA officials including
IIPA and other local NGOs
(2)            Interstate Consultations and Training Programs
June 1992      Meeting of state forestry officials and project officers to discuss proposed
Ecodevelopment Project
December 1992  State and project meetings with IIPA and other NGOs; start of PRAs
February 1993   Two interstate PRA training workshops involving PA officials and NGO
representatives organized by SPWD and IIPA
July 1993      Two interstate PRA training workshops involving PA officials and NGO
representatives organized by SPWD and IIPA
September 1993  Continuation of PRA activities; IIPA follow-up of PRAs
April-Sept 1994 IIPA site visits and follow-up of PRAs; at least three field visits per site done
by IIPA, SPWD, and WU.
(3)   Examples of Other Consultations
Village meetings were held in all PAs where the majority of villages within the project
boundaries were represented; average number of people attending village meetings was about 20,
with a balanced mix of men and women; most of the meetings were presided over by project
officials, but other meetings were also facilitated by trained community officers from local NGOs
or IIPA. Topics in these meetings covered information dissemination about the proposed project
(e.g., description of possible activities, objectives); needs and problems of local residents; feedback
on proposed activities. Attendance in the meetings was high and the format allowed participation of
most community members. There were occasions when separate meetings with women's groups
were held to enable them to voice their opinions freely.
Small group meetings were useful in the conduct of PRAs. These meetings were held in
groups of six to ten people and, in some cases, in focus groups, such as groups of women, tribals,
or livelihood groups. Social mapping and illustrations were often done through small group
meetings.
PRA exercises not only provided useful baseline information but were valuable in
encouraging local people to participate in project planning and design. Six projects have on file
the results of detailed social mapping, which were later used in the identification of key
problem areas. Synchronized calendars provided information on planting and collection
schedules that were used in determining the timing of credit and input procurements. Other
useful information, PRA consultation, and data gathering tools included group construction of
matrices on non-timber forest products, value and species of trees, and problem-solution
diagrams. Some PRAs applied transects to depict geographic variations across the site. The
extent of PRAs in each site is described in the table below.



70                                 Annex 4
Summary of PRAs for Indicative Planning
Project Site,     Number of   Government/NGOs           Comments on Methodology, Results,
State              Villages    Conducting PRAs          Problems
Bu.xa, West           2        Asst. Cons. of Forest    Tools used: mapping, matrices,
Bengal                         (ACF) trained by WII     seasonality calendar; held 6 village
____________               (???spell out)           meetings
.1sir, Gujarat        5        National Nature          Park ranger assisted in PRAs; used
Education Foundation    mapping, seasonality calendar,
checklist
Nagarhole,            8        Society for             Retired forest officer and MYRADA
Kamataka                       Ecodevelopment Through  held village meetings; tools used social
Technology; Mysore      mapping, transects, seasonality
Resettlement and        calendar, matrices, trees assessment;
Development Agency      small-scale start-up activities done by
(MYRADA)                MYRADA in 2 villages
Palamau, Bihar        10       Nature Conservation      20 of the 139 villages (including 10
Society and Park officials  with PRAs) interviewed by park
officials using checklist format; tools
used: social mapping, seasonality
calendar, matrices
l'ench, Madhya        16      Indian Institute of Forest   Tools used: transect, social mapping,
Pradesh                        Management              drawings, seasonality calendar
Pcriyar, Kerala      10        Land People, Trivandrum   Retired forester and an anthropologist
from Peermade Development Society
(a church-based NGO) used social
mapping, focus group meetings,
drawings, seasonality calendar
Ranthambhore,         15       Ranthambhore            Tools used: transect, social mapping,
R.ajasthan                     Foundation              gender games, trees assessment,
seasonality calendar



71                                   Annex 4
Participatory Rural Appraisal Findings
ECODEVELOPMENT ISSUES                       _FSTRATEGIES
(1) LIVESTOCK GRAZING
Livestock grazing within PA:                    a. Promote fodder production on village
wastelands outside PA
* Livestock: Cattle 105,000 / ha.              b. Reduce number of cattle per family
c. Improve cattle breeds for high
* Fodder consumption: 10.74 t/fanmly/yr          productivity
d. Introduce stall feeding of cattle
(2) FUELWOOD COLLECTION
Domestic fuelwood collection within PA:         a. Develop fuelwood plantations outside
PA
* Fuelwood consumption: 3.6 t/family/yr         b. Establish non-conventional source of
energy (biogas, solar, wind)
* Fuelwood species                              c. Introduce fuelwood saving devices
(e.g., smokeless stoves)
d. Increase sustainable access to fuelwood
in forest reserves through joint forestry
activities
(3) LOW AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY
Rainfed monsoonal agriculture within PA:        a. Provide small-scale irrigation schemes
for farms around PAs:
* Marginal lands:                                * Tubewells and pipelines
* Impoundments on small streams with
* Small farm size:                                minor irrigation schemes
b. Increase agricultural productivity on
* Crops per year: I per monsoon,                 existing farms by:
followed by fallow                              * Providing inputs (e.g. seed, fertilizer)
* Encouraging use of biofertilizers, and
compost
(4) POACHING
Poaching within PA:                             a. Induct local tribes into anti-poaching
squads
* Location: Non-inhabitants                    b. Develop anti-poaching campsites
c. Solicit cooperation of communities near
* Animals: Mainly herbivores                     PA in anti-poaching programs
(5) NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (NGOs)
Lack of NGOs in vicinity of PA:                 a. Involve and prepare local community
groups for NGO tasks
* For undertaking ecodevelopment work          b. Persuade establish NGOs at State level
to assist in planning and implementing
activities
(6) CROP DAMAGE
Crop damage within PA:                          a. Introduce crop protection measures,
mainly electric fencing
* Mainly by elephants                          b. Promote participative patrolling of fields
c. Promote crop insurance



72                                   Annex 4
Participatory Rural Appraisal Findings (continued)
(7) EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNIMES
Lack of employment opportunities within PA:     a. Increase involvement of local
community in management and
* 100 days employment / forest village           environmental regeneration work within
family in forestry                              PA
b. Employ local people in biomass
* 1991: 277,500 person days/Forestry work        regeneration and land improvement
1993: 594,000 person days/Forestry work         schemes in areas adjacent to PA
c. Establish environmentally sustainable
income generation activities
(8) TIMBER EXTRACTION
Illegal timber extraction from PA:              a. Discourage the establishment of wood
demanding industries in vicinity of PA
* Due to establishment of wood veneer          b. Acquire boats and train anti-poaching
factories near PA                               squads, involving the local community,
to guard stream banks and thereby
prevent timber smuggling
(9) FLOODING
Flooding within PA:                             a. Increase studies to understand
flooding within downstream PAs caused
* Especially in West Bengal and                  especially by human perturbations in
downstream of Bhutan                            upstream parts of the watershed
b. Examine land use patterns in watersheds
that prevent downstream floods
Source:IIPA, 1994. Biodiversitv Conservation through Ecodevelopment: An Indicative Plan.
303 pp. New Delhi: Indian Institute of Public Administration



73                                   Annex 4
Indicative List of Possible Village Investments.
On the basis of PRA surveys in sample communities in and around the PAs, the
project preparation teams have identified an indicative list of possible ecodevelopment
investments. These investment ideas will require additional site-specific review to judge
whether they meet the above criteria. Not all investments would necessarily be adopted;
others may be identified during more detailed planning. The activities can be grouped as
follows:
T'ype                  Variety
Participatory forestry  Joint Forest Management
Private timber and fuelwood plantations
Establishment and operation of nurseries
PA protection          Community patrolling                    Trenches
Electric fences
Energy conservation    Improved stoves
Biogas plants
Livestock improvement
and fodder production  Cattle breed improvement               Pasture regeneration
Fodder plantations                     Facilities for stall feeding
Ecotourism             Nature guides
Tourist accommodations
Operation of visitor attractions, e.g., museums
Other ecotourism service concessions
Non-timber forest
product cultivation
(NTFP)                 NTFP cultivation                       NTFP collection & marketing
Alternative income
generation             Sericulture                             Lac production
Bee keeping                            Food processing
Pig rearing                            Rope production
Poultry                                Weaving
Mushroom cultivation                   Paper production
Inland fisheries                       Tailoring
Rabbit rearing                         Lantana chip board production
Soil and water
conservation           Vegetative treatments
Small stabilization structures
Reducing wildlife      Electric fences                         Trenches
damage                 Alternative crops                       Community patrolling






75                             Annex 5
Annex 5: Rationale for GEF Funding and Analysis of
Incremental Costs of Biodiversity Conservation
1.    Consistency with Biodiversity Convention. The project would fully conform to
the Convention on Biological Diversity and guidance from the Conference of the Parties.
The Indian government has identified ecodevelopment as a national priority in the
biodiversity action plans and policy statements. Consistent with the convention, project
activities would:
(a)   Strengthen conservation, management, and sustainable use of eocsystems and
habitats in environmentally vulnerable areas including semiarid and mountain
regions
(b)   Conserve biodiversity and its sustainable use through innovative measures
including economic incentives and compensation to local communities for
opportunity costs
(c)   Strengthen local and indigenous people's involvement in conservation policies
by integrating social dimensions, with particular regard to poverty
(d)   Promote conservation and sustainable use of endemic species
(e)   Serve as demonstration projects and encourage scientific excellence.
2.    GEF Operational Strategy. The project would also be consistent with the GEF
operational strategy. It would:
(a)   Meet incremental costs to achieve agreed global benefits (see analysis below)
and ensure cost-effectiveness
(b)   Be country-driven and based on national priorities
(c)   Provide full disclosure, and provide for stakeholder consultation and
participation
(d)   Leverage financing from other sources
(e)   Be monitored and evaluated
(f)   Support long-term protection and sustainable use of biodiversity in forest,
semiarid, and mountain ecosystems.
3.    Global Significance. The project meets GEF criteria by addressing urgent global
biodiversity conservation needs. The project would conserve biodiversity in seven critical
areas, in this megadiversity country. One of the seven protected areas, Gir, has the
world's only population of Asian lions. The other six project sites support vital
populations of tigers, among the world's most endangered carnivores, as well as other rare
and endangered flora and fauna . Five sites are included in the internationally recognized
Project Tiger program, which uses the tiger as a symbol of national heritage in order to
protect a wide range of ecosystems and the other species that depend on them. Reviews
and programs sponsored by United Nations agencies have given official recognition to five
of the sites, including both of the sites that are not part of Project Tiger. In combination,
these sites give good biogeographic and habitat coverage (e.g., dry deciduous open



76                              Annex 5
forests, semi-evergreen forests, moist deciduous open forests, and wet evergreen forests).
The project would conserve ecosystems in danger of fragmentation and degradation. The
level of threats to biodiversity in the seven sites is high and requires a substantial effort on
an urgent basis. The project, combined with the country's demonstrated commitment to
conservation, should help to counteract these threats on a sustainable basis. The project,
with IDA financing, would also help the Indian government to prepare future projects
addressing other critical biodiversity issues.
4.    Overview of Incremental Cost Analysis. The analysis of "incremental costs" in
accordance with GEF guidelines shows baseline costs of US$19 million, which would be
financed locally and incremental costs of US$48 million, which would be financed by GEF
and IDA. The Government of India realizes that, in view of the scale of external funding
required, it cannot expect to receive a GEF grant sufficient to cover the entire incremental
cost of the global alternative. However, it is so strongly committed to the objectives of the
project that it is willing to borrow up to US$28 million of IDA resources to cover 58
percent of the incremental cost. A GEF grant of US$20 million would cover the remaining
42 percent of the incremental cost.
5.    Baseline Scenario. Under the baseline scenario (i.e., without the global project),
state and national governments would continue to provide the current level of funding for
traditional PA management. This level of funding compares extremely well with that of
other developing countries. During FY 95/96 this funding was US$4.2 million for the
seven project sites (see Annex 2); continuing this level would imply an expenditure of
US$21.0 million during the five year project period. However, it is assumed that much of
this funding is not directly related to the project focus and therefore only US$10 million of
this sum is included in the baseline scenario (for breakdown see table below). In addition,
the national government would provide over US$2 million for additional village
ecodevelopment funds flowing to individual communities, on top of the US$ 1 million
currently provided through the existing MOEF program. The baseline also includes US$2
million in increased operation and maintenance, because these expenditures would provide
national as well as global benefits. Local people would contribute US$5 million. The total
cost of the projected baseline activities is therefore estimated at US $ 19 million. Both the
national and state governments recognize the importance of the ecodevelopment
approach, but widespread poverty is causing many competing demands for scarce public
funds.
Base Cost Scenario (US$ million)
Existing    Increases in   Expenditures of
Government    Government    Local People
Expenditures    Expenditures
Works and goods                            2
Village ecodevelopment funds                1             2             5
Salaries                                    5
Operation and maintenance                  2              2
Total                                    10             4             5
6.    Under the baseline scenario, the negative environmental impacts of local people on
biodiversity, and the negative trends in the richness, complexity, diversity, connectivity,
and regeneration of ecosystems and species would continue to accelerate. The baseline
scenario would not include resources for contracting NGOs, for intensive staff training, or



77                              Annex 5
or for supervisory travel. The increase in ecodevelopment funds, while significant, would
still be insuffient. The baseline financing would not provide the critical mass of financing
that is required to address the increasing pressures on the project PAs. The extent and rate
of degradation among the project PAs would vary, but in all cases it would cause
significant losses in global biodiversity. It is likely that some of the most vulnerable PAs
(e.g., Ranthambhore) would lose much of their valuable biodiversity within the next 20
years.
7.    Global Alternative. With GEF and IDA financing, the national and state
government would be able to undertake a much more ambitious protection/buffer zone
development program in and around the seven PAs.This larger scale of funding is needed
to address urgent threats to biodiversity, to ensure coverage of globally significant sites, to
test the ecodevelopment concept in a representative range of climatic, habitat and
socioeconomic environments, to develop alternative livelihoods, and to develop a
framework for expanded future support. The conservation agenda is burgeoning. GEF
would meet a significant portion of the gap between increasing conservation requirements
and limited budget resources. One of the most important requirements is the application of
the new, initially more costly, participatory approaches (including the negotiation and
implementation of reciprocal commitments between local people and PA authorities) that
address the increasing pressures on PAs. The global alternative would slow, halt, or
possibly even reverse negative environmental impacts and ecological trends. It would
offset negative economic and cultural impacts of PAs on local communities (an
opportunity cost of global conservation which is rarely acknowledged and compensated),
and empower communities to meet their needs in an environmentally sustainable manner.
It would provide a firmer base of public support for the PAs, and increase the
understanding of PA biodiversity, local people, and their interactions. In addition to
conserving globally significant biodiversity in the seven PAs, the global alternative would
also develop capacity for increased conservation in the future through preparation of
future projects, financed by IDA. The benefits of the global alternative correspond in
general to the project benefits. For more detailed analysis of benefits, see Annex 21.
8.    No Net National Benefits From Additional Initiatives. There would be no net
national benefits from these additional initiatives. The village ecodevelopment program
will substitute roughly equal quantities of sustainable, conservation-compatible incomes
for resources for incomes and resources that are currently adversely affecting biodiversity.
National benefits associated with other components are covered in the baseline case.



78                               Annex 5
9.    Incremental Costs. The costs of the Baseline Scenario and the GEF Alternative
are presented below, by major project component (in US$ mln):
Major Components                      Baseline          GlobalAlternative
US$ million          US$ million
PA management                            8                     15
Village ecodevelopment                   10                   36
Env. ed., monitoring & research          0                     5
Project management                        1                    6
Preparation of future projects           0                     3
2                       0                    2
Reimbursement of PPF
Total                                  19                    67
The comparison of baseline scenario costs (US$19 million) with the costs of the GEF
alternative (US$67 million) results in an incremental cost of about
US$48 million to achieve global benefits. The GEF grant of US$20 million would
contribute substantially to financing these incremental costs.
10.   Use of Project Funds and Additionality. In the context of scarce public
resources, tight budgets, and competing demands, it is important that all project funds be
used in accordance with the project design for the agreed project objectives and that
financing be provided as an additionality. The project includes contracted consultants who
would review the project expenditures and procurement (for terms of reference, see
Annex 11). To provide information related to additionality the progress reporting would
include data on biodiversity conservation expenditures (see Annex 16).
Financed exclusively by IDA; not financed by GEF.
2
Financed exclusively by IDA; not financed by GEF.



Annex 6: Background on the Seven Protected Areas
Table 1: Protected Areas: Biogeographical Features
Protected Area                     Area  Biogeographic Zone and         Major Vegetation                   Biodiversity Values                              Important Species
State                           (sq. kn. Province
Buxa Tiger Reserve,                  761 2C: Central Himalaya           Tropical moist & subtropical hill forests High floral & faunal diversity            Large prey-predators. Elephant.
West Bengal                          315 7B: Lower Gangetic Plains                                         Regional PA connectivity                        Clouded leopard, Small mammals,
55 lLower vertebrates & invert.                                                                                      Lower vertebrates, invertebrates,
391                                                                                                                   Orchids & other plant forms
Gir National Park, Gujarat          1412 4B: Semi-arid: Gujrat-Rajwara  Very dry teak forests              The only Asiatic lion population                Lion
258                                Dry deciduous scrub forest
1154
0
Nagarhole (Rajiv Gandhi) National    643 6A: Deccan Peninsula: Deccan  Tropical Semi-evergreen;            In Nilgiri Biosphere Reserve                    Large prey-predators,
Park,                                192 Plateau South                  Southern Tropical moist & dry      Large prey-predator system                      Elephant
Karnataka                            451                                deciduous;                         Regional PA connectivity                        Small carnivores,
l                                Man made wetlands                 Lower vert. & invert.; Wetlands                  Waterfowl
Palamau Tiger Reserve, Bihar        1026 6D: Deccan Peninsula: Chota    Sal dominated & mixed deciduous, &   Large prey - predator system                  Large prey-predators
213 Nagpur                         bamboo forests                     Regional PA connectivity
766                                                                   Largest forested area in state                                                         _
0I
Pench Tiger Reserve,                 758 6E: Deccan Peninsula: Central   Southem Tropical dry deciduous: teak Large prey - predator system                 Large prey-predators
Madhya Pradesh                       293 Highlands                      dominated & mixed                  Regional PA connectivity
157
308 
Periyar Tiger Reserve,               777 5B: Western Ghats Mountain    Tropical wet & semi-evergreen, &    Very high diversity & endemism in plants, invertebrates Large prey-predators, Butterflies,
Kerala                               350                                moist deciduous forests;           & lower vertebrates                             Herpdtofauna, Small mammals,
427                                Montane grasslands                                                                 Orchids, fers, & other plant forms
0
Ranthambhore Tiger Reserve,         1335 4B: Semi-arid: Gujrat Rajwara   Tropical dry & northern dry deciduous; Large prey-predator system                 Lage prey-predators,
Rajasthan                            393                                Dry deciduous scrub;               Wetlands                                        Hyena,
801                                Man made wetlands                                                                  Caracal.,
0                                                                                                                  [Water fowls
First line shows total sq. km. of protected area (either tiger reserve or in the cases of Gir and Nagarhole, national park); second line shows sq. km. of core area, third line show sq.
km. of non-core sanctuary & park area, and fourth line shows sq. km. of forest reserve & enclave area. Does not include periphery within project area but outside PAs. (In case of
Gir and Nagarhole, the estimated size of the core area reflects past management practice rather than official designation of entire PA as national park which legally treats entire
area as core.)



Table 2: Project Areas: Demographic Features
Protected Area       Area (sq.       Population      Population         Tribal    Percent  Comments
km.)                         Density   Population         Tribal
Buxa Tiger                  NA            36,000         NA (47)         15,700        44%   No settlemcnt in intended National Park (NP); 37 Forest Villages in Reserve, of which 8 in
Reserve,                    761           15,600              20          6,500        42%   excluded enclaves & 29 in Sanctuary, In addition there are 5 in fixed demand holdings in forest
West Benal                  315                0               0              0         0%   reserve.
Gir National Park           NA            72,000         NA (51)          2,800          4%   Hamlets (Nesses) in long-standing NP (core) were resettled in 1970-1986; 54 remaining Nesses in
and Sanctuary,             1412            7,100               5          2,800        39%   notified NP (pop 2540); Notified NP also includes 3 temple complexes (pop 65) and 14 forest
Gujarat                     258                0               0              0         0%   villages in periphery (pop 4494).
Nagarhole (Rajiv            NA            70,000        NA(108)          17,500        25%   54 settlements in notified NP, including interior landlcss laborers and periphery agriculturishs.
Gandhi) National            643            7,100              I          7,000        99%
Park, Karnataka             192                0               0                        0%
Palamau Tiger               NA            75,000         NA (73)         55,600        76%   3 Forest Villages in intended NP (pop 630). 102 villages in legally excluded enclaves in Sanctuary
Reserve, Bihar             1026           39,000              38         29,600        76%   of which 27 are subject to relocation proposed by the Irrigation Dept
213             630                3              0       100%
Pench Tiger                 NA            48,000         NA (64)         23,000        46%   No settlements in proposed NP; already resettcd.
Reserve, Madhya             758           12,000              16          5,800        48%
Pradesh                     293                0               0              0         0%
Periyar Tiger               NA            62,000         NA(80)          15,500        25%   3 Tribal settlements (pop 2036) and I agricultural settlement (pop 1820) in Sanctuary periphery.
Reserve,                    777            3,900               5          2,000        51%   There are 225,000 people living within a 2 km. radius of the PA.                             00
Kerala                      350                0               0              0         0%                                                                                                o
Ranthambhore,               NA            64,000         NA (48)         36,500        57%   4 villages in and on boundary of notified NP (pop 1210); 25 villages in Sanctuaries (pop 3067).
Tiger Reserve,             1335            4,300               3          1,000        26%
Rajasthan R                 393            1,210               3          1,000        83%
Total Seven PAs             NA           427,000         NA (64)        166,600        39%   If Nagarhole regarded as 100% core, then core = 2,465 sq. km., total numn of people in core areas
6714           77,000              11         48,800        63%      8 8,940, and average pop. density of core = 4 persons per sq. km.
2014            1,840               1          1,630        89%   _
Area: The project area comprises land within a 2 km. radius of the Protected Area (PA). The first line shows that the sq. kin. of project area is not available (NA). Second line gives
total area of PA (either tiger reserve or in case of Nagarhole, the notified national park, and of Gir, the notified park and sanctuary) including both core and other areas. The third line
indicates area of core (in case of Nagarhole, the core is defined in accordance with past management practice rather than current official designation of entire PA as national park which
legally treats entire PA as core).
Population: First number includes all project beneficiaries (some but not always all of the people living within 2 km. of the PA boundary). Second number indicates people living
within the Protected Area (PA), many of whom live outside the core conservation areas, in enclaves and other parts of tiger reserves where human settlement is allowed. Third number
gives number of people who live in core area, as defined above.
Popultion Density: First line shows that persons per sq. km in total project area is not available. Number in parenthesis indicates relative pop. pressures with ratio of people living
within 2 kn radius to total area of Protected Area (PA). Second line shows number of persons per sq. km in total PA. Third lines shows persons per sq. km. in core.



81                                  Annex 6
Table 3: Commercial Collection of NTFP
Buxa                         Gir                        Nagarhole
Annual permits for the       Rayan - fruit and thorns   Hunse (Tamarindus indica)
following amounts:           (Manilkara hexandra)       Alalae (Terniinalia chebula)
Kakkebark (Cassia fistula)
Totala pods                  Karamdi (Carissa carandas)   Honge (Pongamia pinnata)
(Oroxylum indicum) - 20,000                             Seege (Acacia coucinna)
Amla (Emblica officinalis)    Antuvala (Sapindus emarginatus)
Naglata shoots                                          Bela (Feronia elephatum)
(Bauninia anguina) - 50,000  Bher (Zizyphus mauritiana)   Nelli (Emblica officinalus)
Dhupa (Ailanthus triphysa)
Decorative Golden fungus     Aritha (Sapindus trifoliatus)   Gulaganchi (Abrus precatorius)
(Polyporus spp) - 5,000,000                             GaDjige (Caesalpina bounducella)
Honey                      Thupra (Diospyrus melanoxylon)
Decorative Sponge fungus     Wax                        Dalechini (Cinnanonum zeylancium)
(Agaricus spp) - 9 tones                                Geru (Anacardium occidentale)
Muthuga leaves (Butea monosperma)
Narkeli leaves                                          Sagade (Schleichera oleosa)
(Pterygota alata) - 200,000                             Maggare seeds (Randia dumetorum)
Kasarka (Strychnos nux-vomica)
Dhundul dry fruit                                       Kadugera (Semicarpus anacardium)
(Luffa aegyptica)- 200,000                              Lichens
Wild tumeric
Wild ginger
Eachalu (Phonix sylvestris)
Makliberu
Halmaddi
Kalabale
Wax
Horns
Lac
Honey
Bones



82                                   Annex 6
Table 3 contd. Commercial Collection of NTFP
Palamau          Pench                       Periyar                  Ranthambhore
Mahua - flowers  Tendu patta (Dispyros       Cinnamon bark            Permits are given
& fruits        melanoxylon)                 (Cinnanonum zeylancium)  for the following:
Lac
Tussar          Mahua fruit and flowers     Kulamavu oil              Butea leaves (Butea
Cane            (Mahua indica)              (Kingiodendron            monosperma)
Honey                                       pinnatum)
Chironji (Buchanania lanzan)                         Tendu patta
Thelli powder (Carnarium   (Diospyros
Gum (Stercula urens)        strictum, Vatteria indica)   melanoxylon)
Mahul bhel (Bauhania vahli)   Reeds                  Roofing materials
(Grewia spp.)
Bamboo                      Cane
Lac
Grass                      Honey
Palm leaves
Antlers of Cheetal & Sambar



83                               Annex 6
Buxa Tiger Reserve
Location
1.    Buxa Tiger Reserve is situated in northem West Bengal's Jalpaiguri district, on the
border with Bhutan and the state of Assam. It covers an area of 761 sq. km, with a core zone
of 314.5 sq. km designated as sanctuary (117 sq. km proposed the national park), and the
remaining 391 sq. km categorized as forest reserve.
2.    The Protected Area includes two distinct types of topography: the southern plains,
at an elevation of 150 m, and the northern hills, with elevations up to 1750 m. Several
seasonal and perennial rivers, the largest being the Sankosh River, drain the hills. The
annual rainfall is about 400 cm, mostly from the southwest monsoon; annual temperatures
range from -10' to 40C.
3.    Buxa's combination of habitats - semi-evergreen and subtropical hill forest with
tropical moist forest and wetland - shelters a particularly wide and unusual variety of
wildlife. Human occupation of the Gangetic Plains has been intensive for so long that
representative natural areas are few. The Central and Eastern Himalaya, on the other hand,
are a treasure trove of diversity, and a great many floral and faunal elements from the
Eastern Himalaya spill into Buxa.
People
4.    According to the 1991 census, 15,608 people inhabit "forest villages" and fixed
demand holdings within the Protected Area. The indigenous population includes Bengalis,
Nepalese and members of Scheduled Tribes (primarily Rava, Bhutia, Bodo, Garu and
Santal) and the Scheduled Rajbanshi Caste. The British established forest villages at the
turn of the century; settlers received up to 0.2 ha of homestead land and permanent
cultivation areas up to 0.4 ha in hill areas, or 0.8 ha in the plains. Bangladeshi immigrants,
among more recent arrivals, reside on the outskirts of the PA.
5.    At present there are 37 forest villages inside reserve boundaries, and eight within
the park. Forest villagers derive their income from sources including employment in Forest
Department operations (decreasing due to restrictions resulting from the establishment of
the PA); intercropping or 'taungya' in plantation areas; collection of NTFP for non-
resident permit holders (see Table 3) and other NTFP for themselves, for which no
royalties are charged; and traditional agriculture.
6.    Forest Department operations account for five fixed-demand holdings within
reserve boundaries. For a number of years, the practice of renewing annual fixed demand
licenses has lapsed, due to concern that leasing of forest areas for non-forest purposes
would contravene provisions of the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980; technically, these
settlements could be considered illegal.
7.    Forty-four revenue villages, with a population of 84,648 (1991 census), surround
the project area. Scheduled Tribes form 44% of this population; 36% belong to Scheduled
Castes. PA authorities have targeted a population of 36,000 for the ecodevelopment
project.



84                                Annex 6
8.    Urban settlements within 5 km of the reserve include Alipurduar (pop. 26,000), as
well as a few large villages. 25 tea estates adjoining the reserve add a population of
125,601 of which over half belong to Scheduled Tribes.
9.    Agriculture is the principal activity in the revenue villages adjoining the PA, with
rain-fed paddy rice, jute and tea as the main crops. Land is primarily under private
ownership (raiyat), but some wasteland is held by the Government as vested land. Tea
garden lands are allocated on a long-term basis by the Land Revenue Department. About
20% of rural households are landless or sharecroppers. There are 279 recognized
firewood dealers, 26 sawmills, 45 cane processing units and four veneer units in close
proximity of the reserve.
10.   Approximately 29,000 people visited Buxa Tiger Reserve during 1992-1993.
Three-quarters come for riverside picnics around Jainti, others visit two holy caves within
the project area, and a small number venture further inside the reserve in order to trek at
higher elevations. At present there is little opportunity for local residents to participate in
tourism activities, since operations are controlled by the Forest Department.
Biodiversity Values
11.   Nearly 120 sq. km. of lowland moist forest and large areas of the hill forests are still
relatively undisturbed. These forests contain the best remnants of the rich biodiversity in this
area. Nine distinct forest types have been identified within PA borders, and 1,000 species of
plants, including ferns.
12.   The clouded leopard, goral, Malayan giant squirrel, parti-colored flying squirrel, hoary-
bellied squirrel, Himalayan palm civet and yellow-throated marten represent larger Central and
East Himalayan mammals. Characteristic animals of the Gangetic plains, now rare, include
tiger, leopard, elephants, sambar, chital, and otter. Two species historically reported, the wild
buffalo and the Great Indian rhinoceros, are no longer found at Buxa but occur in adjoining
PAs.
13.   This PA is too small in area to sustain populations of large mammals over time. With
Jaldapara situated to the west, Butan to the north, and Assam to the east, efforts to maintain
and improve wildlife access to other protected areas will be vital to the long-term survival of
big animals such as elephants.
14.   Birdlife includes the Bengal florican and black-necked crane (only a few sightings),
along with a full compliment of Himalayan birds- the 185 reported species are likely to be only
a sample. A great variety of smaller mammals, lower vertebrates (fishes, amphibians and
reptiles), invertebrates, such as butterflies and moths, and plant forms such as orchids remain to
be studied.
Biodiversity Pressures
15.   Settlements within and adjoining the reserve put great strain on natural resources.
(Peculiar to this site is the inability of PA authorities to deal directly with tea estates, as
they are considered an organized industry beyond the mandate of the Forest Department.)



85                              Annex 6
16.   Compounded by timber and fuelwood collection (for day-to-day needs and for selling
to tea estates), crop cultivation disturbs and degrades habitat. Feeding 105,000 head of cattle
on PA vegetation furthers degradation and invasion by weeds. Crop depredation by elephants
and other ungulates causes conflict between local people and forest managers. Ivory poaching
has recently become a major threat to the elephants.
17.   Local people collect a wide variety of non-timber forest products - bamboo, cane,
fruits, seeds, simul floss, Dioscoria tubers, edible and decorative mushrooms, resins - with
little regard for future supplies.
18.   Seventy-three fixed-demand licensees and 181 other individuals (including
residents of forest villages) have encroached onto Reserve forest lands to establish 300 ha
of orange orchards.
19.   Forestry operations have had significant impact on native biodiversity with large areas
being logged, primarily for sal-wood railway sleepers, and about 28% of the area planted with
teak. Mining dolomite from a 12-ha site within the PA is causing major disturbance, siltation
and pollution.
20.   Flooding occurs and rivers change course every year, damaging large areas and often
destroying critical habitats.
Social Considerations
21.   Since 1991 PA authorities have been using Project Tiger funding for
ecodevelopment activities that include crop protection measures, land improvement,
fuelwood plantations, energy conservation efforts and education programs. Sixteen
Ecodevelopment Committees have been established in the project area, which also comes
under a JFM Government Order. Villagers and the Forest Department jointly operate
several Forest Protection Comrnmittees.
22.   Authorities plan to relocate a number of forest villages, with their consent, during
the course of the project period. Currently, officials are discussing relocation of one forest
village from the reserve. The terms of agreement include provisions for each household to
receive one hectare of irrigated land plus housing outside the reserve plus access to forest
land, while remaining outside the panchayat system for the time being. PA authorities plan
to raise fodder/fruit plantations on the vacated land. Two other forest villages are in more
preliminary stages of discussing relocation.
23.   The nature of planned ecodevelopment activities raises a number of key social
issues which need to be addressed prior to implementation. The effectiveness of the
microplanning process will clearly be hindered by the absence of NGOs in the area.
Relocation plans for settlements currently within the PA require further elaboration,
particularly for those settlements at higher elevations, and for fixed demand holdings
where the security of tenure is unclear. As employment opportunities with the Forest
Department decrease, the feasibility and appropriateness of alternative income generation
itrategies, especially for the landless, tribals and women, will require considerable
ttention.



86                              Annex 6
Gir National Park
Location
24.   Gir National Park is located in the Kathiawar Peninsula in Saurashtra, Gujarat. The PA
covers 1,412 sq. km. of which 258 sq. km is National Park and the remaining area is sanctuary.
25.   The rugged, hilly terrain ranges in altitude from 152 m to 528 m. Most of the 100-cm
mean annual rainfall comes from the southwest monsoon; temperatures range from 100 to 440
C. There are seven perennial rivers, four man-made irrigation tanks, and 18 year-round tanks.
26.   Though the entire park is considered semi-arid, a sharp decrease in rainfall from west
to east is reflected in the vegetation, with very dry teak forest in the west giving way to dry
deciduous scrub and dry savanna forest in the east. Significantly different vegetation grows in
narrow bands along the rivers. A limited area was planted with teak in 1961-62. About 400
species of flowering plants have been reported.
People
27.   Over 70,000 people lived in the intended project area as of the 1981 census. In
1981, 1,491 (1%) were Scheduled Tribes and 7,486 (6%) were Scheduled Castes. PA
authorities have identified a population of 72,000 within a 2-km radius of park boundaries,
in 97 revenue villages, to participate in ecodevelopment. Within the park itself are 54
pastoral settlements or 'nesses' inhabited by 2,540 Maldharis; 14 forest villages, with a
population of 4,500 residents including 239 Siddis, a Scheduled Tribe of African origin;
and three temple complexes occupied by 65 people.
28.   Neighboring villagers mostly grow groundnuts, cotton, sorghum and sugarcane
and raise livestock. Especially during the monsoon, grazing territory lies primarily within
the PA.
29.   Maldharis, with settlement and grazing rights in the park, raise livestock and sell
milk products (usually clarified butter and milk for those with access to markets). Between
1972 and 1986, 580 Maldhari families were resettled from the area currently defined as
national park to new locations, with land for cultivation, on the periphery of the PA. Some
have continued in livestock production, while others have taken up wage labor.
30.   The temple complexes of Kankai, Banej and Tulsishyam occupy 3,522 ha of land
in the protected area, some of which is given over to cultivation, and 20 ha of which is
leased from the Forest Department. Though the park is closed to tourists during the
monsoons, pilgrims tend to visit throughout the year. 1992-93 saw some 80,000 pilgrims,
mainly from Gujarat, accommodated in a variety of temple-owned, private and state-
government facilities.
31.   In 1992-93, 45,000 tourists came to see the animals. The Forest Department
operates a guesthouse in Sasan, and an Interpretative Park for tourists in Devalia. Locals
benefit from tourism by operating several small lodges in Sasan and are employed as
guides.



87                               Annex 6
Biodiversity Values
32.   In the 64,000 sq. km of the Saurashtra peninsula, Gir remains the only patch of natural
forest. Its unique importance is as the only home for the last surviving Asian lions in the wild,
currently thought to have recovered from fewer than 50 to an estimated population of 284. .
33.   The highly productive grass-and-shrub landscape supports large numbers of grazing
animals including four-homed antelope and Indian gazelle as well as chital, sambar and nilgai.
Large carnivores include leopards and striped hyena as well as lions; noteworthy smaller
mammals include the rusty spotted cat.
34.   Also notable are the lesser florican and a rich assortment of birds of prey (especially
during migration) and substantial populations of marsh crocodile and starred tortoise. Smaller
mammals, lower vertebrates and invertebrates have not been studied.
Biodiversity Pressures
35.   In the past, Gir NP has experienced considerable trouble from timber smuggling
and animal poaching. With the active cooperation of local people, much of this illicit
activity has been successfully controlled. The cumulative effect of human activities such as
logging, plantations, fire and grazing has resulted, however, in the dominance of thorny and
fire-hardy plant species and an abundance of weeds. Moreover, the total conversion of
surrounding land to intensive agriculture has isolated the ecosystem.
36.   Continuing issues concern the impact of local demand for grazing and fuelwood;
crop loss caused by wild animals; loss of livestock, and human lives, to lions.
37.   Residents of 54 Maldhari settlements and 14 forest villages within the park and
villagers from around the protected area maintain 100,000 head of cattle on Gir's vegetation.
Human settlement and the intense grazing pressure have severely impacted biodiversity, though
the ungulate population rebounded when some of the grazier community resettled outside the
PA.
38.   Traffic: four public roads that pass through the PA are heavily used by pilgrims,
tourists and the local populace; three temple complexes are located on disputed lands inside the
PA; the number of tourists is increasing; and a railway line passes through the PA. Increased
human traffic increases the chance of fire.
39.   The singularity of the Asiatic lion population leaves it extremely vulnerable to local
catastrophe, such as drought and disease. This isolation is relatively recent, since lions were
recorded in adjoining states even early this century. There are plans to translocate lions from
Gir, to create a second population.
Social Considerations
40.   The Maldharis have a long and close association with the fauna and flora of Gir.
While many have moved away from their traditional grazing areas and some from their
traditional livelihoods, their indigenous knowledge of the area could play an important role
in managing the PA for biodiversity conservation.
41.   Key social issues in Gir concern the process of relocation, the implications of
tenure for forest villagers and the relationship between PA authorities and local people.



88                               Annex 6
Long-term, the Forest Department has a relocation plan for another 361 families presently
living in the Sanctuary. Some families appear willing to relocate in order to obtain better
economic returns by selling milk rather than milk products, and to gain access to health
and education facilities. A key factor in successful voluntary relocation of Maldhari
graziers will be the ability to provide alternatives that provide facilities and income equal
or superior to current conditions. The inability of forest villagers to obtain credit increases
pressures on PA authorities to change tenure status or provide income-generating
activities.
42.   In addition to small-scale agriculture and NTFP-collecting, (see Table 1), forest
villagers continue to work in the shrinking forestry operations. As they lease their land
from the Forest Department for 15-year periods, they are unable to obtain mortgages in
order to raise funds for investment and are asking the Forest Department to convert leased
land to revenue areas. Although this demand clearly raises concern, PA management has
no plans to relocate forest villages.
Nagarhole National Park
Location
43.   Nagarhole National Park, in the Kodagu and Mysore districts of Karnataka state,
covers an area of 643.4 sq. km, with a core zone of 192 sq. km. and a tourism zone of 110 sq.
km.
44.   The mostly undulating terrain ranges in altitude from 701 to 959 meters. Annual rainfall
runs about 177 cm, and temperatures range from 170 to 300 C. Sources of water include five
large perennial rivers and about 40 artificial water tanks, many used year-round.
45.   Forests dominate the area: southern tropical moist mixed deciduous forests, southern
tropical dry deciduous forests, southern tropical semi-evergreen forests (found only in patches
in the westem shelter parts of the park), teak plantations and, in the eastem parts of the park,
scrub forests resulting from heavy human pressure on the original dry deciduous forests. Small
areas of low-lying swamps, locally known as 'hadlus', are a unique and critical habitat,
providing ungulates with water and forage during the summer.
46.   Although some elements reflect its Western Ghat classification, the Nagarhole National
Park resembles the Deccan Peninsula biogeographic zone in topography, vegetation and animal
life. Larger carnivores include tiger, leopard and wild dog; large ungulates include gaur, sambar
and chital. Four-homed antelope are found in the drier parts. Numerous bodies of water
support a rich assortment of birds such as the lesser whistling teal, adjutant stork, osprey,
shahin falcon and spoonbill. Marsh crocodiles are also important. Lower vertebrates and
invertebrates have not been studied at all.
People
47.   The total population in the project area was 72,652 as of the 1981 census. Over
6,888 (8%) belong to Scheduled Tribes of Jenu Kurbas, Betta Kurbas, Hakki-Pikki and
Yeravas, who live inside the park along with five non-tribal families. Within a 5-km radius



89                              Annex 6
of the boundaries PA authorities have identified a population of 66,507, in 96 revenue
villages, to participate in project activities. Findings from a PRA carried out in 14 of these
villages also identified Gowdas, Lingayaths, Odigas and Kodavas, as prominent social
groups in the area.
48.   The tribal groups who live in the park collect NTFP such as honey and fruit for
their own consumption (see Table 1) to supplement their income from labor at nearby
coffee estates and forestry operations. Some groups have already been resettled from the
core zone to areas they are no longer permitted to cultivate. Tribal groups still grow 40-50
ha of ragi and paddy in the park, however, supplemented by wild-collected foods. Non-
tribal people cultivate another 10 ha in a revenue enclave. On the fringes of the park are
settlements mainly of Odigas who cultivate 300 ha of land leased annually from the Forest
Department, and 300 ha of land for which they have tax receipts but no pattas. In addition
the tribal Yeravas encroach on another 300 ha of forest land in the north west.
49.   Outside the park, the primary occupation is agriculture. Most farmers grow ragi,
jowar, paddy and livestock; those with larger holdings grow tobacco and cotton as cash
crops. Marginal cultivators and the landless earn money by working at nearby coffee
estates and forestry operations, and collect NTFP.
50.   Nagarhole has demarcated two tourism zones. PA authorities provide
accommodation near the eastern side, where a complex has also been built by government
and leased to a private company for operations. On the southern boundary the Karnataka
state government operates a lodge near the Kabini Reservoir. Approximately 21,000
people from the region visited the park in 1992-1993. Local people gain little from
tourism other than the opportunity to labor in guesthouses.
Biodiversity Values
51.   The most important biodiversity value is the large predator/prey system. Herd densities
are amongst the highest in India, comparable even to the African savanna. The abundance of
small carnivores and water birds, again one of the highest in protected-area forests, is another
notable feature.
52.   As part of the 4500-sq. km Nilgiri Biosphere Reserve, Nagarhole is a significant
component of one of the largest conservation areas in India, and a central link in the seasonal
migrations of elephants to Bandipur National Park in the southeast and Wynad Wildlife
Sanctuary in the southwest.
Biodiversity Pressures
53.   The high density of wildlife in the park and the varied activities of the large human
population on its periphery result in problems for PA authorities and local people.
Important concerns include losing crop and livestock production, and human lives, to
elephants and other animals (somewhat contained by elephant-proof trenching); meeting
local demand for fuelwood (particularly for curing tobacco), timber and grazing (because
access to park resources is restricted); losing income because collecting NTFP is now
prohibited; poaching of elephants for ivory; and increasing tourism and tourism facilities in
the area.



90                                Annex 6
54.   Agriculture inside the park threatens wildlife as swamps are drained and converted to
growing fields. About 5,000 head of cattle graze inside the park, mostly in the buffer zone,
leading to habitat degradation and weed invasion.
55.   Ninety sq. km of the park are planted with teak; large grazing animals may survive, but
biodiversity in general suffers.
56.   Considerable areas in the eastern parts are heavily degraded due to human pressures.
Ecorestoration efforts are going on in these areas with the planting of native species.
57.   The dry deciduous forest is very prone to fire during the dry season. In recent years,
major fires have caused extensive damage.
Social Considerations
58.   Tribal groups in the park have strong cultural attachments to their forests.
Traditional livelihoods and social organization depend on forest ecosystems, and forest
resources are key to local belief systems.
59.   Under the terms of the Indian Wildlife Act (1972) settlements within a national
park are considered illegal. PA authorities had therefore proposed that between 1993 and
1996, 1550 households currently residing within the park be relocated to forest areas on
the periphery. To date no relocation has occurred since funds for the approved plan have
yet to be released by the Government of India. A local human-rights NGO (Fedina Vikas)
has expressed concern over the relocation process, especially as it affects tribal non-
cultivators. Evidence suggests that they may be more willing to relocate, however, than
those who own or have access to arable land. Redefining park boundaries could be more
effective than resettlement as a means of resolving illegal habitation by farmers.
Meanwhile, plans to continue with relocation have been halted in order to gather
information on the extent of consent and possible terms of agreement, and to carry out a
small-scale anthropological and ecological study on tribal groups and their relationship
with natural resources in the area.
60.   A critical social issue in Nagarhole concerns tribal groups in the PA. The
establishment of a PA has restricted access to forest resources and affected traditional
livelihoods. Tribal groups are being incorporated into the larger commercial economy
outside the PA, as they pursue wage labor in nearby estates for necessary supplemental
income. Questions arise over the loss of indigenous knowledge and tribal cultural heritage,
and their ability to integrate successfully into a cash economy. The issue of current limited
access to PA resources, and possible further restrictions resulting from the new Forest
Conservation Act, will continue to strain relationships between PA authorities and other
stakeholders.



91                              Annex 6
Palamau Tiger Reserve
Location
61.   Palamau Tiger reserve, located in the Palamau district in southwest Bihar, is 1026 sq.
km. in area. The core zone encompasses 213 sq. kin, 766 sq. krn of the buffer zone form the
Palanau Wildlife Sanctuary, and 47 sq. km is reserve forest. Some 29 sq. km of this area is
designated as a tourism zone. An area of 225 sq. km covering the current core area plus a
portion of the sanctuary is the intended area of the proposed Betla National Park. In the
southwest, the PA shares a border with the state of Madhya Pradesh.
62.   The terrain of the PA is undulating and hillier to the south, with altitudes ranging
between 300 m and 1140 m. Most of the annual 105-cm rainfall arrives with the southwest
monsoon; temperatures range from 10 C in winter to 480 C in summer. Only one river and a
few water tanks provide water year-round.
63.   The PA falls within the Deccan Peninsula biogeographic zone, in the Chhotanagpur
Plateau province. Forests are largely deciduous and, especially in the moister south, dominated
by sal. Vegetation is classified as moist and dry peninsular sal forests; northern secondary moist
and dry mixed deciduous forests; dry bamboo brakes; teak plantations; and grassy blanks
(discarded shifting cultivation areas).
64.   The large predator/prey system includes tiger, leopard, striped hyena, wolf, gaur,
sambar, barking deer and chital. More than 170 species of birds have been recorded. Lower
vertebrates and invertebrates have not been studied at all.
People
65.   Three villages (pop. 630, BSFD 1990) are found in the core zone; most of these
people are Scheduled Tribes of Oraon, Kherwar, Korwa, Munda and Brijia. According to
1991 census data, 30,795 people, in 102 villages, are located within legally excluded
enclaves in the sanctuary buffer area. Another 89 villages within a 5-km radius of the
sanctuary have been selected to participate in ecodevelopment activities, to give a total
population of 75,000 targeted for this project. While exact demographic figures are not
available, 1991 census data for the larger surrounding population of 99,907 indicate that
56% belong to Scheduled Tribes and 15% to Scheduled Castes. In addition to those
already mentioned, Scheduled Tribes in the area include Chero, Parahia and Birhor. The
target population includes 27 villages in and around the western portion of the sanctuary
which will be submerged and whose people will be resettled if the Kutku dam is built as
planned.
66.   Since forestry operations have been cut back, forest dwellers have become
increasingly dependent on agriculture and other forms of wage labor made available by PA
authorities. As with many similar settlements in India, security of tenure depends on
administrative decision-making by the Forest Department, which usually allows limited
access to grazing, fuelwood and small timber. Villages in the sanctuary are legally
excluded from the core zone but retain rights, subject to permission from the Forest



92                               Annex 6
Department, to grazing, fuelwood, small timber, some NTFP and the production of lac
and tussar on the payment of royalties. The primary occupation of villagers in the
sanctuary is crop and livestock production, with some supplemental income from PA
management activities.
67.   Agriculture is also the main occupation of the population residing in revenue
villages in the remaining project area. Similar access to forest resources is permitted, and
additional benefits have been made available by the management of new protected forests.
68.   Tourism is currently restricted to the northern portion of the reserve. There are
plans to extend it, however, into part of the intended national park and current sanctuary.
The reserve had approximately 35,000 visitors in 1992, with October being the most
popular month. The extent of local participation in tourism is not known, but is unlikely to
extend beyond the provision of vehicles and occasional employment as guides.
Biodiversity Values
69.   The most important and characteristic value this PA has to offer is its highly-diverse
large predator/prey animal community, which includes a large population of elephants. The
fairly extensive and not severely-disturbed sal that covers most of the southern parts is among
the best forest in the state of Bihar. Several plants used in traditional medicine grow here.
Biodiversity Pressures
70.   Annual census estimates of larger mammals indicate that many species have increased
in number since 1987, while none have declined. Agriculture and subsistence gathering by
nearly 630 tribal people, however, and grazing by their nearly 700 head of cattle, strain the
resources of the core zone.
71.   Timber-smuggling and the ongoing extraction of bamboo and non-timber forest
products are a major source of disturbance and degradation in the buffer zone. 180 villages in
and around the buffer zone, with a cattle population of about 85,000, place heavy demands on
fuelwood, timber and fodder. Farmers resent crop and livestock losses due to predation.
Humans often cause forest fires, which destroy some 1.3% of the PA every year, degrading
natural forests and hampering regeneration in degraded areas.
72.   The Kutku Dam of the North Koel Multipurpose Hydroelectric Project, which
would flood 15 villages (of which 5 are within the tiger reserve), and affect access to
another 12 villages (of which 8 are within the tiger reserve), could indirectly threaten
Palamau. A ten-point action plan regarding relocation resulting from the Kutku Dam
would, according to PA officials and NGOs, prevent encroachment on the PA, but has yet
to be implemented. The Water Resources Department has not yet met the conditions in
the action plan. If nevertheless the dam proceeds, the Forest Department is concerned that
displaced villagers will seriously encroach on the reserve. Another possible area to be
submerged, the Auranga Reservoir in the western part of the reserve, also raises problems
of resettlement, but is currently only in an exploratory stage.



93                               Annex 6
Social Considerations
73.   No information is available on sites of cultural significance in the project area.
However, tribal groups are likely to have strong cultural associations with forest
ecosystems, which supply key aspects of local indigenous belief systems.
74.   In 1984 a relocation plan for the three forest villages located in the core zone was
prepared and potential sites selected by villagers. Currently the PA has no plans for
relocation.
Pench Tiger Reserve
Location
75.   Located in the Seoni and Chindwara districts of Madhya Pradesh, Pench Tiger Reserve
covers an area of 757 sq. kmi, with a core zone (intended national park) of 293 sq. km, a
tourism zone (intended national park) of 55 sq. km., a wildlife sanctuary of 118 sq. km and 308
sq. km of reserve and protected forests.
76.   The PA covers the southem lower ranges of the Satpura Hills and forms the catchment
for the Pench River, which runs through the center of the reserve. Rolling terrain includes hills
up to 650 m. Annual rainfall, mostly from the southwest monsoon, is about 120 cm;
temperatures range from 2.7C in winter to 47.60C in summer. Most streams and rivers are
seasonal; the main source of water during dry months is the Totladoh Reservoir, in the south
central part of the PA, formed as part of the Pench Hydel Project in 1990.
77.   As part of the Deccan Peninsula biogeographic zone, the reserve has extensive stands
of the dry deciduous teak and mixed forests typical of the central Indian highlands, though
much of the teak has been drowned. The area has been worked and subjected to shifting
cultivation in the past.
78.   The more open woodlands and savanna-type habitat support many herbivores and their
predators. Nearly 40 species of mammals and 168 species of birds have been recorded. Lower
vertebrates and invertebrates have not been studied.
People
79.   The 1981 census counted 50,000 people in the intended project area (99 revenue
villages), of whom Scheduled Tribes, primarily Gonds and their sub-divisions, comprise
46% and Scheduled Castes, 8%. Other social groups found in the area are Patels (usually
land-owners), Kirars and Ahirs (a Scheduled Caste). There are no villages within the
intended national park boundaries. Findings from the PRA carried out in over 10 villages
around the national park suggest that 80% of families suffer from varying degrees of
poverty, and that most of these families belong to Scheduled Tribes.
80.   For villagers living in and around the PA, agriculture and livestock production are
the primary occupation, with wheat, soybean and maize as the major crops and vegetable
production. Since many are marginal cultivators, and 45% of the employable workforce
does not have access to land, employment in forestry operations, wage labor, NTFP



94                               Annex 6
collection (for food and supplemental income, see Table 1) and fishing are also important
sources of income. Villages on the south-eastern border (Seoni district) tend to be more
dependent on forest resources for both food and income. Scheduled Tribes and other
forest-fringe dwellers also have nistar rights, which subsidize access to forest resources
(primarily fuelwood).
81.   At present, visitors are allowed in a tourism zone in the eastern section of the
intended park, but future plans include another entry point in the southwest. Visits to the
reserve dropped dramatically from approximately 3,000 to 1,000 in 1992-93, when entry
was restricted to petrol vehicles. The limited accommodation available helps keep visitor
numbers low. Opportunities for local participation are restricted to occasional employment
as guides for visitors, a policy which the Forest Department hopes to promote further.
Biodiversity Values
82.   Although endemism and species richness per se are low (as is typical of Central Indian
highland regions), the PA maintains regional connectivity that is critical to the large
predator/prey system, by providing access to Kanha National Park through Rukhad forests.
Biodiversity Pressures
83.   Extensive harvesting of teak through the early 1900s drastically altered the original
vegetation in most of the forest. Grazing and fuelwood collection continue to degrade large
areas in the buffer zone. The core zone has been free of such impacts for many decades,
allowing restoration.
84.   There are no villages in the national park area, but with one in the sanctuary and a large
population on the periphery, human pressures continue to have a major impact on biodiversity:
(a)    Forest fires, at a rate of about 5 sq. km per year, degrade forests and prevent
regeneration.
(b)    Overgrazed areas have been invaded by weeds.
(c)    Crop depredation by chital, nilgai and wild boar is a major source of conflict
between villagers and forest managers.
85.   Many issues center around limits on access to forest resources brought about by
the establishment of the national park (grazing is still allowed in parts of the sanctuary):
NTFP collection, especially the extensive collection of tendu patta for cheroot production;
antler collection; fisheries program in the reservoir and restrictions on fishing (and poaching in
response to outside-agency control of irrigation tanks and fisheries); declining employment
opportunities in forestry operations. Water shortage is a problem.
Social Considerations
86.   Ecodevelopment efforts funded by Project Tiger currently extend to seven villages
and include irrigation improvements, pasture development and the provision of drinking
water.
87.   Relocation of villages inside the proposed National Park was completed in 1994,
with the relocation of 27 households from Chhedia. Under the terms agreed, each



95                               Annex 6
household received 2.5 ha of unirrigated revenue land, housing, access to forest resources
plus employment opportunities in forestry operations. Forest Department officials
estimated that the process incurred expenses of Rs 49,000 per family. Forest Department
officials continue to support earlier relocated villages, providing employment opportunities
in forestry activities and general infrastructure.
88.   Key social issues in Pench include finding appropriate mechanisms for the active
participation of marginal social groups, such as women, landless and Scheduled Tribes, in
the microplanning process. The absence of NGOs able to participate in microplanning and
larger-scale monitoring activities is a concern. As access to forest resources and
employment decreases, successful alternative-income generating strategies will have to
adequately address the economic needs of those concerned without undermining their
cultural heritage. More information is required on local indigenous knowledge and cultural
associations with the PA.
89.   Data on cultural associations with the reserve is very limited, although information
on Gonds exists on a more general level for the state. Local people consider the Pench
River an important site for performing birth and death rites, and local tribal groups
celebrate several festivals in the PA.
Periyar Tiger Reserve
Location
90.   The Periyar Tiger Reserve, located in the Idukki district of Kerala, covers an area of
777 sq. km, of which 350 sq. km is the core zone (intended national park), 377 sq. km is
sanctuary buffer zone and 50 sq. km is a sanctuary tounsm zone.
91.   In the southern half of the Western Ghat mountain range, the PA encompasses one of
India's 18 'biodiversity hot spots'. Situated at a general elevation of about 1,000 m (the highest
peak is 2,119 m), the hilly terrain gives rise to perennial and seasonal streams and rivers and
collects water for power generation in the Periyar reservoir. The area receives an annual rainfall
of about 250-3 50 cm, from the southwest and northeast monsoons; temperatures.
92.   Typical of the Western Ghat biogeographic province to which it belongs, the
vegetation consists mostly of closed forest, dominated by tropical wet evergreen and moist
deciduous forests and often including large areas of bamboo brakes. Montane grasslands take
over above 1500 m. The wet evergreen forests are most important in terms of biodiversity; the
more open moist deciduous forests host a large predator/prey system.
People
93.   PA authorities and national consultants (IIPA) identified a population of 225,000
(1981 census) within 2-km of the reserve for inclusion in the project. However, given the
limited duration of the current phase of the project, project planners need to reduce the
target population to a more manageable size. A revised target population of 58,144 would
select villages within the 2-km radius. Of these, 25% belong to Scheduled Castes and 4%
to Scheduled Tribes.



96                               Annex 6
94.   At present there are four settlements, total population 3,856, in the reserve. Three
(pop. 2,036) are tribal settlements of Mannans, Paliyans, Uralis and MalaArayans,
resettled from the core zone in the 1950s. The fourth settlement (pop. 1,820) is of landless
families given land in 1962 under the "Grow More Food Scheme". There are no plans to
relocate these groups who resettled just 30-40 years ago.
95.   Tribals living within the reserve pursue a variety of livelihood strategies. In the
case of Mannans, incomes often fluctuate dramatically, with 60% of the population being
seasonally poor. Fishing provides their primary source of income, supplemented by
cultivating pepper, collecting honey and resin and working for wages at nearby estates.
96.   Paliyan tribals sell fuelwood and honey and work in forestry operations, in addition
to farming. Urali tribals grow cash crops such as cardamon, oranges and coffee, in
addition to staple foods. Similarly, MalaArayans are agriculturists growing cash crops of
rubber, coffee and pepper as well as collecting NTFP (see Table 1). None of the resettled
tribal groups have title to the land they occupy and cultivate.
97.   Outside the reserve, in addition to working individual agricultural holdings, local
people earn wages at tea, coffee, cardamom and rubber estates. Households are not
clustered in traditional villages or hamlets but scattered throughout the landscape. Land is
cultivated intensively, producing both staple foods and cash crops. Some encroachment
has occurred on the northern boundary of the buffer zone.
98.   Periyar Tiger Reserve is a very popular destination for tourists and pilgrims.
During 1992-1993 an estimated 350,000 tourists and 30 million (from Forest Department
Plan; IIPA estimates 10 million) pilgrims visited parts of the reserve. The negative effects
of such huge numbers intensify as they cluster around river trips, popular driving routes
and the Sabarimala Shrine.
99.   Local people earn more from tourism as they establish tea-shops and lodges on the
periphery to serve visitors. Pilgrims also provide local economic opportunities, mostly as a
market for fuelwood rustled from the reserve.
100.  The temple dedicated to Lord Ayyappa at Sabarimala and, to a lesser extent, the
Mangaladevi temple, are important religious sites attracting large numbers of pilgrims
from the region and elsewhere. Tribal groups, particularly those residing on the fringes of
the reserve, also have strong cultural associations with forest areas, with forest resources
forming key components of indigenous belief systems.
Biodiversity Values
101.  About 5,000 of India's 15,000 species of flowering plants are found in Periyar's
expanse of wet evergreen forests (often called 'rainforests'). More than 150 new species and
15 new genera have been described in the last 30 years (Nair & Daniel, 1986). About 60
genera, mostly monotypic, and 2,100 species are endemic to Western Ghats. Species richness
is especially high among bryophytes, pteridophytes, orchids and some select families.
102.  The wet evergreen forests also harbor a rich and endemic fauna., particularly among
lower vertebrates. Of 205 species of amphibians reported in India, some 120 are from the
Western Ghats and 85 are endemic. Large proportions of whole groups of amphibians are



97                               Annex 6
endemic; for example, 14 out of India's 17 species of limbless amphibians (Caesilians). Some
groups of reptiles, such as lizards, show similar propensities. Al 33 species of burrowing
uropeltid snakes in India are from the Western Ghats. Among fishes, nearly 60 species are
endemic to the Western Ghats.
103.  Species richness among birds and mammals isalso high with most of the species in the
peninsula represented. Endemism is largely confined to smaller mammals such as the Ijon-tailed
macaque, Nilgiri langur and the stripenecked mongoose. About 15 of 560 species of birds are
endemic.
104.  Available information on invertebrates indicates great species richness and endemism,
much of which remains to be documented. Western Ghats forests exhibit great richness and
endemism among butterflies (nearly 350 species) and moths (nearly 700 species) -the second
highest count in India.
105.  Apart from supporting a rich and endemic flora and fauna, the Periyar Tiger Reserve
also supports large populations of many species found elsewhere in India. The large
predator/prey system is complex. There is a large population of elephants. The small carnivore
community is also well-represented, with 15 species.
106.  Periyar's forests connect with others outside its boundaries, especially to the south and
southeast. Although the Western Ghats region has one of the best systems of protected areas in
India (Rodgers & Panwar, 1985), the forests are highly fragmented. Periyar plays a key role in
maintaining the regional connectivity that ensures seasonal migration, dispersal, and genetic
flow of large- and medium-sized mammals, and birds.
107.  The area is the source of well-known and widely-used spices such as cardamom, black
pepper and cinnamon. Other plants are used in traditional and modern medicine, and in
industry.
Biodiversity Pressures
108.  Critical environmental issues for PA authorities concern the impacts of large
numbers of visitors and of commercial forestry within the reserve. Past investments in a
26-sq. km reservoir and in 55-sq. km of eucalyptus plantations are a significant presence. Very
few humans are in residence. Wildlife monitoring during the past few years shows no reduction
in numbers of large carnivores and ungulates. There are localized problems associated with
crop depredation by wild animals and demand for natural resources, particularly grazing
and fuelwood. Finally, PA authorities face a range of illicit activities such as timber-
smuggling, animal-poaching, NTFP collection and marijuana cultivation within the project
area.
109.  Threats to biodiversity include:
(a)    Pilgrimage: millions enter the reserve every year between November and June
to visit the Sabarimala Temple. Tree-cutting for fuelwood and mninor
construction needs, accumulation of solid wastes, accidental fires and
disturbance to wildlife are serious problems.
(b)    Tourism: in the absence of alternative energy sources, fuelwood needs for
large numbers of tourists are mostly being met from within the PA.



98                               Annex 6
(c)    Hindustan Newsprints Ltd: the very existence of 55-sq. km of eucalyptus
plantation has a negative impact on the PA, since monocultures support only a
fraction of the native biodiversity. Felling operations disturb animals and often
lead to poaching.
(d)    Ganja cultivation is a major threat, because forests are often clear-felled for this
purpose and cultivators often engage in poaching. It is also a serious law-and-
order problem.
(e)    NTFP: a wide variety of non-timber forest products such as cinnamon,
dammar and honey are collected indiscriminately. Some of these activities have
direct impact; harvesting cinnamon bark often kills the tree. Indirect impacts
include accidental and intentional fires.
(f)    Fire: dry-season (December to May), forest fires are often man-made. They
affect mostly grasslands and the drier, often degraded, forests, hampering
regeneration.
Social Considerations
110.  Key social issues in Periyar concern the difficulties faced by tribal groups and the
management of cultural sites. Mannan tribals experience seasonal poverty due to an
inability to manage large amounts of cash influxes from cash crop sales. Coordinated
efforts are clearly required to address this problem and help integration into the larger
economy. Given increasing restrictions on access to forest resources, alternative
livelihoods for traditional forest-dwellers will need to be both culturally sensitive and
economically feasible. There is also a need to manage cultural sites and visitors in the PA
in a manner which would minimize negative environmental impacts and increase support
for biodiversity conservation.
Ranthambhore Tiger Reserve
Location
111.  Located in the Sawai Madhopur district in southeastern Rajasthan, the Ranthambhore
Tiger Reserve covers an area of 1334.6 sq. km, consisting of a national park of 392.5 sq. km,
(274.5 core zone and 118 sq. km buffer zone) the Sawai Man Singh Sanctuary (127.6 sq. km),
Keladevi Sanctuary (674 sq. kin), Kawalji Garne Reserve (7.6 sq. kin) and some reserved and
protected forests (132.9 sq. km).
112.  The Aravallis and Vindhyan mountain ranges meet in this area, presenting two different
geological formations. Altitude ranges from 215 m to 507 m, temperatures range between 40
and 470 C, and the annual rainfall is about 80 cm. There are six lakes and three perennial
streams within the PA.
113.  Classified as being in the semi-arid biogeographic zone, Gujrat-Rajwara province, the
dominant vegetation in the reserve is tropical dry deciduous and dry mixed deciduous forest.
Human impact in many areas has reduced the original vegetation to dry deciduous scrub and



99                              Annex 6
grasslands, the latter presently having important wildlife values. The vegetation in the plateau is
grassland and open woodland, dominated by drought-resistant species such asAnogeissus
pendula, Acacia catechu and Boswellia serrata
114.  The rich assemblage of large predators/prey includes tiger, leopard, striped hyena,
chital, sambar, nilgai and Indian gazelle. Other species of interest are caracal ruddy mongoose,
several water birds and marsh crocodile. Nothing is known about the lower vertebrates and
invertebrates.
People
115.  National consultants identified 211,695 people within 10 km of the reserve to be
included in the project. Considering limits on time and facilities for the current phase of
the project, this number has been reduced to 64,000.
116.  WWF-India (1994) identified 85,000 people, in 85 villages, for possible inclusion
in ecodevelopment activities. Four more villages, with a population of 1,210, are on or
very close to national park boundaries; another 3,067 people live in Kailadevi and Sawai
Mansingh sanctuaries. Project activities would need to address major urban settlements
near reserve boundaries, such as Sawai Madhopur, Khandar and Karauli (combined
population, 82,000). Data on the reduced target population indicate that 13% are Berwas
(a Scheduled Caste) and 32% Meenas, the dominant Scheduled Tribe. Other groups
include Gujjars (25%) and Malis (15%). (Khan, 1994)
117.  Most area villagers live on crop and livestock production, supplemented by some
income from NTFP (see Table 1). Agricultural villages occupy revenue land and have
variable access to communally-held forest land and various types of state forests. Primarily
pastoralist communities of Gujjars keep buffaloes and cattle, and depend economically on
the sale of milk products. The reserve, and particularly the outlying sanctuaries, lie on the
migratory routes of nomadic sheep herders. Tourism is becoming an increasingly
important activity for urban settlements, especially Sawai Madophur, although it is unclear
whether local residents capture much of the tourist expenditure.
118.  Approximately 29,000 tourists and 180,000 pilgrims visited the reserve during
1992-93. Most tourists base their visits in Sawai Madhopur, where a number of private
and state hotels and guest-houses are run mostly by out-of-town entrepreneurs. PA
authorities have made efforts to increase local participation by training guides, whose
employment represents only a small part of tourist expenditure. Other opportunities for
local people appear to be limited to employment in hotels and guest houses.
119.  Ranthambhore Tiger Reserve protects a significant cultural heritage in addition to
wildlife. Like the Kailadevi and Ganesh temples, which attract large numbers of pilgrims,
Ranthambhore Fort (built in 994 AD) has come to define the landscape around it.
Resettled villagers continue to visit places of religious significance associated with their
original village location.
120.  Twelve villages were resettled from the national park between 1976 and 1979.
Terms agreed at the time have gradually materialized; e.g., legal title to land and facilities
such as schools. There are proposals for relocation of four more villages, inhabited mainly
by Gujjars, from close to the park boundary. Two villages, Padra and Kuthkuli, have



100                              Annex 6
expressed some interest. As elsewhere, those without cultivable land appear to be more
willing to relocate than those with access to land. The other two villages, Indala and
Mohdungri have also reported some interest in moving if they receive land of their choice.
Biodiversity Values
121.  In undisturbed semi-arid areas, palatable grass and shrubs support one of the highest-
biomass livestock populations, although species diversity and endemismper se are low.
Ranthambhore, with its complex grazing system and rich assemblage of large predators/prey,
typifies its biogeographic zone. Pure stands ofAnogeissuspendula, characteristic of the
Aravilli Hill ranges, has almost disappeared from most of its range except the Ranthambhore
Tiger Reserve. As a forested hill tract, the reserve plays an important role in soil and water
conservation.
Biodiversity Pressures
122.  Not extensively worked in the past, the core zone remains free of the heavy human
pressure suffered by the rest of the PA in the present. Villagers and urban residents place
intense demand on natural resources in other zones, particularly for grazing and fuelwood,
which at present cannot be satisfied outside the reserve. As fuelwood requirements for
numerous villages and a few large towns are gathered from the PA, large areas are severely
degraded, affecting plant and animal communities.
123.  Nearly 250,000 head of cattle are seasonally dependent on resources in the PA, mostly
outside the core zone, further degrading large areas. Wildlife and livestock end up in direct
competition; native vegetation lacks time to regenerate; weeds invade. Meanwhile, some
villagers on the periphery report losing up to 30% of their crops to wild animals.
124.  Although poaching, often by the Moghia tribe, had been chronic to this area, in recent
years there has been a reported increase that especially threatens PA tigers.
125.  The increasing numbers of visitors to the reserve pose problems of PA
management, since tourists concentrate in the core zone, and pilgrims at temple sites.
Social Considerations
126.  Ranthambhore has a history of hostile relationships between local people and PA
authorities, problems of coordination among NGOs and PA authorities, delays in terms
and processes of resettlement, and increasing pressures on resources from growing urban
and rural populations. Outsider encroachment on village common lands removes that land
from use for fuelwood and fodder plantations. Indigenous and local knowledge can make
important contributions toward ecological restoration in the buffer zone and relieving the
pressures on the PA.



101                             Annex 7
Annex 7: Improved PA Management':
Overview
1.    Improved PA management would use specialist advice, studies, workshops,
associated travel costs, training, and staff to:
(a)   Improve PA planning processes and building capacity to
(i)   improve PA management plans
(ii)  incorporate PA concerns into regional planning and regulation
(b)   Protect and manage ecosystems and habitats within the PA to:
(i)   restore ecosystems and habitats
(ii)   control fire, poaching, and animals
(iii)   manage enterprise and visitor enclaves and
(c)   Upgrade PA amenities for field staff.
Improving PA Planning Processes
Strengthening PA Management Plans
2.    Context. Management plans exist for all seven project protected areas (PAs). They
usually cover a 5 to 10 year implementation period. However, most of these plans have
expired or will need updating in the next few years (see Annex 2). These plans are also not
as comprehensive as they ought to be; in particular they do not take fully into account the
links between PAs and the local people who depend on the resources contained within
them. In addition, PA plans are not adequately integrated into the broader ecological,
socioeconomic and regional sphere. Forest department staff have largely managed as PA
islands set aside from development
3.    Additions. Revision of PA plans would include, in addition to normal updating,
specific consideration of
(a)   More complete incorporation of ecological considerations in PA
management
(b)   Broadening participation and cooperation of local people and outside
groups
(c)   Incorporation of initiatives supported under other project components.
4.    Incorporation of Ecological Considerations. Management of ecological systems
within PAs requires an understanding and appreciation of ecological principles and
processes operating in and around the PA and the acceptance of the concept that PA
I
Guidelines subject to revision to reflect experience in practice. Revision will be documented through
exchanges of letters and comprehensive updating as needed.



102                             Annex 7
management is a specialized form of land use. The context of the project PAs gives scope
for improving ecological planning and management. Some specific issues for consideration
in PA planning are:
(a)   Rationalization of PA boundaries. Most PA boundaries and the
demarcation of core, buffer, tourism, and other use zones are largely
defined on administrative or legal bases. They often do not reflect
protection requirements for the full range of ecosystems or species in the
area. Ecological considerations include the protection of representative
samples of ecologically important habitats and migratory routes of far
ranging species, and the adequacy of the shape and size of PAs needed to
cover the entire range of botanical, ecological, and geomorphological
features. Ecological boundaries used as the basis for defining PA limits and
zoning may also increase the potential for maintaining and establishing links
or corridors between isolated wildlife populations whose members have
been fragmented by human interference and physical barriers.
Rationalization would also take into account the tenure rights of local
people (including customary tenure rights of tribals) living within the
protected areas. Currently there is very little information available for each
PA to provide a sufficient basis for an ecological approach to PA
management. The project would therefore support the preparation of
baseline ecosystems maps for each PA. These maps would include
information on the distribution and diversity of ecosystems within and
adjacent to the PAs. They would also include other information such as
geomorphological features, distribution of communication systems,
regional development features, location of villages, land use, and so forth.
They would be used for making decisions as to the management and zoning
of land within and outside the PAs. Boundary changes, if any, resulting
from the rationalization analysis would be envisaged as a one-time decision;
because continuing boundary changes could undermine regulatory
effectiveness.
(b)   Management of forests and other lands surrounding PAs. A crucial
element in conservation strategies is the protection of biodiversity outside
the PAs as well as inside. Reliance on PAs alone risks creating a siege
mentality rigorously protective of species and communities inside the
boundaries, while exposing those outside to practices that promote their
exploitation or destruction. Most of the project PAs are bordered by
reserve forests managed for timber, bamboo, and non-forest products, with
little or no consideration for the conservation of biodiversity. The project
would consider mutually enhancing ways to promote conservation in both
PAs and their surrounding areas. This would enable PA plans to
recommend improvements to operations in surrounding areas that would
enhance biological diversity and ecological conditions in buffer and fringe
zones. The plans would include workshops and technical support for the
review, development, and coordination of ecologically friendly guidelines



103                             Annex 7
to be incorporated into forest working plans and other land use operations
and mechanisms. PA authorities should coordinate with the territorial and
production arms of their respective forestry departments and other land
development agencies in developing and implementing the new guidelines.
(c)   Protection of ecosystems and habitats. More often than not, PAs are
managed with an emphasis on the conservation of the larger, charismatic
species found within the PA (tiger, elephant, leopard, lion, etc.). These
species are the more important, and often the most threatened species in
the PAs. However, specific strategies and management interventions are
necessary not only to protect the individual species, but to also preserve the
larger ecosystems in which they live, and to meet India's obligations under
international conventions (e.g., Ramsar). PA planning updates should
therefore emphasize an ecological approach with a view to managing the
totality of botanical and zoological species and ecosystems in the area,
including boundaries and linkages between ecosystems such as riparian
fringes, floodplains, and other similar habitats.
5.    Broadening Participation and Cooperation of Local People and Outside
Groups. Since ecodevelopment is considered to encompass all interactions between
people and PAs, the full range of options available to PA managers to enhance the inter-
relationships should be taken into consideration in PA planning.
(a)   Processes for stakeholder participation in decision making through
direct consultation, representation on committees, participation in
planning workshops, etc. People living in and around PAs are dependent
on PA resources and are the most affected by the establishment of a PA,
but are rarely invited to participate in decisions regarding its management.
This has often alienated PA neighbors. Similarly PAs have lost support and
face increased outside threats from other agencies and stakeholders who
have been left out of PA planning. PA planners would provide an
opportunity for these groups, including NGOs, to take part in the updating
of PA plans. Planning workshops and informal village-level meetings would
identify ways of involving local groups more directly in PA management..
(b)   Mitigation (within the PA boundaries) of negative impacts of PAs on
people. Damage to crops and livestock caused by wildlife in areas
surrounding PAs is a major cause of hostility towards PAs. Such hostility
will block effective village ecodevelopment programs if relations between
PAs and local people are not improved through measures to reduce the
impact of crop damage. The problems of crop damage would be discussed
as a supplement to the participatory microplanning of village
ecodevelopment. Measures for their mitigation could include research on
animal behavior, and the location of site-specific solutions to problems
within the PA boundaries in consultation with the affected people.
(c)   Winning cooperation of local people by sharing PA byproducts and
employment opportunities. Past experience has shown that PA relations



104                             Annex 7
with local inhabitants can be enhanced when people see the PA as
providing them with direct benefits and hav,e a long-term stake in sustaining
resources. Such opportunities exist. An interpretation of the Wildlife
Protection Act allows the chief wildlife warden of each state to restore
habitats within the PA to improve conditions for wildlife. If properly
structured and implemented, this provides for generous benefit sharing
arrangements of PA byproducts such as teak removal, employment,
cutting grass from firelines, sustainable NTFP collection, etc. These
benefits would be of mutual benefit to both the PA and local people and
forge cooperation. Similarly tribal villagers with intimate knowledge of the
PA can be given preference for employment as PA staff Employment
opportunities also exist in infrastructure construction, road maintenance,
anti-poaching programs, community protection groups, etc.
(d)   Developing cost and benefit sharing arrangements for PA enterprises.
New strategies for tourism and visitor management in PAs could also
provide direct benefits to local people and scope for broadening local
participation in management and benefit-sharing. Such opportunities could
include enterprise operation and ownership of tourism facilities, provision
of guide services, handicrafts, catering, etc. Revenue could be captured and
shared by designating a portion of entry fees, licenses, concessions,
royalties, commercial use of indigenous knowledge, and so forth to local
participants. Of particular importance to the project would be studies
aimed at ensuring financial sustainability of PAs beyond the life of the
project and at developing participatory ecotourism strategies.
(e)   Developing inter-agency linkages in support of PAs.. Alliances would
be forged through formal (state or PA-level coordinating committees,
planning workshops, etc.) and informal mechanisms. Such linkages have
several purposes.
(i)    Leveraging financial and political support. Agencies whose
work depends on the benefits derived from the protection of natural
areas can be supportive of the PA authority even when they are not
directly involved. Examples are links between the irrigation sector
that depends on the watershed value of the PA to support
downstream water development works, or the public and private
tourism development agencies that depend on PA resources for
attracting visitors. In some of the project PAs there are
opportunities for direct cooperation with these agencies to generate
resources and benefits for local people and thereby win support for
the PA. In Nagarhole, PA authorities and the Taj Group of Hotels
have a common interest in maintaining the health of the PA and
should work together to ensure the reduction of threats to the PA
and the protection of its resources
(ii)   Disseminating PA plans Political support is needed for adequate
funding. PA management plans would be widely circulated in a



105                             Annex 7
form and content that is easily understood by local people who tend
to see PAs as chunks of productive land that are legally
inaccessible.. Specific awareness and publicity programs should be
launched in each PA to gain support for conservation.
(iii)   Debating critical PA issues. Such issues are usually complex and
sociopolitical and can have such wide ranging repercussions, that a
resolution may lie beyond the scope of the PA manager. The
project establishes channels for ensuring wider discussion of these
issues that include PA planning workshops, inter-agency
coordination fora, special studies, etc. In resolving interagency
land-use conflicts and overlaps in planning, it is suggested that PA
management authorities strive to establish such a relationship within
the overall framework of the state-level coordinating committees.
PA management authorities should have at their disposal sufficient
resources to bring technical support for examining the conflicts and
defining mutually beneficial resolution of them based on scientific
study and analysis.
(iv)   Integrating implementation with efforts by different local
agencies and specialized groups. Channels of coordination,
collaboration, and information sharing would be created under the
project with research, education, and planning programs and NGO
networks to help harmonize activities. PA management authorities
should take the initiative in using these channels to ensure
complementarity of activities and a more effective deployment of
financial and manpower resources. For example, hydrological
investments could include the protection of reservoirs or catchment
areas that would cover a portion of the PA management costs.
Another possible result would be the modification of timber harvest
patterns in PA surroundings to reduce damage to the environment
or wildlife.
6.    Financial Sustainability Strategy. The project would support a state-level
strategy study on financial sustainability. For most states, it would not be politically
feasible to expect to adopt this strategy within the first two years of the project, so the PA
management plan would reflect the current status of the strategy. Terms of reference for
the strategy study, are included at the end of this annex.
7.    Incorporation of Initiatives Supported Under Other Project Components.
The revised PA plans would also incorporate project initiatives such as the integration of
PA concerns into regional plans (described below), the operation of village
ecodevelopment activities (Annex 8), environmental education and visitor management
(Annex 9), monitoring and research (Annex 10), project management(Annex 11),
environmental review (Annex 17) social assessment (Annex 18), and people in the PAs
(Annex 20).



106                              Annex 7
8.    Steps to Improve PA Management Plans. In order to address current
inadequacies and bring in new considerations for improving PA plans, the Wildlife
Institute of India (WII) would be contracted to review existing PA plans, develop draft
guidelines for plan update, organize a national workshop to consider the draft guidelines,
and provide training to PA staff for preparation of revised plans, (see terns of reference in
Annex 11). The project would also support interdisciplinary planning teams, PA-level
workshops, publicity for management plans, and arrangements for plan updating on a
continuing basis. The process would include the following steps
(a)   Establishing Broad Operational Framework. WIl would review the
existing PA plans of the seven project areas to deternine how far they meet
the considerations described above. A national workshop, including
representatives from the seven project PAs, would formulate guidelines for
updating PA plans. The strategy would incorporate procedures for
updating the plans, would identify technical and scientific support needed,
and define a schedule for preparing the plans.
(b)   Agreement on PA-Level Framework. The broad national strategy would
provide the basis for adjustment to meet site-specific needs. Workshops at
the PA level would identify key issues and define approaches for identifying
and integrating regional and local concerns. Regional development agencies
and other stakeholder groups, NGOs, local community representatives, etc.
would be consulted and participate in these workshops.
(c)    Special studies to address PA concerns. As part of the plan revision
process, the project would support specific studies for each PA. Studies
would include, for example, development education and awareness
strategies, assessment of environmental impacts of specific regional
development programs on PAs (e.g. impact of the North Koel hydropower
project on Palamau in Bihar, impact of fisheries development in Pench in
Madhya Pradesh, etc.). Strategies to be supported under the project would
include ecotourism development strategies for Periyar in Kerala, Pench in
Madhya Piadesh, and Ranthambhore in Rajasthan; a strategy for
management of the Sabrimala Temple enclave in Periyar (Kerala), etc.
Since baseline maps of the PAs are not comprehensive or do not exist, the
project would provide support for the preparation of these maps. The
recommendations of the studies would be incorporated into the respective
PA plans.
(d)   Form Planning Team. Previous PA plans have been prepared by a single
individual or a small group of forest department staff. However, the
updatef. - snre new components, such as regional and policy evaluations,
that, vxv. .d need the services of an inter-disciplinary team. The necessary
mix of sk;ls in planning, ecology, sociology, regional development, etc. is
not available within the PA staff. These services would, therefore, have to
be drawn from outside agencies, NGOs, and planning institutions so the
project would provide financial resources for PA update, including the



107                             Annex 7
hiring of specific technical services, as and when required. PA managers
would select a planning officer for each PA who would coordinate and
guide the revision of the plan. The planning officer would either be the PA
manager himself (if he has the time) or another officer, working in close
collaboration with him. These officers would be provided training at the
WII in plan preparation.
(e)   Gather basic background information and prepare the plan. To be
done after the PA-level workshops and concurrently with the special policy
and technical studies in support of PA planning. This will consist of review
of all materials available, enabling legislation, socioeconomic and cultural
information; field inventory and collection of new and additional data;
review of potential effects of regional development activities and special
requirements of adjacent inhabitants; and compilation of the plan This
process is expected to take about 8 to 12 months and would include
regular consultations with technical specialists, regional development
agencies, NGOs, local communities, etc.
(f)   Finalize and publicize plan. Before finalization, all stakeholder groups,
regional, local, and national, as well as the Bank would have the
opportunity to review the plan and to comment on its recommendations in
order to better ensure consensus and understanding. An environmental
impact review by a national institution contracted for the purpose, would
ensure that plan recommendations are in keeping with the objectives of
conservation of biodiversity and beneficial to the environment. This is
recommended to give more legitimacy to PA plans, since they currently
have no legal status or approval process. PA managers would ensure
publicity for finalized plans, to broaden understanding, awareness, and
acceptance among regional agencies, community groups, and politicians.
(g)   Establish arrangements for plan updating on a continuing basis in the
future.
Incorporating PA Concerns into Regional Planning and Regulation
9.    Context.. Local and regional activities in the vicinity of PAs, including the
programs of other development agencies, may threaten the integrity of PAs or the
implementation of the ecodevelopment strategy.. Examples of possible threats in the seven
project PAs include the North Koel multipurpose hydroelectric project in Palamau, the
potential reservoir and irrigation conveyance project in Buxa, and fisheries development in
the reservoir in Pench (for more information and other examples see Annex 6). PAs can be
successful in realizing their long-term conservation goals only to the extent that their
priorities can become integrated into large scale land use planning initiatives and
regulations at the local and regional levels. To attain this, PA managers need to identify
and assess at an early stage, activities with the potential for harming PAs.
10.   Project Covenant on Regional Impacts. On a more specific level, project
investments would be cost effective only to the extent to which activities outside the scope



108                            Annex 7
of the project do not undermine the project objectives and strategy. To address this
concem, assurances were obtained at negotiations that the state and national governments
would take steps acceptable to the Bank to ensure that activities outside the scope of the
project would not undermine biodiversity conservation within the PAs, and would not
undermine the implementation of the ecodevelopment strategy in and around the PAs. To
accomplish this, the government would apply its own environmental assessment
regulations and would also incorporate additional standards described below. If the
government proceeded with an activity that undermined conservation or the
ecodevelopment strategy according to the criteria listed below, the project would cease to
provide financing to that PA.
11.   Criteria to Assess Adverse Impacts. Regional activities would undermine
biodiversity conservation in a project PA or undermine the ecodevelopment strategy if
they cause:
(a)   A probable increase in the level of encroachment into the PA that is not
adequately mitigated. This would include displacement of people by
submergence from a dam in the vicinity of a PA without an effective
resettlement and rehabilitation program to mitigate PA encroachment.
Bank experience has demonstrated that careful consultation with affected
people and restoration of the incomes would be essential in this situation.
(b)   Probable disruption of migrations of ecologically important species---for
example, net loss of wildlife corridors.
(c)   Fragmentation, or other change in legal status of any part of the PA that
would materially and adversely affect the viability of ecologically important
ecosystems and species
(d)   Fragmentation, or other change in legal status of any part of the PA that
would materially and adversely affect the ecodevelopment strategy of
decreasing negative interactions and increasing collaboration between local
people and government managers. To be consistent with the
ecodevelopment strategy, conversion, fragmentation, or changes in legal
status would need to comply with the Bank's Operational Directive 4.20
on Indigenous People, which is described in Annex 20. This would include
recognizing and resolving the customary tenure rights of indigenous
people.
(e)   Displacement of people in and around the PAs in ways that would
materially and adversely affect the project strategy of decreasing negative
interactions and increasing collaboration between local people and
government managers. As in the case of (a) above, Bank experience has
demonstrated that that careful consultation with affected people and
restoration of the incomes would be essential.
12.   Application of Criteria. Project support for regional planning and regulation
would provide the mechanism for the project staff to ensure compliance with the project
covenant on regional impacts. During the first year of the project there would be an initial



109                             Annex 7
inventory and preliminary assessment of existing and proposed activities that would
include advice on extent of adverse impact and need for environmental assessment or
other follow-up actions (see terms of reference in Annex 11). This exercise would result in
one of the four possible outcomes:
(a)   The CCF (Wildlife) may be able to immediately certify that the activities
would have no adverse impacts.
(b)   Situations where impacts are minimal and do not require full assessment
may, instead of a full environmental assessment, require interagency
discussions and adjustment to meet PA and wildlife interests as represented
by the CCF (Wildlife).
(c)   The CCF (Wildlife) may be able to immediately recognize that the likely
impact of the activities would be adverse according to the above criteria,
would not be possible to mitigate, and therefore should not proceed.
(d)   PA authorities may decide that the activities need a full environmental
assessment and/or resettlement plan including scoping/baseline survey,
consultation, management plans, and monitoring plans. MOEF would then
review this environmental assessment and/or resettlement plan, making use
of existing environmental protection regulations and the project guidance
on resettlement best practise. MOEF would then require that the proposed
development program include adequate funds to implement, manage and
monitor the environmental management and/or resettlement plan. During
the review, MOEF may conclude that the likely impact of the activities
would be adverse according to the above criteria, would not be possible to
mitigate, and therefore should not proceed. In addition to monitoring by
the sponsoring agency, the CCF, Wildlife, with support of contracted
specialists as necessary, would independently monitor the implementation
of the environmental mangement and/or resettlement plan on behalf of
MOEF.
13.   Conflict Resolution. Conflicts raised by stakeholders, NGOs, and others over the
application of criteria that cannot be resolved by the state CCF, Wildlife or by MOEF
officials responsible for environmental assessment compliance, would be refered to the
Project Steering Committee, which would include NGOs and other contracted specialists
involved with the project at the national level. The Bank would be kept informed of these
conflicts and their resolution. The project also provides monitoring and independent NGO
studies which may identify potential conflicts and suggest possible resolutions. The Bank
review would focus on whether the Government is complying with the agreed guidelines
and procedures. The Bank would also retain the authority to interpret and apply the
regional impacts covenant as necessary.
14.   Capacity Building. Project support would not focus solely on enforcement of the
legal covenant. The project would help PA authorities to develop appropriate mechanisms
that would provide the continuous and sustainable detection and monitoring of outside
activities. Under a project contract, an expert instititution would develop guidelines for the
integration of PA concerns into regional planning and regulation, including detection,



110                              Annex 7
assessment, and monitoring (see Annex 11 for terms of reference). The contracted
institution would investigate the application of the Environmental Protection Act (EPA) in
the PA context. In particular the contractor would identify the nature and scope of actions
to be prescribed, describe the permissible limits of applicability of the law, and recommend
the next steps to strengthen appropriate monitoring, regulation, and enforcement
mechanisms. The contractor would also identify adjustments required for investment
proposals that have already received environmental clearnance based on earlier, less
comprehensive standards. Where necessary, contractor would obtain assistance from other
specialists (e.g., resettlement specialists, anthropologists and tribal representatives). The
project would help PA authorities to acquire the minimum skills needed to recognize the
major potential impacts of surrounding developments. The project would also fund
technical expertise to analyze conflicts and develop appropriate strategies for mitigation
and avoidance.
15.   Environmental Site Review. When used wisely and early in the planning phase,
site review associated with environmental assessments (EA) can be an important
regulatory control for protection of PA resources. Wherever possible, PA authorities
should attempt to persuade agencies concerned to consider alternative sites or routes
outside the PAs, or to take adequate precautions to avoid or reduce adverse impacts on
the PA. For large-scale proposed investment proposals in the vicinity of the PAs, the
project would make use of existing environmental protection regulations that give special
notified status to the areas surrounding PAs. The project would also include provision to
analyze smaller-scale activities in the vicinity of the PA at the local level, as well as
project-related investments themselves. Each PA would obtain the services of an
ecologist and sociologist on contract to assist the PA authorities address the
environmental and social concerns of both project and non-project activities. The project
would also include guidance and specialized support for continuing environmental review
and social assessment of proposed project investments.
16.   Resettlement Caused by Non-Project Activities. Non-project activities causing
resettlement could affect the project either by contributing to encroachment into fragile
parts of the PA or by undermining the spirit of collaboration being established through the
ecodevelopment strategy. To prevent these negative impacts, resettlement and
rehabilitation for these activities would need to incorporate best practice, including (a) an
accurate and current baseline survey, (b) careful and comprehensive consultation with
local people and host communities, (c) restoration of living standard of local people, (d)
full compensation for land and other assets including those of indigenous people held
under customary tenure, (e) support acceptable to affected persons during transitional
phase, and (f) an explicit strategy and plan for sustainable encroachment control. The
detailed plan documentation would confirm consistency with these best practices. Subject
to decisions to be taken during microplanning, village ecodevelopment investments in and
around the PAs may help to restore the living standards of local people. Subject to the
additional consultation, the special voluntary relocation program of the Ecodevelopment
Project might also provide additional financing for people living within the PAs. However,
such financing by the Ecodevelopment Project would be incidental, and would be directed
toward ecodevelopment objectives, not the needs of non-project investments. Agencies



111                             Annex 7
initiating the non-project activities (e.g. irrigation department, electicity board), not the
state forest departments, would be responsible for the full costs of resettlement and
rehabilitation associated with their investments.
17.   Liaison. The project would also support the incorporation of PA considerations
into regional planning on a more general and comprehensive level. Assessment and
mitigation of regional impacts and integration of PA concerns into regional development
plans requires good working relationships with local and regional planning and
management authorities and with local communities. These relationships can be based on a
clear formulation of local conservation needs and objectives that can in themselves usefully
contribute to the development of regional plans Such plans should attempt to set goals
and standards for the development and conservation of natural resources since these will
help to guarantee that the output of multiple land-use systems can be sustained without
forec'osing options for future use.
Ecosytem Protection and Habitats
18.   Protecting and Managing Ecosystems and Habitats. During project
preparation, the PA authorities developed an indicative list of activities based on existing
plans and available information. The scope and nature of these activities differ from PA to
PA and in most cases would be very site specific. The broad categories of activities are:
(a)   Ecosystem and habitat restoration
(b)   Improving fire, poaching, and animal control
(c)   Managing enterprise and visitor enclaves.
The updated PA management plans described above, once completed, would determine
the specific content of investments in this subcomponent. For each PA, the states would
submit the updated PA management plans for approval by the Bank prior to
implementation of the plan. However, investments in ecosystem protection and
management would be required prior to the likely completion of the PA management plan
updating..
Initial Investments
19.   Eligibility Criteria of Initial Investments. To ensure the environmental
soundness of such interim activities, PA officials would have to demonstrate first that the
activities would:
(a)   Conserve biodiversity
(b)   Be urgently needed
(c)   Not foreclose option1s being considered for the updated PA management
plans
(d)   Be consistent with existing PA management plans
(e)   Be technically feasible
(f)    Not erode customary tenure rights of tribals and



112                             Annex 7
(g)   Be environmentally sustainable.
20.   Planning and Clearance Process for Early Investments in Protecting and
Managing Ecosystems. To accomplish the above, PA managers would follow the steps
listed below:
(a)   Preparation of annual operational work plan and endorsement of work plan
by PA Coordinating Committee
(b)   Review of annual work plans by PA director in collaboration with
contracted organizations to ensure activities meet the eligibility criteria
outlined above (although subject to further environmental and social
review)
(c)   Preparation of site plans, engineering specifications, layouts, etc. for each
activity, including a review of their environmental and social impact; and
review and approval of site plans and designs by the World Bank, as
appropriate
(d)   Implementation of activities according to workplan
(e)   Monitoring of progress, performance, and impact of PA management
activities in collaboration with contracted organizations
(f)   Incorporation of monitoring findings and interim status reports on PA
management plan updating into subsequent annual work plans.
Types of Investments
21.   Ecosystem and Habitat Restoration. The project would aim to restore and
maintain biodiversity in the PAs through well targeted and researched restoration works
and associated staff supervision aimed at improving the viability of habitats and
populations in the PAs and immediate surroundings. Although restoration technologies
cannot quickly restore the diversity that existed prior to degradation, they can break the
cycle of resource degradation and re-establish a community of indigenous organisms. In
the project PAs, existing restoration plans include eradication of weeds, improving
conditions for natural regeneration of food and fodder species, stabilizing and improving
conditions in areas prone to extensive soil erosion; and special control structures such as
electric fencing and stone walls to reduce grazing pressure on fragile areas from domestic
animals. Additional programs in indicative plans include the water conservation works in
areas where there is a serious shortage of water for endangered animals during the dry
seasons. The location and extent of the ecosystem and habitat restoration works would
evolve from the project-initiated PA management planning process. These interventions
would be site-specific and based on a careful consideration of alternatives and the need to
maintain or enhance ecosystem integrity of the PA.
22.   Fire, Poaching, and Animal Control. Effective conservation of PAs can only be
achieved by restricting or controlling activities that might have a detrimental impact on PA
resources. Investments would include communications equipment, a limited number of
vehicles and boats, minor access track improvements, fire watch towers, sign boards, and
boundary markers. Enhanced training on fire management would also be supported. The



113                                  Annex 7
project would also encourage and support programs for enlisting the support of PA
neighbors in PA management related activities, including employment as guards and
watchers, anti-poaching squads, community protection groups, etc. Special animal control
measures including structures such as electric fencing and stone walls would help prevent
elephant straying out into the wider areas of human habitation surrounding Buxa, Palamau
and Nagarhole. Site-specific animal damage control structures directed at villages in the
immediate periphery would also be supported under the ecodevelopment component of
the project.
Upgrading Amenities for PA Staff
23.    The selection of the seven PAs was premised in part on the fact that these PAs
already had good facilities and would not require extensive infrastructure improvements.
Nevertheless, some upgrading of the amenities for field staff would be required and would
comprise limited staff quarters for the lowest ranked PA staff, patrol camps, and drinking
water and electricity supplies for some locations. In addition, career development training
and field kits for staff would be supported under the project.
Technical Assistance
Draft Terms of Reference for Mapping of the PA and Surrounding Areas
Reports to:        PA Field Director
Objectives         Produce a baseline map of the PA and surrounding areas consisting of features
relevant to PA management and ecodevelopment activities. Such a map would also
form a basis for monitoring changes in subsequent years.
Responsibilities:  Review and catalogue the availability of satellite imageries, maps, and other
documents relevant to the production of a baseline map of the PA and surrounding
areas;
Produce geocoded baseline maps of the PA and surrounding areas consisting of
classified vegetation, topographical and drainage features, location of villages and
towns, water bodies, major infrastructure facilities, etc. on an appropriate scale,
using existing maps, digital analysis, satellite imagery, and ground truthing;
Provide a document for interpretation of the map, consisting of extent, status, and
species composition of various vegetation types, etc.; and
Provide a set of guidelines for periodic updating of the maps.
Duration:          One year
Qualifications:    Qualifications and experience in the interpretation of satellite and photo imageries,
particularly relating to natural vegetation and land use. Experience in the
preparation of baseline land use maps.
Draft Terms of Reference for PA Ecologist
Reports to:        PA Field Director



114                                  Annex 7
Objectives          To update PA management plans to ensure improved incorporation of ecological
considerations; the effective involvement of local communities and other
stakeholder groups; to integrate PA concerns into regional planning and
regulation; to undertake environmental review of PA management and village
ecodevelopment investments; and to develop and strengthen policy and
management framework for improved PA management planning.
Responsibilities:  To assist PA authorities to:
- coordinate PA management planning updating processes, including
incorporation of ecological considerations and conduct of planning workshops;
liaise with outside agencies, NGOs, research institutions and universities during
the planning exercise; and provide support for plan preparation.
- prepare action plans for ecosystem protection investments prior to updated
management plans, arrange appropriate review of investment proposals to ensure
that they meet eligibility criteria for financing, and document review process and
conclusions;
- conduct environmental review including developing documentation of PA
management and village ecodevelopment investments; and
- training PA staff to perform environmental review functions.
Duration:          Five years.
Qualifications:    Master's or higher degree in wildlife conservation, resource management or
related subject. Five or more years of field management or research experience in
natural forests, wetlands or other terrestrial ecosystems.
Draft Terms of Reference for PA-Level Financial Sustainability Study
Reports to:         Secretary, State Forest Department
Responsibilities:  Analyze existing funding sources and financing mechanisms used for the PA and
for similar entities in the state.
Analyze the opportunities for recovering costs of selected services.
Analyze the range of potential funding sources and financing mechanisms
suggested in the overseas examples identified by the national-level study. This
analysis would include consideration of entrance fees, transport rental fees,
camera/video rental fees, guide fees, guesthouse fees, concession fees, royalties,
donations from the public and from the private sector.
In consultation with the PA Field Director, make rough projections for the post-
project budget required to maintain and further restore biodiversity in the PA.
In consultation with the support teams facilitating the village ecodevelopment
activities, make rough projections for the post-project budget required to maintain
and further implement reciprocal agreements.
Consider options of PA versus state-wide sources and mechanisms.
Identify and meet with key stakeholders who could proactively promote the
adoption of new funding sources and mechanisms.
Recommend strategy on how the PA and the associated village ecodevelopment
program can achieve financial sustainability.



115                                  Annex 7
If appropriate, draft formal proposals and/or government orders required for the
recommended sources and mechanisms.
Present draft report (in English and in the official state language) covering the
above to a workshop of key decision makers, and produce a final report which
responds to comments made during the workshop
Duration:          Two to six months, depending on the state, over a two year period.
Qualifications:    Financial and Legal expertise. Would have qualifications and experience that
commands high degree of professional respect and prominence. Strong writing
skills.
Training
24.    A major training program would be supported under the project to build capacity
within the PAs for improved management of the PA system. Each State has developed a
training plan for PA planning and management. As listed in the indicative training plan
presented below, this will include participation in training courses, workshops, study tours
and seminars at both national and international levels. In particular, higher level staff
(range officer grades and above) would be trained in wildlife management at the WII,
participate in specialized workshops in various national and international institutions, and
undertake study tours.
25.    Guards and foresters who are the most important, but often most ignored, unit in
the PAs would be specifically incorporated into the project training programs. In-service
training programs would be developed particularly for these personnel within the State.
Specially tailored study tours would be organized on a regular basis for these personnel to
visit PAs within the state or neighboring states, so that they would be exposed to new
management activities.



Indicative Training Plan - PA Management
, E E - T ~~~~......      .- .  -E--Ei--E-iE. . -.-.E ......       ..-...                                                             ..E..Ei-EE.--
Course Topic             Type: : of cri                   pr      burcAei                                                              Duration:         Frequecy
... ..   .:'c o u rse ~   . .  ......._                   _ _    _ _      _ .._                           _.. . ._... . . .._.. ..._... ..
Wildlife management    diploma              DCF and ACF         Management strategies, planning and            WII, Dehradun           9 months          Average of 2 per
t&hniques for management of wildlife and                                                 PA for life of project
l __________________                       .  _____________      protected   areas.   _ _____
Certificate in Wildlife    certificate      RO                  Practical aspects of wildlife management       WII, Dehradun           4 months          2 -5 per PA for life
Management                                                      and field techniques and application.                                                    of project
Specialized topics       training           CF, DCF, ACF,   Training in specialized aspects of PA              WII and others          I to 3 weeks      Average of 2 per
RO                 management, including chemical                                                            year for each PA
immobilization and translocation, census
methods, interpretation, disease
management, data management, animal
control, etc.
Specialized              workshop/          CF, DCF, ACF    Interaction/dissemination on specialized           Various institutions    3 to 5 days       3 -8 per PA for life
Management topics        seminar            RO                  topics such as PA planning and                 in-country                                of project              a'
management, interpretation, ornithology,
l ___________________    ________________    _____________       captive_brcaptive  breeding, data  management, etc.
Wildlife Orientation     training course    Guards,             Introduction to wildlife management            within State            2 to 4 weeks      Average of 2
Foresters                                                                                                   courses per year for
each PA (30-40
trained per year for
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                       each    PA )
Wildlife and             study tour         Guards,             Exposure to PA and wildlife management    within state and             I week             1-2 study tours per
Protected Area                              Foresters           approaches                                     neighboring states                        year for each PA
Management                                                                                                                                               (10-20 participants
per year for each
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                               _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                  P A )
Specialized topics       international      CCF, CF, DCF,   Specialized topics such as natural resource    Various countries,          I to 6 weeks      1-2 per year for each
seminar and        ACF                management, park interpretation, habitat       in particular Asia                         PA
study tour                            management, biodiversity assessment,
resource economics, park management,
l _________________    ______________   ______________            remote sensing, tourism   development, etc. etc.



117                             Annex 8
Annex 8: Village Ecodevelopment
A. Overview
1.    Village ecodevelopment would reduce negative interactions of local people on
biodiversity and increase collaboration of local people in conservation. Under this
component the project would:
(a)   Conduct participatory microplanning and provide implementation support,
using contracted local NGOs, expert advisors, workshops, materials,
training (of government officials, NGOs, and local people), PA staff, and
associated travel
(b)   Implement reciprocal commitments that foster alternative livelihoods and
resource uses to be financed by a village ecodevelopment program and that
specify measurable actions by local people to improve conservation
(c)   Conduct special programs to:
(i)   support additional joint forest management in reserve forests in the
immediate vicinity
(ii)   develop the voluntary relocation option for people in the PAs in
ways that are consistent with project objectives and Bank policies
(See Annex 20) and
(iii) provide other supplemental investments through a discretionary
reserve for PA managers to allocate to areas with special needs.
B. Participatory Microplanning and Implementation Processes
2.    Microplanning support teams composed of PA personnel, collaborating NGOs and
villagers (each team with at least one woman and with members able to easily
communicate with tribals) would assist village communities to develop and implement
site-specific reciprocal plans on a continuing basis throughout the project period. In order
to ensure that these plans meet project objectives and embody the active commitment and
participation of local people, focused guidelines, clearly determined investment criteria,
supportive training programs and carefully scheduled planning would be critical. Since this
form of roiling, participatory planning represents a radical departure from current project
practices, it would require sustained support throughout project implementation.
Methodology
3.    Key Elements. The project would develop and employ methodologies best suited
to village ecodevelopment through:
l
Guidelines subject to revision to reflect experience in practice. Revision will be documented through
exchanges of letters and comprehensive updating as needed.



118                               Annex 8
(a)    active participation of all segments of society in plan formulation and
decision-making through a community institutional framework that elicits
the widest possible consensus.
(b)   participatory rural appraisal (PRA) focused on the mutual interactions
and reciprocal arrangements between the PA and people;
(c)    simplified microplan format allowing the village group to be the author
of the plans jointly with the PA authorities, directly incorporating the
results of the focused PRA exercises, and summarizing the mutually
approved investments, objectives, inputs, mutual obligations, schedule, and
monitoring indicators that together form the reciprocal commitments;
(d)   arrangements for cost and benefit sharing within all reciprocal
commitments;
(e)    assessments of proposals to determine whether they meet eligibility and
feasibility criteria for project investment, and to incorporate lessons from
ongoing monitoring;
(f)    administrative arrangements to simplify and speed fund allocations and
community-led implementation
(g)    community and support team capacity built through on-going training
and study tours.
4.    Further Development of Methodology. Many elements of this methodology have
already been developed during the preparation process. A national level NGO would be
contracted to further refine these elements to meet project needs. This refinement would
be done in collaboration with local NGOs, project staff, and trainers, and would also
produce guidelines for local adaptation and use in the field and for incorporation into
training programs.
Village Institutions and Marginal Sub-groups
5.    Group Size and Composition. The project would operate at the level of a single
village or hamlet constituted into an ecodevelopment committee (EDC), except where
existing forest protection committees have already been established for joint forest
management (JFM). This design reflects well-documented lessons from participatory
.forestry programs in India (such as JFM) and elsewhere identifying appropriate village
institutions as the best units for microplanning and as the basis for community action. In
general, the best results have been obtained from relatively small and homogeneous
villages, hamlets, and user groups (i.e., 30-60 households) in which all households are
represented in the decision-making body by both men and women members of the
2
household . Frequently, informal groups that are smaller than the revenue village and
2
In several cases, in the interest of minimizing administrative complications, forestry officials have
included projections for larger groups when compiling cost estimates for the project. However, the
project review would include close monitoring on the extent of marginal peoples' participation in
these groups and group size would be reduced if necessary.



119                              Annex 8
separate, though inclusive of, the political panchayat bodies have proven the most
effective and sustainable units for joint forest management and community based rural
development. The formation of groups should reduce herogenity within, thus enabling the
representative to speak for the entire group, while encouraging heterogenity between
groups negotiation and conflict resolution to take place between groups. However, equity
considerations require that ecodevelopment committees are composed of all members of
the village/hamlet and include women representatives from each household as well as men.
6.    Inclusion of Marginal Sub-groups. Many villages contain sub-groups that
differentiate resource use and income strategies by both social and economic status and by
gender. Participatory rural appraisal (PRA) microplanning exercises will need to make
special efforts to ensure that less vocal and powerful sub-groups fully participate. Course
reference material collected by Wildlife Institute of India (WIl), documents one of the
most effective means of ensuring this participation. This is to hold separate exercises with
each identified sub-group and then discuss the results in a general assembly meeting. This
ensures that discussions with different ethnic and social groups are conducted in ways that
are sensitive to their cultural norms.
Government Orders
7.    Relation to Joint Forest Management. New government orders (GOs) would be
required to establish the EDCs and enable them to implement village ecodevelopment
activities and share in project benefits, including forest resources. Many, but not all, of the
states have issued GOs allowing joint forest management (JFM) on reserve and protected
forests. These specify membership, rights and responsibilities, and benefit sharing
arrangements for various products such as grass, non-timber forest products (NTFP),
poles and timber. Where these arrangements are in place, they would automatically apply
to JFM activities in peripheral reserve forest areas. JFM activities are widely expected to
be the most effective ecodevelopment investment available to the project. Where GOs are
not yet issued, it is critical that they be so, to allow JFM to be instituted around PAs..
8.    EDC Government Orders. The project has stressed the need for the states to
develop GO to establish ecodevelopment committees and define their rights and
responsibilities. While initial village ecodevelopment investments can proceed without a
formal legal framework, for large-scale implementation of the village ecodevelopment
states will need to have an appropriate GO consistent with project design. The orders
would need to address the strategy of mitigating negative impacts on vulnerable groups,
by providing for such measures as resource-sharing from operations. Such operations
would include habitat manipulation; other such sources would be tourist entry fees,
confiscated produce etc.
9.    Status of Government Orders. All participating states have drafted GOs on
establishing EDCs.. Assurances would be sought that states would issue these GOs by
September 30, 1998. Although the specification of benefit sharing from PA areas is
severely constrained by existing legislation, most PA managers are of the opinion that it is
possible to come to specific agreements with EDCs regarding distribution of benefits from
PA operations.



120                            Annex 8
10.   Minimum Required Contents of Government Orders. These orders would
follow the pattern of GOs for JFM committees, with suitable modifications to comply with
the laws governing national parks and sanctuaries. At the very least they must) specify the
following:
(a)   Composition of the EDC in each village would comprise all eligible
households including those headed by women, all scheduled castes(SCs),
and all scheduled tribes (STs). Women would have equal rights with male
household members. Women and STs/SCs would be included on the
executive committee; a mechanism for registering members with the forest
department would be established and a bank account, to be jointly
operated, would be authorized
(b)   Rights and responsibilities of the EDC members and the forest department
to protect the PA and carry out ecodevelopment activities would be
established
(c)   Provisions would be made for sharing of revenues or produce from
specified operations such as habitat manipulation (e.g. fire line grass and
brush cutting, elimination of undesirable species, etc.), tourism revenues,
confiscated produce, and so forth
(d)   Provisions would be made for conflict resolution and revocation of
agreement.
Protected Area Mutual Interactions Assessment
11.   Focused Assessment. Sustained focus on PA relationships is necessary if PRA
exercises are to lead to reciprocal commitments that meet project objectives rather than
leading off into general rural development. This would require the use of what the Aga
Khan Rural Support Program calls a "Topical PRA", which is centered on the analysis of
interaction between the PA and local people. Such a PRA could be termed a protected
area mutual interactions assessment (PAMIA). Its constant object would be to mediate
disagreements and find mutually agreed solutions, either by directly decreasing the source
of disagreement or by finding compensatory mechanisms. (See Box 1 for a list of possible
PRA tools to carry out this planning.) The strength of a PRA comes in part from its
holistic analysis of problems, needs, and opportunities and their inter-linkages. But both
PA authorities and village communities must agree that any proposed investment or action
will result in measurable improvement to sustainable biodiversity conservation. Other
issues in community development are only relevant if they contribute to project objectives;
they can be eliminated from PRA and microplanning exercises unless identified by the
community as their highest priority for helping to conserve the PA. This focused approach
reduces the amount of time and resources required to extend PRA based microplanning to
each of the proposed EDCs as well as increasing the potential for sustained mutual
cooperation.



121                                  Annex 8
Box 1: PAMIA: Protected Area Mutual Interaction Assessment
Considerations for a Topical Ecodevelopment PRA
Topic                                Possible Tools
Mutual Interaction Identification
Project objectives & constraints     flip chart for discussion of objectives, benefits, conditions, and
constraints
PA resource use                      map of resource use (grass, NTFP, roads, temples, etc.)
(by people)                          seasonality chart
ranking of resource importance (dependency) by sub-group
changes in use vis-a-vis PA Establishment
ranking of impacts of PA restrictions on income by group
sustainability of resources
Private resource use                 map of crop depredation
(by PA wildlife)                     seasonality chart
ranking of impact by species, crop and affected households
map of livestock depredation areas
existing protection and compensation measures
Other interactions                   ranking existing sources of PA employment by sub-group
Venn diagram of PA-people interactions
ranking of positive and negative interactions
Identification of Possible Solutions
PA resource use                      potential for limited PA resource use e.g. fire line grass, etc.
Conmmunty resource use               map of potential JFM in peripheral forests
within village area/farm resource creation potential
PA wildlife damage control           identification and ranking of potential protection measures
Other interactions                   methods for targeting future FD employment
methods for improving human interactions
identification of alternate income sources associated with PA
Other priorities                     community investment priorities
ranking of existing government sponsored development schemes of
interest to community
identifying and ranking alternative individual income schemes
Proposed Reciprocal Commitments
Proposed activities                  ranking of potential investments and activities by project criteria:
conservation potential; willingness to cost-share; equity;
incrementality; and social, financial, technical and environmental
feasibility



122                             Annex 8
12.   Assessment Process. Following the establishment of EDCs, team training, and the
collection of background materials and maps, the microplanning teams would conduct
PAMIAs through a series of village meetings. At the outset of the microplanning process,
the teams would need to make a clear presentation of the project conditions for
ecodevelopment investment proposals. These would include the fixed amount determined
by the number of households; the necessity for village contributions and procedures for
making them; the nature of the reciprocal commitment that is the microplanning outcome;
and the feasibility criteria that all eligible investments must meet. Clear and widespread
understanding of the objectives, benefits and constraints of project investments will help
focus PAMIA discussions and ensure that they lead to reciprocal commitments of mutual
benefit.
Eligibility Criteria for Investments
13.   To be eligible for inclusion in the reciprocal commitments, village ecodevelopment
investments would have to follow specific eligibility criteria listed below:c
(a)   Conserve biodiversity either directly or indirectly by creating sufficient
incentives for a consensus to commit local people to specific, measurable,
actions that improve conservation
(b)   Provide equitable share of benefits to and mitigate negative impacts
on tribals, women, and poor disadvantaged groups who are currently most
dependent on the PA
(c)   Add supplemental resources, i.e, alternative sources of funding and
support are not available
(d)   Be socially and institutionally feasible, ensuring that, e.g., associated
activities are culturally acceptable and that local institutional capacity is
adequate to organize rotating forest protection, distribute benefits from
common resources, provide physical maintenance, keep accounts, meet
contribution requirements, etc.
(e)   Be financially feasible, e.g. , costs are within norms or cleared by PA
manager; returns are sufficient to compensate for PA resources foregone;
and, for all investments intended to produce cash revenue or benefits that
can be monetized, market linkages are adequate, cash flow requirements
are viable, and returns compare favorably with alternative investment
options
(f)    Be technically feasible, e.g., inputs and technical advice are adequate;
physical conditions are suitable; activity is technically sound
(g)   Be environmental sustainable: confirm that, e.g., adverse environmental
impact of exotic species, agro-chemicals, construction activity, can be
ameliorated or avoided
(h)   Be selected and owned by EDCs; ensured through by budget constraint
mechanism and contribution requirement.



123                             Annex 8
14.   Eligibility Review. Local EDCs and PA project managers would both be
responsible for applying eligibility criteria to proposed ecodevelopment investments. Local
people would assess these criteria using their fund of indigenous knowledge and local
experience, but would have access to expert advice where necessary. Project managers
and microplanning teams would also supplement their existing knowledge with expert
assessments and the results of ongoing monitoring and research. The project managers
would then be responsible for ensuring that the microplan proposals forwarded to them
meet these criteria before authorizing their implementation by completing a reciprocal
ecodevelopment agreement with each village community. It would be impractical and
exorbitantly expensive to have outside experts assess each microplan. Therefore,
consultant experts in each technical, economic, and social subject likely to be at issue
would be engaged to examine the range of potential investments and create specific
guidelines for the appraisal of microplan investment. In many cases, such information is
already available with specialized government departments, universities, and NGOs and
need only be duplicated and summarized for use of project authorities. However, many
special cases are likely to arise during the course of the project that may require some on-
going expert input. In addition, project managers would be responsible for regularly
disseminating the results of ongoing monitoring and research to all PA staff and
ecodevelopment committees for discussion and incorporation into their planning and
implementation activities.
15.   Actions that Improve Conservation. EDCs would specify their commitment in
advance of the investment, but the commitment could be for actions that would usually
begin upon the completion of the investment. Examples of specific measurable actions
include avoidance of grazing or fuelwood collection or NTFP collection in a specified
area, operation of a regular village patrol, arrangements to assist in poaching control, etc.
It would be important for the commitments to be realistic and to be based on a fill
consensus of the EDC.
16.   Feasibility Considerations. Project preparation included the development of
generic cross-sectoral feasibility guidelines and examples of sector-specific guidelines.
Both the project preparation facility (PPF) and the project include support for
development of additional sector-specific guidelines and ongoing revision of existing
guidelines based on project experience. Ecodevelopment investments would be restricted
to types of investments that were already covered by sector-specific feasibility guidelines
acceptable to IDA. Part C of this Annex lists questions directed to the EDCs on generic
considerations for all investments, and Part D provides an example of sector-specific
questions.
17.   Acceptability of Investment Costs. Proposed investment costs for all projects
selected by EDCs would be required to fit within state norms unless granted a waiver by
the PA director. EDCs would select investments within a pre-established budget and with
implicit consideration of relative costs.
18.   Budget Constraints: Level and Phasing. The total costs of the ecodevelopment
investments would not exceed Rs. 10,000 (US $285) in constant 1996 prices per family,
plus Rs. 500 (US$14) per family at preinvestment (i.e., during initial microplanning) to
establish credibility. The funding would usually be spread out over a three year period,
with one third of the total resources available each year. The budget constraint per EDC



124                             Annex 8
would be calculated on a per household basis, multiplied by the total number of
households. For example, a forty-family hamlet would make decisions within a binding
budget constraint of Rs. 133,333 (US$3.800) for the first year, or Rs. 400,000
(US$ 11,400) over the three years.
19.   Basis for Determining Budget Constraints. The participatory rural appraisal
exercises during project preparation provided the basis for determining an appropriate
level for the budget constraint. First, this level would provide sufficient incentive for local
people to commit to reciprocal commitments. Second, it would require that local people
use the budget constraint to help determine their investment priorities and ensure financial
and economic viability. Budget data on unit costs of possible investments would provide
useful information for local communities, allowing them to be fully aware of relative costs
in determining their priority investments in relation to the budget constraint.
20.   Use of Budget Constraint. Evidence that the community has allocated investment
funds on the basis of a budget constraint would include data on:
(a)   The number of households,
(b)   The standard budget constraint multiplier (including adjustment for
inflation)
(c)   The standard budget constraint for the EDC
(d)   The provision of additional funds from the discretionary reserve and
justification (description of special needs) of this supplemental allocation
(see paragraph 72 below)
(e)   The total value of all desirable investments, which presumably would
exceed the budget constraint, and the unit costs and quantities used to
calculate this total value
(f)    The list with quanitities, unit costs, and value of the proposed investments
(of which the total would not exceed "c" plus "d").
It would also include a brief description of the decision making process (e.g., how many
meetings? who participated?) and the important factors (e.g., unit cost of investment
option relative to size of projected benefit?, total number of beneficiaries affected by
investment option?, extent of forest dependence of beneficiaries?) that the community
used to decide how to reduce the list of investments to fit within the constraint.
Contributions of Local People
21.   Overview. The project design specifies that local people contribute at least 25
percent of the total village ecodevelopment investment in cash, kind, or labor, and that
payment for the market value of contributions be made available to the local people for
additional community investments
22.   Contributions Required Only for Regular Village Ecodevelopment
Investments. The requirement for local people to contribute to investment costs applies
only to the regular village ecodevelopment investments. It does not apply to improved PA
management activities, planning and implementation support for the village
ecodevelopment program, research/impact monitoring and environmental education



125                              Annex 8
activities, project preparation, nor to the project management activities. The requirement
would not necessarily apply to the special programs for the periphery, although some of
these programs (e.g. participatory forestry) also involve arrangements for local
contributions.
23.   Reasons for Requirement. One of the most important eligibility criteria of village
ecodevelopment investments in the main program is that they "conserve biodiversity by ....
creating sufficient incentives for a consensus that commits people to specific, measurable
actions that improve conservation." The local people will need to believe that they will
directly benefit from and own the investment to be willing to commit to such actions. The
history of rural and urban development investments has shown that where the objective of
an investment is to benefit local people (including the poorest of the poor), it is essential
to require some form of cost sharing. Without cost sharing, such investments are highly
likely to fail. If the village ecodevelopment investments fail, local people will not continue
to commit to the actions that improve conservation.
24.   Contribution Requirements. Accordingly contribution requirements would be as
follows:
(a)   Local people would provide a minimum of 25 percent of the total
investment costs for all regular village ecodevelopment investments,
including community oriented activities
(b)   For investments that benefit individuals, local people would provide a
minimum of 25 percent of the investment costs or the established state
government norms for that type of investment, whichever is higher,
(c)   For investments that take place over several years (e.g., joint forest
management) the minimum cost sharing in any one year would be at least
15 percent of that year's investment costs, with arrangements to ensure 25
percent cost sharing over the total investment period
(d)   Local cost sharing would consist of direct contributions of cash, labor, or
physical resources; arrangements for the Forest Department to provide a
cash advance or credit would not fulfill cost sharing requirement
(e)   The total investment cost would be calculated as the sum of all resources,
cash and non-cash; the value of labor and other in-kind contributions would
be calculated on the basis of local market value
(f)   In order to ensure that cost sharing influences the choice of the specific
investment, such sharing would be based on directly related investment
costs. Implied labor costs of local people participating in nicroplanning,
and opportunity costs of resources that have been foregone due to the
establishment of the PA would not be eligible).
25.   Simplified Calculations. The above specifications are designed to minimize
administrative complexities. Therefore, a formula that changes over time or costs of items
whose value is difficult to measure are not included.
26.   Reinvestment of Contribution. The project funds would provide the value of the
25 percent contribution through a community investment fund of the village



126                                 Annex 8
ecodevelopment committee. This fund would be used for community investments in
accordance with participatory microplanning procedures, incorporating the agreed
reciprocal commitments needed to meet project objectives. This arrangement would thus
help to extend the incentive mechanism beyond the period of the initial project investment.
An illustrative example is presented below:
Cash expenditures for    Value of volunteer labor  EDC         Total
direct contract civil   contributed by local people    community
works           for direct contract civil   investment fund
works__            _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _
Cost of                75,000                  25,000                          100,000
investment in
3
plantation
Cost of well for                                                   25,000       25,000
domestic water
supply
Total value            75,000                  25,000              25,000      125,000
PRA Record Keeping and Microplan Proposals/Ecodevelopment
Agreements
27.    Documentation of Background Analysis. The results of PRA exercises need to
be transferred to paper and ample copies provided to the EDC and the officials concerned
with project implementation, These officials would include forest guards, foresters, range
officers, and those involved in project management. The documents---whether in the form
of maps, lists, diagrams, or discussion minutes (including answers to feasibility questions)-
--can serve as the background information to the microplan proposals. They can also
substitute for the lengthy data collection exercises sometimes required at present. They
would be written in a language that is readily understood by the local people. As the direct
product of village deliberations, they are "owned" by the village. They can also serve as a
powerful tool for participatory monitoring of project progress.
28.    Format. The format of the microplan proposal itself can be relatively simple. Once
approved by signature of PA authorities and all members of the EDC, this proposal can
become the ecodevelopment agreement that is the basis for activity implementation. Box 2
outlines the elements of such a microplan:
3
Statement of expenditures information for withdrawal application (in format specified in Annex 14):
JFM Investment: Civil Works: Direct contracting = 100,000, Total = 100,000.
4
Not included in total project costs. No withdrawal application submitted.



127                             Annex 8
Box 2: Microplan Contents
Project Description, including location, agreed activities, and direct participants (villages
& households)
Objectives, including biodiversity (stop grazing in certain areas, reduce incidence of fire
by 50 percent, reduce green fuelwood collection by 90 percent, etc.), socioeconomic (10
percent increased income from milk sales for 20 households, 25 percent reduction in crop
depredation by wild boars, better relations between people and forest department staff,
etc.)
Indicators of success (e.g. increased herbivore population in PA, increased regeneration
of species that are not fire-tolerant, increased yields from fields subject to crop
depredation, increased milk production, more positive park staff - people interactions,
etc.) agreed assessment measures (may be based on group observations and reporting
rather than scientific)
Inputs and activities to be provided by project and village group, including cost sharing
and project financing requirements (which inter alia, demonstrate that investments fit
within budget constraint, applicable cost norrns, and meet contribution requirements);
Benefit distribution & access to resources, including how expected benefits will be
distributed and the resource using rights and concessions of participants (e.g., grass
collection and distribution arrangements, access to NTFP products, water distribution
arrangements, etc.)
Other mutual obligations and responsibilities, including on-going decision making
(e.g., responsibility to stop grazing or green fuelwood collection, responsibility for
organizing community protection, responsibility to pay prompt livestock compensation,
responsibility to prevent outsider timber smuggling, responsibility to allow EDC to deal
with minor offenses, mechanism to deal with conflicts and plan revisions, etc.);
Community organizations and individuals responsible for implementation would be clearly
identified; Individuals within the organization with responsibility for management of funds
would also be specified;
Work schedule, including schedule for delivery of inputs and implementation, schedule
for review meetings, etc.;
Public dissemination activity, including intervillage study tours, etc.
Conflict resolution procedures to be followed in the case of conflicts within EDCs,
between EDCs, or between EDC and PA authorities.
Planning and Processing Steps
29.   Steps. The agreed steps for undertaking participatory village ecodevelopment
investments and activities include the following:



128                             Annex 8
(a)   Establish and train microplanning teams, including through contractual
arrangements with NGOs and other contracted staff (e.g., sociologist)
(b)   Establish and train implementing team, including through contractual
arrangements with NGOs and other specialized technical experts
(c)   Constitute EDC or existing forest protection committee (FPC) and register
all members in accordance with state GO
(d)   Collect and assess background information for planning, including maps
and any baseline or previous PRA data
(e)   Conduct PAMIA (ecodevelopment PRA), to identify potential investments
and activities
(f)    Assist EDCs to establish bank accounts dedicated to agreed
ecodevelopment activities, with signatories as decided during the
ecodevelopment planning
(g)   Review feasibility of identified village ecodevelopment investments by
planning team and experts according to the agreed criteria (conservation of
biodiversity, equity, incrementality, social and institutional feasibility,
financial and technical feasibility, and environmental sustainability)
(h)   Review by PA director and allocation of funding level for finalization of
plans in microplanning according to the number of households in the
microplanning unit (at Rs. 3,325 per household per year, including the
villager contribution, for three years)
(i)    Complete site specific (EDC) microplan agreement for village
ecodevelopment activities, including project description, objectives,
monitoring indicators, inputs and activities, benefit distribution and access
to resources, mutual obligations and responsibilities, work schedule, public
dissemination activity, and conflict resolution mechanism
(j)    Prepare microplan estimates and get approval by disbursing officer
according to delegation of powers; to reduce administrative delays the state
level committee would delegate authority to the PA director to approve
and make payments for eligible ecodevelopment activities
(k)   Collaborate with EDC to implement agreed ecodevelopment activities
according to the workplan with support of any other community
organization that has been mutually identified with payments charged to a
specially created accounting sub-head
(1)    Monitor progress, performance, and impact of ecodevelopment activities in
collaboration with contracted organizations and EDCs
(m)   Ensure annual audits of all fund accounts, including EDC accounts, and
inspect EDC accounts when required
(n)   Conduct annual microplan review meetings with EDC and update plan for
future years as required.



129                             Annex 8
Organizational and Planning Needs
30.   Logistic Complexities. Orchestrating personnel and resource needs for carrying
out the extensive microplanning and village ecodevelopment investment program will be a
complex endeavor. The average PA is planning to target approximately 60,000 people
consisting of an average of about 10,000 households in villages varying in size from less
than 30 households to more than 200. At full project development, microplanning
activities will often be going on in at least 20 - 40 villages and, simultaneously in each PA,
implementation support in 50 - 200 villages. Two to four microplanning and
implementation support teams per PA in addition to forestry staff assigned to each EDC
will be required to carry out project activities. Extensive personnel planning and training
of these staff has been built into the project. This is designed to ensure that there will be
enough time and resources to nurture true participation and avoid the temptation to group
separate villages into larger and more diverse units for ease of administration. To do this
would probably defeat the purpose of this part of the project by discouraging
participation.
31.   Support Teams. Composition of planning and implementation support teams will
vary by PA. In general, a senior PA officer (e.g., ecodevelopment officer, deputy director,
attached officer) will provide overall guidance and supervision with the assistance of the
contracted sociologist and ecologist. Two to four teams composed of assigned range
officers and contracted NGOs will conduct microplanning and form microplanning teams
for each EDC with the addition of the locally assigned forester and forest guard as well as
some members of the EDC selected by the village. In general, PAs plan to form separate
implementation support teams with PA personnel and NGOs, although there will probably
be overlap between these two sets of teams. during both microplanning and
implementation, provision has been made to enlist additional specialized technical
expertise from local government departments and private firms.
32.   NGO Support. Through contractual arrangements with each state's project
authorities, NGOs would provide personnel and expertise in participatory approaches to
support the microplanning and implementation teams (see section G below for terms of
reference).
C. Generic Feasibility and Eligibility Considerations for All Investments
Biodiversity Conservation
33.   The following list of questions would be used by EDCs and by those responsible
for reviewing reciprocal commitments for compliance with the eligibility criteria and the
village ecodevelopment investment for feasibility:
34.   Direct or Indirect Linkage
(a)   Does the proposed activity directly lead to increased biodiversity
conservation? If the biodiversity of the region were to be seriously
degraded, would the proposed enterprise fail?
(b)   If linkage to conservation is not direct, does investment provide adequate
incentives for changes to specific behaviors that threaten the biodiversity of



130                             Annex 8
the adjacent PA? Is there widespread agreement on specific measures to
increase conservation as a result of indirect benefits
35.   Agreement.
(a)   What measurable improvements in interactions with the PA will result from
this activity or investment?
(b)   How will this agreement be monitored?
(c)   What would be the sanctions for non-compliance and the rewards for
compliance with this agreement?
Impacts on Vulnerable Groups and Benefit Distribution
36.   Overview.
(a)   Based on the PAMIA, who will benefit the most and who will suffer the
most from the proposed (or already instituted) changes in traditional PA
resource use?
(b)   How have population currently dependent on the PA, especially tribals,
women, and other disadvantaged people participated in discussions and the
decision making process?
(c)   What provisions would ensure that the concerns of marginal groups such as
tribals, women, and other disadvantaged groups are specifically addressed?
(d)   How would these provisions be monitored?
37.   Tribal Population.
(a)   Based on social assessment, what special measures are included to ensure
benefits for tribals and to mitigate negative impacts on tribals?
(b)   How will these measures be monitored?
38.   Women.
(a)   Based on social assessment, what special measures are included to ensure
benefits for women and to mitigate negative impacts on women?
(b)   How will these measures be monitored?
Additionality
39.   Existing Program Options. What existing schemes and programs from
government agencies and private programs might potentially support the proposed
activity?
40.   Access. How could the ecodevelopment support team help with access these
programs as either an alternative or supplement to funding from the Ecodevelopment
Project? Are there specific constraints to accessing these programs.



131                             Annex 8
Institutional and Social Feasibility
41.   Cultural Acceptability.
(a)   Are the proposed investment and associated activities socially and
culturally acceptable to all participants?
42.   Local Institutional Capacity.
(a)   Who are the individuals who would be involved in managing the
enterprise? Do they have prior experience in operating an enterprise of this
type?
(b)   If there are no members of the community who have experience in this type
of enterprise, who would provide the short-term expertise and training?
What steps are needed to provide the essential support?
(c)   Can the group organize essential activities and provide physical
maintenance (e.g., rotating responsibilities for forest protection,
maintaining small scale irrigation or check dam)? What are the proposed
arrangements?
(d)   What are the arrangements for financial administration? Who would keep
group accounts? Are there appropriate procedures and accounting systems
for handling funds, including payments for the market value of
contributions that may be made available for additional community
investments?
(e)   What are the arrangements for monitoring and reporting on implementation
progress?
43.   Enterprise Participants
(a)   Who are the individuals who would be either employed by the operation or
supplying raw materials to the operation?
(b)   Who would have ownership of the enterprise? Who would make the
decisions? What form would this ownership take?
(c)   What are the arrangements to distribute benefits from common resources?
44.   Contribution Requirement
(a)   Based on perceptions of the potential likely benefits from the investment,
can at least the minimum required local contribution be provided? (See
paragraphs 18-20 above for specific guidelines on requirements.)
(b)   What are the arrangements for distributing the allocation of local
contribution responsibilities?



132                                 Annex 8
Financial Feasibility
45.    Village groups would consider the full range of financial feasibility issues for all
those investments intended to produce cash revenue or to produce subsistence benefits
with a value that can be converted to a monetary equivalent. For investments that would
not produce quantifiable benefits, village groups would consider financial issues related to
the basic overview, costs, funding, and conclusions but would not consider market
opportunity, competition, and profit/loss.
46.    Basic Overview of Investment.
(a)    What is the specific product or service to be offered?
(b)    How would the product or service be produced?
47.    Market Opportunity
(a)    Who would be the intended customers?
(b)    What is the history of the intended market?
(c)    Why would customers buy this product or service? What gap(s) in the
marketplace would it fill? Does the opportunity exist because there is
excess demand and insufficient supply? Could it be sold at lower cost than
others? Would it be of higher quality than that offered by others?
(d)    How much of the product or service would customers buy?
(e)    What prices would intended customers be willing to pay? How were the
estimated prices determined?
48.    Competition
(a)    Is there any competition for this product or service? Who are these
competitors? Are they selling the same product, or a close substitute?
(b)    What advantage would this enterprise have over the competition? Why?
(c)    Would the advantage be sustainable over the long term?
6
49.   Variable Costs
(a)    What items (e.g., labor, materials, energy) contribute to the variable cost?
How much for each item?
5
For example, alternative fuel sources and village water supplies can produce benefits that can be
converted to a monetary equivalent by calculating the income women could potentially earn in the
time they save by having fuel or water nearby. Such benefits may vary throughout the year depending
on the seasonal demand for labor. Investments to prevent crop and livestock depredation would have
benefits calculated by the value of crop or livestock multiplied by the reduction in risk resulting from
the investment.
6
Costs that vary directly and proportionately with volume.



133                                Annex 8
(b)    What would be the total variable cost of the good or service offered?
7
50.   Fixed Costs
(a)    What are the types and amounts of investment required at the start of the
program?
(b)    Does the investment cost fit within the state norms? If not, has the PA
director granted a waiver?
(c)    What are the administration costs of the enterprise?
(d)    What are the costs of enterprise facilities (e.g., land, office space, etc.)?
(e)    What are the annual replacement costs of equipment and vehicles?
51.   Profit/Loss Projections and Cash Flow
(a)    Develop a worksheet that shows combined cash and non-cash profits and
losses of the business over five years
(b)    Develop a worksheet that shows expected cash receipts and expenditures
over five years
(c)    Analyze the distribution of costs and benefits to the individuals
participating in the enterprise.
52.   Funding
(a)    What are the sources of funds?
(b)    How will the community provide funds and manage operation and
maintenance after the investment phase has been completed?
(c)    Will the project create cash-flow problems for participants during the
investment period, before revenues are generated (a particular problem
with forest plantations)?
53.   Conclusions
(a)   Is the proposed investment financially viable?
(b)    Will it provide sufficient returns to ensure local commitment to
ecodevelopment agreement?
(c)    Are there alternative investments that would have a greater impact on the
local community?
7
Costs that do not vary directly with volume (e.g., administration and management costs,
communications costs, marketing costs, equipment).
8
Calculated by taking the initial value of the equipment and dividing by the expected number of years
of use.



134                              Annex 8
Technical Feasibility
54.   Is proposed activity technically feasible? Does it use the best (e.g., cost effective,
locally suitable, etc.) technical alternative available?
55.   Are there existing government or private schemes that can provide the technical
assistance and inputs needed?
Environmental Feasibility
56.   Are there adverse environmental impacts? If so, what are the options and costs of
mitigation?
9
D. Sector Specific Feasibility (selected examples for illustration only)
57.   PPF and project financing would support development of comprehensive checklists
for a greater range of investments. These lists would cover additional considerations for
soil conservation, small irrigation, water supply, fuelwood alternatives, livestock
improvement, ecotourism, and crop and livestock protection structures.
Joint Forest Management.
58.   Government Resolution.
(a)   Has the state government issued a resolution detailing the institutional
arrangement for JFM and established guidelines for the sharing of
responsibilities and benefits between people and government agencies?
(b)   Has a plan been prepared to bring the peripheral forest areas under JFM,
giving the area to be covered and benefits expected from the efforts?
59.   Stock Map. Has a stock map of your proposed JFM area and surroundings been
prepared, demarcating the following sections:
(a)   Area outside core PA of dense forest with overhead canopy exceeding 40
percent canopy closure
(b)   Area outside core PA of degraded forest with 10-40 percent canopy cover
and/or live stumps of overhead species of at least 250 per ha
(c)   Area outside core PA of blank areas, i.e., the areas with less than 10
percent cover and/or less than 250 live stumps of the overhead species
(d)   PA areas in the vicinity of village and JFM area where harvesting and other
resource use is prohibited or restricted.
60.   Dense Forest Area.
(a)   Is a uniform system, a selection system, or a coppice system planned?
(b)   How will the proposed system parameters minimize
9
PPF and project financing would support development of comprehensive checklists for a greater
range of investments.



135                               Annex 8
(i)   felling damage (deterioration of residual crop and forest floor),
(ii)   road construction
(iii)  transportation of forest products?
(c)    What are the plans for fire watching and protection against vandalism and
theft?
(d)   What are the plans for rotational grazing to allow time for the felled area to
regenerate?
(e)    What are the plans to survey regeneration at regular intervals to monitor
progress? What are the plans to provide sample plots to measure the
growth statistics? What provisions are there to modify the treatment and
harvesting plan if desired regeneration does not materialize?
(f)    What are the plans to maintain proper forest hygiene, e.g., climber cutting,
removal of dead and dying and pest-affected trees?
(g)   Are NTFP harvest methods and levels sustainable? How do they take into
account requirements of pollination, regeneration, seed dispersers, seed
predators, and plant health? How will NTFP collection be regulated to
ensure that it remains sustainable?
61.   Degraded Area
(a)    What are the plans to naturally regenerate these areas? Are the species
present coppicable?
(b)   What are the plans to close the area initially for a specific period to
collection of forest products and grazing?
(c)    What are the plans for fire prevention fire and protection against vandalism
and theft?
(d)   What are the plans for removing dead and dying trees and stumps and thin
stools?
(e)    What are the plans for introducing
(i)    grass cutting, controlled grazing, collection of non-timber forest
products, fuelwood thinning
(ii)   light thinning for poles and plough pieces?
(f)    Are NTFP harvest methods and levels sustainable? How do they take into
account requirements of pollination, regeneration, seed dispersers, seed
predators, and plant health? How will NTFP collection be regulated to
ensure that it remains sustainable?
(g)   Is the soil eroding into gullies? If so, are there plans for vegetative gully
control?



136                              Annex 8
62.   Blank Areas.
(a)   When selecting species, has appropriate vegetation in the successional scale
been selected, keeping in view the altered micro climate of the degraded
area? (For afforestation areas, a common mistake is to select those species
for planting that occur in the contiguous undegraded dense areas.
Degraded areas, however may only be suitable for vegetation that preceded
the current ones in the successional scale. For example, in an area with sal
as a crop in the dense section, the contiguous afforestation sites may have
to be planted with semul, sissoo, etc. instead of sal.)
(b)   Have exotics been proved to be environmentally benign before planting?
(c)    What are the arrangements for avoiding monoculture and preserving
existing biodiversity values?
(d)   What are the plans for collecting seeds from good phenotypes?
(Afforestation work should not be started unless good seeds are assured).
(e)   What are the plans for soil and moisture conservation, (e.g., contour
planting of shrubs and/or preparing contour V ditches and planting in
ditches)?
(f)   In areas that are sources of perennial streams, does the plantation model
include an adequate amount of ground flora (shrubs and grasses) to reduce
soil erosion without significantly reducing the lean period stream flow?
(g)   Are there plans for production of intermediate products and intercropping
of shrubs, grasses, and/or bamboo? If so, have tree densities been set
accordingly? (The tree density in such areas should not exceed 300
trees/ha)
(h)   What are the plans for weeding, fire watching, and controlled grazing for
the first three years?
63.   PA Area. Has the annual loss of harvests foregone by community members been
quantified? (The only harvesting allowed in core areas of PAs is that which would improve
the biodiversity status of these areas.) What measures have been taken to ensure there is
no collection of NTFP in core conservation areas within the PA?
Feasibility Worksheet.
Total JFM Outputs     Resource Use in PAs    Compensatory Impact of  Community views on
Foregone             JFM Activities     acceptability of JFM
(items and quantity)   (items and quantity)   (comparison between         plan
columns 1 and 2)



137                              Annex 8
Farm Forestry.
64.   Planting system.
(a)    Will the planting be peripheral (in lines around the agricultural field), block
(solid tree planting in agricultural waste or fallow land), or alley cropping
(growing agricultural crops between shrubs or trees)?
65.   Peripheral Planting
(a)   Do selected species have deeper root systems, lighter crowns, and
relatively low water demand? (These features minimize loss of agricultural
production brought about by peripheral plants through their shade effect
and use of surface soil water. The cultivation of such trees does not
significantly affect the water table). Has traditional knowledge available
within the community been consulted as to species selection that would
address the local water situation?
(b)   Are the selected species relatively fast-growing so that they can be
harvested quickly? Is there a good market for the smaller timber sizes of
the selected trees. (If trees can only be sold in large timber size, the tree
will have to grown over a longer period and the tree shade and root system
will cover a larger space, which would negatively impact agricultural
production).
(c)   Has monoculture been avoided by the planting of more than one species?
(This would reduce the chances of tree pest attack.)
66.   Block Planting
(a)   Has at least a two-tier species mix been selected, with both the higher and
lower layers having market or subsistence value?
(b)   Do plans for planting density vary according to the planned final products?
67.   Alley Cropping
(a)   Have places where there is drought stress been avoided?
(b)   Have you focused on leguminous or other nitrogen-fixing species?
(c)   Does the tree/shrub and agricultural crop mixture have a complementary
physiological relationship?
(d)   What are the plans to prune the woody crop at interval to keep its shade
effect to a minimum?
68.   Nurseries
(a)   Is there a good source of high quality seeds or seedlings? Have an adequate
number of nurseries to supply the seedlings of desired species to the
farmers been planned at a reasonable distance from the planting sites?
(b)   Are there plans for training local people, particularly women and other
disadvantaged groups, in nursery work?



138                                                    Annex 8
69.   Other Considerations
(a)    What is the planting objective (e.g., cash income from tree products)? If
objective is cash income, are existing marketing arrangements adequate? Is
policy reform required to remove transport restrictions and other market
distortions?
(b)    How do the selected tree system and species take into account resource
usufruct rights and land capability?;
(c)        Is fertilizer organic?
(d)    If land is sloping, do you plan to plant along contours?
(e)    Is grazing control needed? If so, what arrangements have been made?
E. Implementation Plan for Microplanning
Initiation of Microplanning
arhole                                                 Rantham-
GIrrevenue GirfOrest             forest   Nagarhole  Palamau    Pench      Perlyar    bhore      Tdal
Buxa EDCs  villages    village   Gir Nesses settlement  villages  EDCs      EDCs      EDCs       EDCs      Project
___.~~~~  - -.__                  .2 ______     ____        ____   _____
PPF           0          5          0         0          0         5          8         6          0         5          29
98/97         10         5          2          7         5          8         16         8         5          5         71
97/98         7.5       12 5       4.5        17         14       20.5        35        18.5       15         12       156.5
98199         15        16.5        5         20        18 5       25         38        22         30         30        220
99/00         7.5        9         2.5        10        9.5        25         38        23         30         30       184.5
00101          0         0          0         0          0        12.5       37.5      16.5        25        30        121.5
01/02          0         0          0         0          0          0        18.5        5         0          0        23.5
Total Groups     40         48         14        54         47        96        191        99        105        112        806
Average HHI/Group    150      225        54         8         35        120        65         85        80         95
Total HH       6000      10800      756        432        645        520      12415      8415      84D0       1064D     71023
Total Pop/PA    36000                71926                      78990       |  74490      50490     50400      63840     426138
T |  r    9          Nagarhole          r 1                            Rantham-
Gir revenue Gir forest         forest   Nagarhole  Palamau    Pench    Penyar    bhore
| ____      ____B_xa_ EDCs_ villages A l llyg"     Gir Nesses settlenent  Villge  6ECs  |ECs         EDCs      EDCe    Total HH
Implementmatn Perioo                                  4        3                              3         4 2       3 _  3
Lag after inial micrplanni           1         1           1__   1          1                             1          1
PPF              0               _______                                    260        0_                  0        260
96@97            750        0         0         0         0        0        1300      255        0         950      3255
97/98           1875      562.5       0        56        175  -   600       2275      935       400       1140     8018.5
98/899          2250      1687.5     108       136      490  -   960        2470     1 1572.5   12 0      2850      13724
99/00           1125    _2812.5      243       160      647.5     2460      2470      1870      2400      2850      17038
01/02             0       371 2025  j 7135      0            O    3001202.5  1402.5             400         0       11765
00010            0        72.25      27        8        335     3000    12437.5       190255    24000     280      1170375
|   Total HH  I  6000      10800  |  756        432      1645      10020     12415     7990      10400     10640     71098
Total PopuLatiotPA   36000                    71928   -           69990          74490     47940     62400     63840    4265a8
F. Special Programs for the Periphery
70.   Additional Joint Forest Management. These investments would follow the
regular village ecodevelopment procedures, except that they would not be subject to the
household-based budget constraint. They would follow applicable state procedures and
government orders for joint forest management, and where possible, be planned within a
per hectare budget constraint, with a contingency reserve for more expensive treatments
that address site-specific considerations.
71.    Voluntary Relocation. Annex 20 outlines the guidelines for these activities.



139                                  Annex 8
72.    Supplemental Investment. The project includes discretionary funds for PA
managers to supplement regular ecodevelopment funding above the budget constraint to
areas with special needs (e.g., special watershed management priorities in buffer areas
above the PAs, communities that are especially dependent on forest resources, or village
ecodevelopment investment opportunities with economies of scale). For each PA, the
discretionary fund investments would not exceed 18 percent of the regular village
ecodevelopment investments. PA managers would allocate the funds in accordance with
site-specific needs, which generally would result in an uneven allocation of the fund across
EDCs. All discretionary fund investments would be subject to approval by the affected
EDC, but could reflect PA rather than EDC priorities. When the discretionary fund
investments reflect PA rather than EDC priorities, the investments would not subject to
10
the contribution requirements or the budget constraint , and the PA manager would
provide a clear explanation of how the investment would directly benefit the PA.
Frequently such investments would not produce benefits that could be easily converted
into a monetary equivalent. In all other regards, discretionary reserve investments would
be subject to the agreed eligibility criteria and feasibility considerations.
G. Terms of Reference
Draft Terms of Reference for Participatory Microplanning and
Implementation Support (Usually Local NGOs)
Reports to::       Sr. Executive Field Officer in PA in charge of Village Ecodevelopment
Responsibilities:    provide qualified personnel to participate in microplanning, including
establishment of EDCs, carrying out of PAMIA, and drawing up of reciprocal
commitments;
provide any required training in microplanning techniques for team members and
EDCs;
provide personnel to conduct feasibility analysis of proposed village
ecodevelopment investments;
provide technical and managerial assistance to EDCs during implementation of
activities;
participate in monitoring of village ecodevelopment activities and assist EDCs in
conducting participatory monitoring;
participate in annual review of village ecodevelopment activities;
provide periodic financial and progress reports to PA authorities as mutually
agreed; and
promote good relations between PA authorities and EDCs and help in prevention
and resolution of conflicts.
Duration:          Five years. In some cases initiated during PPF period.
Qualifications:    Organization with long-term field experience in facilitation of participatory
microplanning and implementation support for small scale community-based
natural resource management investments. Fluency in local languages.
10
Although the per PA limit to 18% of regular ecodevelopment investments would apply.



140                                  Annex 8
Draft Terms of Reference for PA Social Scientist
Reports to:         Sr. Executive Field Officer in PA in charge of Village Ecodevelopment
Responsibilities:  To conduct village microplanning as part of core planning team and in
conjunction with local-level FD staff, NGOs and local people
To assess feasibility of village ecodevelopment investments with emphasis on
socioeconomic criteria and report findings to FD and villagers
To identify socioeconomic related training needs and sources for village
ecodevelopment activities
To monitor socioeconomic aspects of village ecodevelopment investments as part
of overall monitoring plan for project area
To prepare annual reviews of socioeconomic aspects of village ecodevelopment
activities including microplanning
Duration:          It is anticipated that this sociologist would be hired during the PPF period and the
contract extended pending a review for project duration.
Qualifications:    Professional experience in rural development at village level with interest in
natural resource management issues, especially PA management, experience with
indigenous people, women ,and other marginalized groups, and working in
multidisciplinary teams; at minimum Bachelor's degree in relevant subject e.g.,
sociology, anthropology; relevant Master's degree desirable.
H. Training Requirements
73.    Scope. In addition to the direct in-situ training provided by this on-going technical
assistance, NGO skills would be mobilized to provide specialized training courses in
participatory methods and areas of technical competence. Since many smaller local NGOs
may also lack these skills, training courses will also need to include their personnel.
Guidelines will be developed by national NGO consultants to provide a basis for this
training and further refine the roles and responsibilities of the microplanning team.
74.    Indicative Training Plan. Each State has developed a training plan for
microplanning and implementation support personnel as well as EDC members. As listed
in the sample training plan in the table below this will likely include: microplanning team
training by qualified NGOs and training institutes, intensive training of senior PA
personnel at the Wildlife Institute of India's ecodevelopment course, management and
technical training for inexperienced local NGOs, and study tours for PA field staff and
EDC members to other ecodevelopment areas. Such study tours for the teams and village
ecodevelopment leaders have proven an effective tool for introducing new ideas and
building confidence in achieving results in participatory settings. In addition to the training
courses listed in the indicative training program, the village ecodevelopment investment
funds themselves would used to provide training to EDC participants wherever required.



Indicative Training Plan: Village Ecodevelopment Component
Course                Methodology    Participants per    Objectives                             Resource Agencies   Duration         Frequency
Course
Microplanning team    course with     PA staff, NGOs    Learn microplanning methodologies,      Regional NGOs &      1-2 weeks       2-4 per year in
training              practical                         including PRA, group dynamics, technical   Training Institutes               Years 1-3
training                         options
NGO training          short course    local NGOs        NGO management skills, including        Regional NGOs &      2 weeks         1-2 per year in
accounting, administration & technical  Consultants                         Years 1-2
exposure
Ecodevelopment        intensive short  Ecodevelopment   Impart skills in PRA techniques,        WII Dehradun         4 months        1 per year in Years
course         Officer/ACF       preparation of microplans, and                                                1 to 4
implementation of ecodevelopment
programs
EDC study tours      study tour      EDC members,    Exposure to approaches in                  Other PAs in        2 weeks         2-4 per year in       ;
RO & FG           ecodevelopment, EDC operations,         country                              Years 1 to 5
biodiversity conservation
Seminars/ workshops   workshop        PA personnel,     biodiversity conservation, ecodevelopment,   Various institutions   1-2 days  2 per year
NGOs & EDCs    participatory monitoring
Staff study tours     study tour      ACF, RO, FGs      Exposure to park management,            Other PAs in         1-2 weeks       2 per year in Years
ecodevelopment, interpretation, tourism  country                             1-4
development, revenue generation
0a






143                              Annex 9
Annex 9: Environmental Education and Visitor Management
Background
1.    The theoretical possibility of conserving resources within a forest or protected area
(PA) by closing it to all external disturbances and threats by force is remote. Such an approach
might succeed in those few PAs located in remote and low-population density areas, but in
reality most PAs (particularly those in India) are located in close proximity to dense human
settlements. Their survival therefore depends heavily on the attitudes of the local people, and
the public and political support for the PA at local, state, and national levels. An important part
of the PA authorities responsibility is therefore to justify the existence of the PA and the
management policies chosen and implemented in it to politicians, bureaucrats, and the wider
public.
2.    In India, decisions for establishing PAs were largely made by government
administrators. Although there has been political support for the establishment of the PAs,
it is questionable whether politicians and the public will continue to accept the status quo,
as pressures for land and resources increase. PAs, therefore, are unlikely to survive in the
ffiture unless the real benefits they confer are appreciated by the whole community.
3.    Visiting PAs can help build appreciation, but but without good management,
visitors can also adversely affect the bioidversity. All the project areas contain a variety of
visitor facilities in and around the PAs that tend to put a strain on environmental
resources. In some cases these facilities are based around such established infrastructure as
hunting lodges, forest rest houses, forest roads. In others new facilities have been
developed in the past 20 to 30 years to meet visitor demand. The pressure is most acute in
Periyar, which annually receives 10 million pilgrims and 350,000 tourists and
Ranthambhore which receives 30,000 tourists and 20,000 pilgrims. In Periyar, the negative
effects of such large numbers of visitors is particularly intense as they cluster around river
trips, popular driving routes, and the Sabrimala shrine. Local people and other
entrepreneurs establish lodges and tea-shops along the route to the temple and remove
firewood to supply the lodges and tea-shops from the PA.
4.    The village ecodevelopment component would include significant support for
environmental education and participtory ecotourism programs integrated into the overall
microplanning support activities. To avoid overlapping categories, the environmental education
activities would be aimed at audiences outside the target villages of the village ecodevelopment
component and the visitor activities would be aimed at the broader management framework.
Design of the Environmental Education and Awareness Strategy and Plan
5.    Each PA would develop its own environmental education and awareness (EEA)
strategy and plan. It would include identification of the different issues and target groups
to be covered by the program; the nature and types of activities for each target group; the
programs to link PA interpretation centers with extension and education; linkages with
other EEA programs of NGOs, universities, and schools; and institutional, informational,
research, training, manpower, financial, and organizational needs for its design and
implementation.



144                              Annex 9
6.    Professional educators, communicators, scientists, sociologists, NGOs, school
teachers and PA staff would collaborate in a workshop to reach consensus on the broad
concepts of the EEA strategy and the technical and specialist services needed for its
preparation. Preparation of the plan could be contracted out to a nodal organization or
NGO, like the Center for Environmental Education (Ahmadabad), Wildlife Institute of
India, etc.
Visitor Information and Interpretation Services
7.    Interpretation centers would be developed to educate the visitor on the PA, the
objectives of the PA, and the policies that govern its management. A properly designed
PA interpretation program would serve to awaken public awareness of the park purposes
and policies and develop a concern for its protection. It would also educate the visitor to
appreciate the importance of the PA to the region and the nation and thereby create a
constituency in support of the PA. This group can become an important ally in lobbying
for political support for conservation.
8.    There are a number of techniques available to communicate information about the
PA. All have particular uses and it is usually advisable to use several methods to get
maximum impact. The following are widely used methods for communicating with
visitors: brochures and leaflets, specialized guides and checklists, nature camps, self-
guided and guided trails and tours, audio-visual presentations, field demonstrations and
exhibits, etc. These are not discussed further as a number of reference manuals are
available for developing them. However it must be recognized that for maximum
effectiveness, these programs must be simple, easy to interpret and understand, in the local
language, directly related to the local situation, with low technology inputs and costs, and
easy to maintain.
9.    PA authorities will contract the services of an architectural consultant or firm to
design the interpretation center to fit, as far as practical, with the local architecture,
landscape, and environment of the area. The design and installation of the interpretation
program and materials would also be contracted out to a suitable NGO or institution. The
programs implemented through the interpretation centers would be designed around the
languages, customs, and lifestyles of the local people, keeping in mind the particular local
relationship between people and PA.
Education Programs for School Children
10.   Educating school children in PA neighborhoods on the values and importance of
PAs is an effective strategy for getting broad-based long-term support for conservation.
School children and youth can be brought to the PA to provide them with an experience
and understanding of its role and importance; or the conservation message can be taken to
the classrooms (through lectures and talks, audio-visual presentations, etc.). The former
could use day visits to the PAs and nature camps; or it could involve groups (particularly
of higher grade students) in short assignments to get them involved in PA activities (such
as setting up nature trails, animal surveys and census, establishing botanical collections or
study topics of interest, etc.). These programs would require simple and inexpensive
accommodation facilities such as dormitories or tents.



145                             Annex 9
11.   A major component of the environment education program for children would be
provided through training workshops for school teachers. There are many tools available
in India (WWF Biodiversity Conservation Teaching Manual), but they are in English and
not in local languages . The EEA therefore, must try to produce a teacher's sourcebook or
adapt nationally-available materials to the local situation and language to help the teacher
in his or her presentation of the PA's special features and values and on general
environmental issues relevant to the area. Providing the teachers with these materials
would free PA staff time for other critical work.
Mass Media Campaigns for Creating Public Awareness
12.   The use of mass media in developing countries has shown phenomenal growth in
recent years. India's rapid advance in opening up its markets and liberalizing its economy,
is likely to increase enormously the use of radio, television, print media, and other
communication media. The mass media can and should be used for urban receivers. At this
level, schools and universities, policy makers, and bureaucrats can all be successfully
reached through distance education and general programs; the wide reach of mass media
gives it enormous potential for disseminating and educating the general public and national
and state level decision-makers of the country. At the rural level, however, being tailored
to local-specific issues, it has less flexibility in providing education and awareness.
Alternate Methods for Creating Environmental Awareness in PA
Surroundings
13.   India and the region as a whole has many examples of alternate methods for
education in the rural sector that would be easily adapted to this project. Examples include
street or village theater a powerful tool for communicating socially meaningful messages;
street plays, processions and protest marches to bring awareness on scientific and
environmental matters; slide shows, posters, leaflets, exhibitions, street corner
discussions, and magazines; video linked with other media (example: discussions,
lectures, visits, etc.); local extension radio giving advice and hearing complaints on issues
relevant to the locality; puppetry to make people aware of their rights; and folk media
such as folk epics and ballads, folk songs and dances, and folk tales.
14.   These alternate methods would persuade rural audiences to support conservation
of PAs and nature in general. They provide an opportunity to gain a better understanding
of people's needs and ti establish confidence through dialogue. They also permit a very
flexible approach to communication and can emphasize personal communication and local
traditions in ways that may be more easily accepted by local people.
15.   Involving children in these programs is important for two reasons. First, many
children in the remote rural areas of India do not attend school so an alternative
environment education program outside the school is necessary to reach them. Second,
children's concerts and activities always evoke greater participation on the part of local
politicians, mothers, and, gradually, fathers also. Children can also be trained as
communicators and made to talk to rural folk in their villages and at organized local
meetings.



146                             Annex 9
16.   Environment education must not only focus on conservation issues. It must also
reconsider the importance of human economic needs and cultural traditions in developing
ideas on conservation. In developing the communication strategy, the following points
must be kept in mind: (i) communication should not be in isolation; (ii) a multi-media
approach is more effective; (iii) the content of the program is important; (iv) there should
be sharing of ideas; (v) and there should be continuation. To determine the right kind of
medium and message for a particular audience both should be pre-tested and re-cast as
and when required on the strength of feedback from the audience. This would require
some monitoring and frequent evaluation of the program. The design and implementation
of the outreach education and awareness programs for the PAs would be largely managed
through NGOs in the area. Some of the NGOs would have experience working with
tribals. The project provides resources for contracting NGOs, for education vehicles,
equipment and materials.
Visitor Management and Participatory Ecotourism Strategy
17.   To minimize the threat to the environment from visitors, and maximize benefits to
local communities in ways that increase their stakes in long-term conservation, each PA
would prepare a management and participatory ecotourism strategy that would address
the following questions.
(a)   Is the scale of development appropriate for the local community and for the
capacity of the environment to support the facility?
(b)   What zoning measures are needed to reduce the threat to the environment?
(c)   Are roads and any trails placed to minimize intrusion on the environment?
(d)   What measures need to be taken during construction to minimize negative
effects on the environment?
(e)   Does the design for the facility make use of indigenous cultural building
forms and materials found in the surrounding areas?
(f)    Are energy sources environmentally sound and sustainable?
(g)   Are appropriate technologies employed for the treatment of organic and
other wastes?
(h)   What measures have been taken to prevent erosion?
(i)    How far do modifications and/or additions divert existing visitor pressures
on the PA?
( j)    How far were local people actively involved in planning and construction?
(k)   How far are local people involved in current operations?
(1)   In existing facilities, is the number of resident employees within the
enclaves necessary or is there scope for reduction?
Terms of reference for this study are included at the end of this annex.



147                                   Annex 9
Managing Enterprise and Visitor Enclaves
18.    The project would support investments associated with implementing the
ecotourism and visitor strategies and with improving the management of public and
private infrastructure and facilities within enclaves or adjacent to the PAs. In some PAs
existing facilities have a large residential population of staff and laborers or attract large
numbers of visitors, which results in disturbance to wildlife and depletion of forest
resources to meet fuelwood, grazing, and food needs of the residents and visitors. Where
appropriate the project would support investments of civil works, equipment, and
materials, that the visitor management and ecotourism strategies recommend in order to
better manage energy, water and timber, solid waste disposal, and access needs of these
facilities, as well as the number of resident employees. The project would also help to
support proposed investments arising from research on the impacts of these installations
on wildlife and biodiversity.
Draft Terms of Reference: PA Environmental Education and Awareness
Strategy and Action Plan
Reports to:         PA Field Director
Objectives:         To develop a strategy and action plan that communicates reasons for the existence
of the PA and associated PA management policies.
Responsibilities:    Identify and evaluate existing programs of environmental education and awareness
of PA aathorities, NGOs, and other groups in and around the PA.
Identify and evaluate the existing capacity and capabilities of local and regional
institutions fForest departments, NGOs, educational institutions, etc.) for planning
and conducting education and awareness programs around the PA.
Identify the different target audiences (local communities, visitors, politicians and
decision makers, school children and youth, PA staff, other regional development
agencies, etc.) that should be covered in a PA education and awareness program,
and review their education status and perceptions about the PA.
Identify key issues that need to be covered in an education and awareness program
in the PA.
Define the range or types of tools and programs that need to be aimed to the
different target groups.
Based on the above, define an education and awareness strategy for the PA. This
strategy should provide broad guidance on the focus of PA interpretation
programs; linkages between education programs of other agencies and NGOs;
institutional, informational, research, training, manpower, financial, and
organizational aspects of education.
Develop an action plan for implementation of the strategy, including activities for
visitor information and interpretation; education activities for school children,
specific programs for local communities and linkage with the village
ecodevelopment activities; mass media campaigns and programs; programs of
alternative media for creation of awareness among rural audiences, etc. This plan
should include institutional arrangements, training, and research needs and costs
for implementation.



148                                  Annex 9
In the preparation of the above strategy and action plan, conduct participatory
meetings, seminars, and workshops in order to solicit views and comments of the
full range of stakeholders and potential target audiences.
Duration:          Approximately four months.
Qualifications:    An organization or NGO with experience in design and implementation of
environmental education and awareness programs for over five years. Preference
would be given to organizations or NGOs that have prepared or implemented
education and awareness programs on PA conservation, wildlife, or related
subjects, and demonstrated sensitivity to tribals and other disadvantaged groups.
Draft Terms of Reference: Design/installation of Interpretation Center and
Program
Reports to:        PA Field Director
Objectives:        To design the interpretation center building and equipment supported under the
project that meets the objectives of the PA's environmental education program.
Responsibilities:  Consult with the PA authorities to ascertain the objectives, scope, and extent of the
PA interpretation and education program that needs to be implemented in the PA,
and how it fits within the broader environmental education and awareness strategy
(see preceding TOR).
Identify an appropriate location for the construction of the interpretation center,
keeping in mind issues of visitor access and numbers and availability of utilities.
Prepare a lay out plan for the interpretation facility and its immediate
surroundings.
Design the center, taking into consideration the location, objectives and content of
the interpretation program, visitor numbers, local environmental conditions,
landscape and local architecture.
Provide supervisory support to the PA authorities during the construction of the
building and development of its surroundings.
Design and install the interpretation equipment and materials within the center,
keeping in mind the need to provide an interactive education experience on the
objectives and value of the PA and the resources contained therein, create an
awareness of the linkage between conservation of the PA and the village
ecodevelopment program, and provide an overall education experience to PA
visitors and neighbors.
Duration:          Approximately two years
Qualifications:    A firm or individual with architectural and education qualifications. Experience in
the design of public use buildings and in education and awareness equipment and
materials.
Draft Terms of Reference: Environmental Education Implementation
Reports to:        PA Field Director
Objectives:        To implement a broad based education and awareness program (based on agreed



149                                    Annex 9
strategy and action plan) for the PA, including education programs in schools,
villages, and rural audiences .
Responsibilities:   Conduct lectures, talks, and audio-visual presentations in schools.
Organize nature camps, demonstrations, and short field exercises for school
children and youth.
Establish and/or promote school nurseries, small environmental projects, and other
innovative education programs.
Plan and conduct alternative media programs for rural audiences, including street
theater, marches, slide shows, folk dances, etc.
Provide education and extension support to the village ecodevelopment program.
Implement other activities identified in the environmental education and
awareness strategy and action plan.
Duration:           Five years
Qualifications:     Local NGO with experience in the conduct of enviromnental education and
awareness programs at the local level for at least five years, and with the capacity
to implement a five year program.
Draft Terms of Reference for PA-Level Visitor Management and
Participatory Ecotourism Strategy
Reports to:         PA Field Director.
Responsibilities:   Overall, to develop a participatory ecotourism strategy that would include
necessary elements of local participation, sound environmental design, visitor
management, marketing, conservation education, training, financial sustainability
and monitoring and evaluation.
More specifically, to assess current:
- tourism situation and potential; to determine a desirable tourism situation and
identify steps to reach this situation; to prepare a Participatory Ecotourism
Strategy for the project area. The development of the strategy should be
participatory actively involving stakeholders through workshops, meetings, etc.
The strategy should also address the following necessary elements:
- potential PA attributes relevant for ecotourism, identification of sites for
ecotourism activities, development of mechanisms to monitor ecological impact of
tourism;
- visitation information and levels, identify marketing opportunities for
ecotourism; development of guidelines for visitor and staff behavior in PAs,
identification of educational requirements for visitors and staff e.g. visitor center,
brochures, development of mechanisms to collect and monitor visitation data for
marketing and management purposes;
- infrastructure, development of plan for future modification if required,
development of guidelines for environmentally sound and culturally appropriate
designs,
- appropriate PA staffing levels for tourism, identification of future requirements
and training needs and sources for PA and other stakeholders;



150                                      Annex 9
participation in tourism; identify appropriate organizational structure for
managing ecotourism; identify mechanisms to increase long-term local
participation in both benefit-sharing and decision-making, identify local training
needs, development of monitoring and evaluation plans to assess local
participation and benefit-sharing;
- linkages with regional infrastructure and attractions, identify areas for
modification and development, identify relevant government and private sector
parties;
- legal framework for tourism activities, establish administrative and legal
requirements for any proposed changes e.g. zoning, entry-fees, revenue-sharing
with local communities, identify policy considerations for ecotourism strategies,
assessment of current financial provisions for tourism management, identify
activities for modification or introduction of practices to improve financial
sustainability;
- private-public sector linkages related to tourism, identify opportunities for future
collaboration, develop guidelines for collaborations;
- and required skills and possible individuals and organizations required to carry
out above activities plus time schedules, budgetary requirements and possible
funding sources for above elements;
Duration:            six to nine months.
Qualifications:      Organization with experience in ecotourism management and participatory
planning. Expertise in project analysis and preparation; consensus building and
training skills. .



151                             Annex 10
Annex 10: Impact Monitoring and Research on Issues
Relevant to PA Management and Ecodevelopment
A. Introduction
1.    Monitoring (of project impacts, institutions and processes) and research are two
related, but different and equally important activities of the project. Through repetitive
data collection, monitoring assesses the ecological and socioeconomic impacts of the
project to determine whether these are in agreement with those anticipated. Monitoring
would also assess the effectiveness of project institutions and processes in meeting project
objectives. In contrast, research would meet the critical information needs for PA
management and village ecodevelopment activities. While research discovers useful
guidelines for management, rationalization of PA boundaries, and zonation, monitoring
uses scientific and other evidences to assess whether a particular management action had
the desired results.
2.    Monitoring and research are, however, parallel activities with continuous feed
backs. A comprehensive monitoring strategy for PA management is being developed for
the first time in India. Considerable research input is necessary therefore to design a
monitoring system, that will identify indicators, sampling and analytical methods, and feed
backs. Similarly, monitoring would generate research questions on cause-and-effect
relationships that need to be answered in order to make recommendations for project
adjustment.
B. Monitoring
Strategy
3.    Conceptual Framework. The monitoring of ecological and socioeconomic
impacts of this project would be based on a conceptual framework that would address the
objectives of the project. The framework would embrace PA values, anticipated changes,
indicators, sampling methods, analytical methods, mechanisms of feedback and project
adjustment, roles and responsibilities for monitoring, and other considerations. More
specifically, the conceptual framework for the monitoring would address the following
questions:
(a)   What is the purpose of the monitoring and who are the clients?
(b)   What key questions require answers?
(c)   What indicators, methods of measurement and analysis would be used (and
what criteria were used to determine their selection)?
(d)   What would be the roles and responsibilities of state forest development
(SFD) staff and cooperating institutions, (including of local communities)
in participatory monitoring?
(e)   What would be the mechanisms for incorporating information into projects
already in progress?



152                             Annex 10
4.    Objectives of monitoring. Monitoring through a consistent set of measures
would periodically do the following:
(a)   Provide an integrated view of the present status of biodiversity in the PA
(b)   Provide an integrated view of the socioeconomic conditions and
interactions between PAs and people inside and immediately around the PA
that are relevant to the project
(c)    Assess their trends in conditions and interactions
(d)   Evaluate whether the project activities, institutions, and process have had
the desired and anticipated effects
(e)   Identify project components, the absence, inadequacy or ineffectiveness of
which cause non-compliance with expected values
(f)    Provide guidelines for project adjustment in the light of evaluation.
5.    PA values. The PAs coming under the project have important biodiversity values
which are of regional, national, and international significance. The progressive erosion of
these values is of concern and their restoration is the objective of the PA management and
of this project. These values range from habitats of single species (e.g., lion in Gir), large
prey-predator systems (e.g., Pench and Ranthambhore), to ecosystems with very high
species richness and endemism (Periyar and Buxa). Other values relate to PA-people
interactions such as traditional knowledge systems (e.g., ethnobotany), tourism, watershed
etc. One or more measurable indicators that together describe the values would form the
basis for evaluation.
6.    Anticipated changes. A statement of anticipated changes on the status of
biodiversity in the PA, disturbance factors, and relevant socioeconomic attributes would
form a set of predetermined standards, or template. Against this template, the findings
from monitoring would be compared and evaluated. Such statements would address the
current status (e.g., pristine, sustainable, and degraded use areas) and expected
trajectories. In the case of project activities, institutions, and processes, the statement
would reflect what is expected from project plan.
Indicators
7.    Ecosystems in the PAs and the mutual impact of their interaction with people are
so complex that an assessment of their status and trends would be based on a set of
indicators. In order to develop a conceptual framework and guide their selection,
measurement, and evaluation, indicators, would be placed in several categories. These
categories reflect the values for which the PA is being managed, the control and mitigation
of threats to the project, and project institutions and processes.
8.    Response Indicators. Response indicators closely and clearly relate to the
biodiversity values of the PA and of PA-people interactions, in a practical context.
Response indicators include ecosystem structure, function, and processes. They must be
sensitive to disturbance but stable under natural conditions so that changes due to
disturbance and management can be detected. Assemblages of several species often found



153                             Annex 10
together have considerable conservation value in indicating endemism, rarity, regional
characteristics, etc. Typical examples would be herpetofauna in the rain forests of the
western Ghats (Periyar) and the large prey-predator and associated floral community in
central India (e.g., Pench). Such characteristic faunal and floral assemblages would be
used as key indicators to detect and measure change. This approach would be preferable
to the past practices of using a few indicator species or an inventory of all the species.
Indicators of ecosystem processes would include productivity, regeneration etc.
9.    Habitat Indicators. These would be used to estimate the expected range of
ecological conditions and to identify the likely causes of changes in response indicators.
These indicators would include physical structure of the habitat (e.g., soil types, habitat
complexity), or processes (e.g., siltation, erosion, water flow).
10.   Stress or Disturbance Indicators. These measure the activities (often human) and
other processes (natural) that are the sources of disturbance, and cause changes in the
response indicators. Typical examples would include grazing, fuel wood removal, and
tourism
11.   Socioeconomic Indicators. These reflect attributes of human populations in and
around the PA that are of relevance to PA management and this project because of mutual
interactions and impacts between them and the PA. Particular attention should be paid to
impacts on vulnerable groups, especially tribals and women.
12.   Reciprocal Commitment Indicators. Indicators of reciprocal commitments
pinpoint activities that are expected to affect both the socioeconomic and disturbance
indicators and thus to have positive effects on the response indicators.
13.   PA Management Indicators. These indicators would measure the effect of PA
management activities proposed in the project.
14.   Institutions and Processes. These indicators would assess the impacts and
effectiveness of the new institutions and processes of each project component and the
project as a whole.
15.   Selection Criteria for Indicators. The following considerations would be used on
the selectopm of indicators:
(a)   Would closely and clearly relate to the predetermined benchmarks
(b)   Possibility of integrating over time and space to enable comparisons
(c)    Availability of historical data for retrospective monitoring
(d)   Applicability to a wide variety of areas to enable consistency across PAs
(e)   Cost-effectiveness: maximum information with minimum sampling time and
effort.
(f)    Amenable to sampling by non-specialists; e.g.,. quantification should be
simple
(g)   Detectability of trends



154                            Annex 10
(h)   Ability to distinguish between succession, cycles, random changes,
disturbance, and mitigation
(i)    Wide dissemination of knowledge about indicators
(j)    Simplicity and elegance without over simplification.
Sampling
16.   The sampling design would address methods, intensity and interval, precision,
interobserver reliability, personnel and logistic needs, and data storage and retrieval. Once
the indicators have been selected there is often a wide range of methods available to
measure them. The overall sampling area for each PA would be estimated from remote
sensing and/or field surveys. Vegetation status would be determined by remote sensing,
transects, or quadrants. Animal presence/absence or absolute/relative abundance would be
assessed from quadrants or line transects (either through direct sightings or indirect
evidences such as pellets and scats); invertebrates by soil samples, light traps, butterfly
nets, etc. The sampling locations could be temporary or random. Socioeconomic sampling
would be field based, interview based, or both; interviews would be closed- or open-
ended.
17.   The time interval between sampling could be annual, biannual (dry and wet
periods), seasonal, or monthly. Since for most living organisms a year forms a natural
cycle, yearly monitoring would be sufficient in most cases. However, many indicators of
processes (e.g., productivity, grazing) are seasonal in nature, and thus would require
biannual or even seasonal sampling. The sampling design would also address requirements
for personnel and their expertise and the scope for participatory monitoring, especially of
socioeconomics and disturbance indicators. Generally, the sampling design would:
(a)   Be sensitive to the nature and extent of change anticipated
(b)   Allow relocation of sampling points
(c)   Allow objective and verifiable recording
(d)   Have recording procedures within the capability of the local management
(e)   Ensire that significant but unforeseen changes do not go unnoticed
(f)    Use optimal sampling precision is optimal in relation to sampling intensity
(g)   Use sampling interval that reflects seasonal cycles.
Development Process:
18.   Analytical Framework for Analysis and Decision Making. The analysis and
interpretation of indicator and other data would be in the context of ecosystem theory,
known threats, and project activities. The results would be integrated into information
useful to decision makers and other interest groups. The analytical framework would
consist of the following:
(a)   A conceptual model of the mutual interactions and relationships among the
various sets of indicators



155                            Annex 10
(b)   A statistical model for testing trends in response indicators in relation to
changes in other indicators. More specifically,
(i)   determine whether the nature and extent of changes on PA values
reflected in the response indicators correspond to
(ii)   quantitatively associate such changes with other specific indicators
(c)   An appropriate set of summaries and aggregations of indicators and
derived indices that facilitate easy perception of trends and changes in PA
values and the impacts of specific project components.
(d)   Clearly stated subjectivity in the selection, monitoring, and interpretation of
indicators and derived indices
(e)   Guidelines on reporting intervals and formats.
19.   Mechanisms for Project Adjustment. Mechanisms for feed back into project and
PA management would ensure project adjustment in response to findings from monitoring.
Active participation of PA management personnel and local people would ensure that
there is an ongoing interaction between monitoring and management. More over, periodic
reports and guidelines from the monitoring organization would also ensure changes to
substantive project design.
20.   Development of Monitoring System. The impact monitoring system would
consist of:
(a)   Conceptual framework addressing the above issues
(b)   A potential set of indicators for each PA
(c)   Sampling design, to meet personnel, logistic, and training needs
(d)   Participatory monitoring
(e)   A framework for analysis and decision making
(f)    Mechanisms for feedback and project adjustment
The conceptual framework would be developed into a monitoring system through
consultations with other scientists, PA management, local people, and NGOs; through
pilot studies on some PAs to assess sampling precision, resource needs, etc.; and through
peer review
21.   Operation of Monitoring System. Once an impact monitoring system has been
designed to cover all PAs, monitoring would be carried out by the research coordinating
organization in each PA. The first step in the process would be the adoption of the
national monitoring system design to local conditions through a consultative process. This
is the first time that India is developing a comprehensive monitoring system, and the initial
stages would be a learning exercise requiring the total attention of a dedicated team of
scientists interacting closely with PA managers and other interested groups. The
coordinating organization would oversee the following:



156                             Annex 10
(a)   Estimation of the current status, extent, and trends in response indicators,
and associated human threats
(b)   Measuring the response, habitat, and disturbance indicators, and indicators
of project activities, institutions, and process
(c)   Providing periodic reports on impacts and effectiveness of project
activities, and guidelines on project adjustment.
(d)   Periodic review of monitoring design to incorporate new information.
22.   Other Design Considerations. The following are the other considerations in the
impact monitoring design:
(a)   Monitoring is a long term activity that needs organization, long term
funding, and commitment. Simplicity at every stage of monitoring,
especially in data collection and analysis, would minimize personnel,
expertise and financial requirements for long term monitoring. Moreover,
the association of local research organization in monitoring would ensure
the availability of local expertise if needed
(b)   The monitoring system adopted at the beginning of the project would be
updated based on the experience gained as the project progresses
(c)    Quality control at every stage of monitoring would be enhanced by
training, standardization of data collection procedures, and peer review
(d)   Developing a comprehensive monitoring program for complex terrestrial
ecosystems with many pathways of impact is a challenging task. Since a
comprehensive monitoring system is being developed in India for the first
time, the conceptual model and its elaboration into a monitoring system
initially would depend largely on experiences elsewhere in the world,
supported with only limited field tests. This monitoring system would be
constantly upgraded (ensuring continuity) through feedbacks from research
(e)   In order to create awareness among the public on the status of biodiversity
in the PA and about project impacts, the findings from monitoring would
be made available to a wider audience other than the PA management and
project personnel. The environmental awareness program of the project,
project newsletters, periodic review meetings, and scientific meetings and
publications would be used as media for this. Participatory monitoring
would also ensure that the local people, NGOs, etc., are aware of the
project impacts. The monitoring data would be made available to those not
associated with the project, for further analysis and peer review. The
organization that designs the monitoring system would elaborate on the
mechanisms for dissemination of findings from monitoring.
23.   Performance Monitoring Indicators. After the impact monitoring system is
designed, a summary of its key feaatures will need to be integrated into the Performance
Monitoring Indicators Matrix (Annex 16).



Table 1: Impact Monitoring Matrix
PA values/Project        Indicators                         Sampling tools                 Sampling         Assessment criteria
activities                                                                                interval
I    PA VALUES
1.1   Regional Landscape
Physical habitat &       Land cover types, vegetation status,   Remote sensing, GIS, ground  Retrospective,  Changes in ecosystem
ecosystem richness &     isolation and fragmentation, spp   surveys, spp inventories,     baseline, annual  richness & diversity, extent
complexity, Collective spp  richness, percentage of endemic and   vegetation studies       and end point    of degradation, changes in
richness and endemism,    rare spp, status of corridors for                                                 presence of spp or spp
Regional connectivity    animal movement                                                                    assemblages of significance,
regional connectivity
Watershed values         Water flow in streams, rivers,     Meteorological data, water flow    Retrospective,    changes on water tables
ground water level etc.           measurements                   seasonal
1.2  Ecosystem/community
Types and extent,        Ecosystem types and area,          Remote sensing, GIS, ground    Baseline,        Changes in area,
continuity, spp richness,   fragmentation, vegetation status spp   surveys of vegetation structure    biennial, end  fragmentation and
rarity, and endemism,    composition, richness, diversity,  and composition, faunal       point; and        degradation, species
ecosystem integrity      abundance, percentage, rarity &    abundance studies, biomass    seasonal          composition, productivity,
endemism, exotics, weeds,         estimation, visual damage                       nutrient cycling,
productivity, nutrient cycling,   survey                                          regeneration, weed coverage
regeneration.
spp=species
Note: This matrix lists possible options. Specific indicators and tools would be selected from this list on the basis of maximizing the cost-effectiveness of
monitoring expenditures.
m
(D
x
I-



PA values/Project        Indicators                         Sampling tools                 Sampling         Assessment criteria
activities                                                                                 interval
1.3  Species/populations
Endangered spp, prey-    Abundance, life history, population    Presence/absence & abundance    Annual,     Changes in population
predator system, key-stone  growth rate, distribution, effective  estimates, age/sex composition    seasonal, &  abundance, age/sex
spp                      population size, dispersal, prey-base,  studies, mortality & natality  continuous  composition, predation
predation pattern                 estimation, scat & kill analysis,               pattern, demography, prey-
radio-telemetry                                 base
1.4  PA-people interactions
Traditional knowledge    Oral & visual knowledge            Ethnographic records,          Baseline, end    Changes in traditional
systems                  Direction of information flow      community survey, informant    point            knowledge systems
interview
Resource management      Traditional land tenure laws,                                                      Change in resource use
systems                  individual land holdings, local                                                    management.
resource extraction, gender roles in
resource use, local regulation in
resource use                                                                                                      t
2    DISTURBANCE
INDICATORS
2.1  Landcover changes         Human land use pattern in and      Remote sensing, GIS, ground   Baseline,         Changes in land use pattern
around PA                         surveys                        annual, end      around & and inside PA
point
2.2   Human resource needs,    Human & live stock density, gazing   Ground surveys, vegetation  Baseline, annual  Changes in grazing and
grazing, fuel wood       intensity, biomass loss due to     studies, interviews.           and seasonal     removal of fuel wood and
removal, NTFP removal.   grazing and fuel wood removal,                                                     NTFP, persons involved,
weed incidence, NTFP removal,                                                     changes in vegetation status
spatial variation, temporal variation.
2.3  Fire damage               Incidence of fire, area affected,  Annual ground surveys, official   Baseline, annual  Changes in the incidence of
critical ecosystems or habitat    records, local information                      fire, extent of area affected,
affected                                                                          status of affected habitats.
2.4   Regional impacts         Nature and types of regional      Regional plans, ground surveys   annual         Impacts on project objectives
activities, impacts on PA ecosystem
area, connectivity, species etc.
x
Note: This matrix lists possible options. Specific indicators and tools would be selected from this list on the basis of maximizing the cost-effectiveness of
monitoring expenditures.



PA values/Project         Indicators                         Sampling tools                  Sampling          Assessment criteria
activities                                                                                   interval
3    SOCIOECONOMICS
3.1   Cultural diversity and    Ethnic groups, composition,        Census, administrative records,   Baseline,       Changes in socioeconomic
Impacts                   demography, socioeconomic and      special studies, PAMIA (PRA)    annual; ongoing   status
cultural dynamics, and impacts     studies
3.2   Resource use pattern      Occupation, consumption pattern,   Census, administrative records,   Baseline, annual  Changes in land tenure,
land tenure, access to PAs for     interviews, field studies                        resource use pattern, access
resource, gender roles                                                              to PAs
3.3   Social infrastructure     Housing, nutrition, education,     Interviews, administrative      Baseline, annual  Changes in social
marketing, recreation,             records                                          infrastructure
transportation, customary laws
3.4   PA impacts                crop damage nature and extent,     Interviews, field measurements    Retrospective,  Changes in the incidence and
compensation, livestock loss, lost  of crop damage, claims for     baseline, annual,  intensity of crop and
grazing opportunity, other lost    compensation                    seasonal         livestock loss, compensation
resources
4   PA MANAGEMENT
4.1   PA boundaries and         Changes in management plans, PA    Administrative records and      Baseline, annual  Changes in ecological
zonation                  boundaries, zonation               maps                                              boundaries of PA and
zonation within PA,
percentage of critical areas
protected
4.2  Infrastructure             Infra-structural development       Administrative records, physical  Baseline, annual
development               (physical), functional indicators  verification
4.3   Animal damage control     Erection of animal damage control    Administrative records, physical  Retrospective,  Changes in the extent of crop
structures, nature and extent of   verification, estimation of crop    annual, seasonal  damage due to wild animals
animal damage                      damage
4.4  Fire control measures      Erection of fire control structures,  Administrative records,      Retrospective,    Changes in the incidence and
incidence of fire, extent of fire  verification, field estimation of    annual, seasonal  intensity of fire, and habitat
damage                             incidence of fire, retrospective                 improvement
data
4.5   Habitat enrichment        Area of habitat enrichment, animal    Administrative records,      Annual, seasonal  Changes in animal use of
measures                  use of those areas                 verification, field studies on                    manipulated habitats            0
animal use of the area                                                           x
Note: This matrix lists possible options. Specific indicators and tools would be selected from this list on the basis of maximizing the cost-effectiveness of
monitoring expenditures.



PA values/Project       Indicators                        Sampling tools                Sampling         Assessment criteria
activities                                                                              interval
5    PROJECT PROCESSES
5.1   Community role in        Devolution of authority to        Local records, minutes of    Baseline, annual  Changes in community roles
managing PA               communities                      meetings, interviews                           in PA management
5.2   Community enforcing PA    Evidence of community role in PA    Local records, minutes of  Baseline, annual  Changes in community roles
protection                protection                       meetings, interviews                           in protection
5.3  Community role in         Participation in microplanning    Local records, minutes of    Annual
microplanning                                              meetings, interviews
5.4   Community participation in  Participation in monitoring    Local records, minutes of    Annual
monitoring impacts                                         meetings, interviews
6    PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
6.1  Regulatory responsibilities   Regulations enforced, compliance  Executive orders, inspection  Baseline, annual  Changes in regulatory
monitored,                       records, administrative records               responsibilities and
functioning                   o
6.2   National coordinating body  Issues coordinated, training   Agendas, meetings, minutes   Baseline, annual  Issues resolved
organized
6.3  Staffing                  Changes in staffing               Budgets, staffing records    Annual           Adequacy of staff
6.4  Infra-structure           Equipment and other facilities    Equipment inventories        Annual           Adequacy of equipment
6.5  Financial resources       Changes in financial resources    Budget requests, annual reports,  Annual      Meeting targets
financial reviews
Note: This matrix lists possible options. Specific indicators and tools would be selected from this list on the basis of maximizing the cost-effectiveness of
monitoring expenditures.
D
x



161                             Annex 10
C. Research
Research Strategy
24.   In order to achieve the objectives of better PA management and ecodevelopment for
conservation of biodiversity, a better understanding of the relevant issues is necessary. An
almost total paucity of information on the ecological and socioeconomic issues in five of the
seven PAs (in Gir and Periyar some research has been carried out), makes necessary a
strenuous effort to generate the critical information through research. Such research should
also address long term information needs of the PAs
25.   In view of the constraints described in Annex 2, research for generating critical
information needs of this project requires a novel and strategic approach. This approach should
address the following:
(a)    The consultative processes and mechanisms necessary to ensure that research
addresses information needs that are critical to this project and to the long term
management of the PA
(b)   The need to develop research interest and expertise in local institutions
around the PAs so that information needs of the PAs are met locally in the
long run
(c)   Mechanisms to ensure that project PAs support and attract sustained
research that would meet their information needs
(d)   Mechanisms to ensure that research findings guide PA management and
ecodevelopment activities on a sustained basis
(e)   Mechanisms for coordination of research both at the national and PA
levels.
26.   The strategic approach to identify critical information needs of the PAs would include
(a) a national level framework that would identify information needs common to all PAs; and
(b) PA level research planning to adapt the national level framework to PA level so as to
include site specific information needs. This planning would not be done by professional
researchers in isolation, but rather through a consultative process involving PA management,
local stake holders, and other interest groups.
27.   Although critical information needs might vary among PAs to some extent, most
information needs are common to them. These needs relate to:
(a)   PA-people interactions; these are:
(i)   impacts of legal or customary human uses such as grazing and
NTFP collection
(ii)  illegal human activities: encroachment, poaching
(iii)  human, livestock and crop depredation
(b)   PA management, which comprises:
(i)   impacts of PA management



162                                  Annex 10
(ii)    zonation and PA boundary with reference to the types and extent of
various ecosystems, and animal ranges
(iii)   impacts and control of forest fire
(iv)    fragile ecosystems or habitats
(v)    key species requiring attention
(vi)   connectivity with surrounding areas
(vii)   population relocation initiatives
(viii)  tourism
(c)    Village ecodevelopment, including:
(i)    structure and dynamics of local communities; cultural heritage and
institutions; traditional knowledge systems
(ii)    socioeconomics: tenure rights, participatory processes in traditional
organizations, access to, use and management of resources
(iii)   income generation opportunities: subsistence employment
opportunities
Table 2 provides examples of research questions related to these topics.
Table 2: Research & Monitoring Approach
(A) "PRESSURE" POINTS FOR MANAGEMENT
kPA P;IORITIES:RESEARCH QUESTIONS                                 NOTES
(1) Human Impacts due to    What is the sustainable yield of     Livestock Grazing, Fodder
Rights & Leases in PA (e.g.,  products or carrying capacity of uses  Extraction, Fuelwood
grazing, NTFP collection)   under traditional rights and leases?  Collection, Timber
What are acceptable mechanisms or    Extraction, Non-Timber
incentives to mitigate, offset or control   Forest Products (NTFP)
excessive pressures on PA?           Collection, Government
Uses, Thoroughfares,
Tourism, Plantations
(2) Illegal Activities in PA  What motivates illegal activities in PA?   Occupation and Use,
(e.g., poaching,            What mechanisms or incentives can be   Encroachment (e.g.
encroachment)               employed for its prevention, mitigation,  Agriculture, Ganja
or off-set?                          Cultivation), Poaching
Offenses (e.g. Elephants,
Ungulates, Teak)
(3) Habitat Degradation and   What causes habitat degradation and  Exotic Weeds and Pests,
Exotic Infestations in PA   exotic infestations in PA? What       Erosion, Quarrying
mechanisms or incentives can be
employed for its arrest, reversal, or
control?
(4) Human or Livestock      What causes human and/or livestock    Tigers, Lions
Depredation by Carnivores    depredation by large carnivores outside
outside PA                  PA? What mechanisms can be used for
its prevention, mitigation, or control?



163                                  Annex 10
PA PRIORITIES                      RESEARCH QUESTIONS            NOTES
(5) Crop Damage outside PA   What causes crop damage outside PA  Elephants, Wild Boar,
by Large & Small           by herbivores or detritivores? What   Langur, Neelgai, Peafowl
Herbivores & Detritivores  mechanisms can be used for its
prevention, mitigation, or control?
(6) Management Practices of  What are the effects of PA management  Fuelwood and Fodder
PA                         practices on biodiversity conservation,    Plantations, Population
if any? What mechanisms can be used    Relocation, Compensations,
to minimize adverse effects?         Tourism Control, Public
Awareness, Extension
(7) Watershed or Land Use    What is the nature and magnitude of  Fires, Floods, Droughts,
Effects on PA               land use and watershed environmental   Water Pollution, Frosts and
effects on PA and biodiversity       Storms, Epidemics
conservation? What policies or
mechanisms can be used to prevent,
mitigate or off-set these effects?
(B) VILLAGE ECODEVELOPMENT IN & AROUND THE P.A.
PA PRIORITIES:                     RESEARCH QUESTIONS            NOTES
(8) Forest Communities     How dependent is the livelihood of    Tribal or Non-tribal
Using PA and Village       forest communities on PA? What        hamlets or villages
Ecodevelopment             development incentives could help
reduce this dependency while
conserving biodiversity?
(9) Socioeconomics of      What are the socioeconomic features   Tenure and Rights,
Community for Village      governing the livelihood of local     Participatory Process,
Ecodevelopment             communities? How can these be used    Access to Resources,
synergetically to enhance their      Cultural Heritage,
sustainable livelihood through       Traditional Resource
ecodevelopment'?                     Management Systems
(10) Scarce Employment     What is the cause for low productivity    Improved agricultural
Opportunities for          and income from traditional activities    "seeds", Cash Crops,
Indigenous Peoples         supporting forest communities? What    Village Industries
opportunities allow for their
improvement through value-added and
employment'.
(11) Public Use of PA for  What is the nature of these public uses    Temple Pilgrimages,
Village Enterprises and    of PA? What policies and incentives   Tourism, Thoroughfares
Employment                 would encourage local community
enterprises and income-generation in
these public uses?
NOTES:
KEY SPECIES: Dominant or Unique Producers (trees, shrubs, grasses, weeds), Consumers (vertebrate
herbivores and carnivores, pests, parasites), Decomposers (termites), Pollinators (bees, thrips), Vectors
(seed dispersal)
ECOSYSTEM TYPES: Major, Unique, Threatened or Degraded Habitats, and Ecosystems



164                              Annex 10
Research Coordination
28.   Since attempts at research by the PA Management have often been unsuccessful,
research is best entrusted to research organisations, universities, and independent researchers.
However, the capacity for research is limited at both the national and local levels, and research
planning, therefore, should address these constraints and consider the capacity that could be
developed during the project. National research institutions have national level mandates and
have to shift their research focus topically and geographically when required. It is, therefore,
inevitable that much of the research must be carried out by local institutions located near the
PA and individual researchers working in the area. This would also build up research interest
and expertise around the PA and support informal groups of scientists who are working in a
particular PA. With adequate financial support PAs would then have a sustainable source of
infornation for PA management. Only very few PAs have local institutions (Kerala Forestry
Research Institute (KFRI) for Periyar and State Forestry Research Institute (SFRI) for Pench)
and have informal groups of scientists (Nagarhole and Ranthambhore) that can independently
conduct socioeconomic and ecological research. Some human capacity development is
necessary for local institutions and individual researchers, for example through training and
collaborative projects with national institutions. A preliminary list of potential local institutions
for conducting research in the PAs is given below. The research strategy would include an
expansion of this list and an additional inventory of the availability and capabilities of individual
researchers.
29.   Given the limited capacity at national and local levels to conduct research in the short
term, research activities in the project should be phased so that the national and local
researchers can absorb the work load and develop their capacity to meet further requirements.
30.   Effective coordination of research both at the national and PA levels is necessary in
order to ensure (a) that research addresses issues of imnmediate and long term relevance to PA
management and ecodevelopment; (b) that these issues are identified through a consultative
process; (c) efficient funding; (d) adequate training for the research staff, (e) smooth conduct of
field studies; (f) timely compilation, evaluation, and dissemination of results; (g) ongoing
interaction among the researchers, PA management, and other interest groups that facilitate
incorporation of research findings in PA management and ecodevelopment activities.
31.   To free PA management from responsibility for administering research funds on a day
to day basis, the entire research funds for a PA may be entrusted with one coordinating
institution. This institution should have the expertise to conduct and coordinate research, and
have adequate financial and administrative flexibility to contract, administer, and subcontract
the research funds if needed. Research coordination in each PA is perhaps best entrusted to a
local research institution, with whom the PA management could interact on a day-to-day basis.
It would be the responsibility of the coordinating research institution to (a) contract research
from PA; (b) subcontract research projects to other individuals and organisations if needed and
to administer the funds; (c) produce periodic and final reports of the research projects; (d)
arrange for periodic independent review of the projects, (e) arrange for short term studies when
requested by the PA management; (f) interact with PA management to facilitate incorporation
of research findings into management.



165                              Annex 10
32.   Although some PAs have local institutions with the capability to coordinate research
(e.g. KFRI for Periyar and SFRI for Pench), others do not have such institutions that are
readily identifiable. An assessment of the capabilities of the local institutions to coordinate
research is thus necessary. In the absence of capable local institutions, research coordination in
some PAs may have to be done by a national institute.
Research Projects
33.   The research requirements are best organized into distinct projects, although these
would not necessarily be mutually exclusive. Some of these would be long-term projects
(2-4 years), while others would be of short duration (up to 18 months). The former would
often address long-term information needs of the PA, the latter would often address
immediate information needs. Short duration projects would also cover information needs
that are identified on a contingent basis as the project progresses. It should be the
responsibility of individuals and organizations contracting individual research projects to
hire research staff (e.g., research fellows) and procure equipment etc., as and when
required. A few potential research projects, that combine several information needs, are
given below. The current limits on capacity for conducting research, mean that only about
4 to 8 major research projects (including ecology and socioeconomics) can be taken up in
each PA during the next five years without substantial reduction in quality. Similarly, only
up to a maximum of about 10 short term projects can be taken up.
34.   The following steps are suggested in the implementation of research in each PA:
(a)   Identification of information needs in consultation with PAs, NGOs,
national and local research institutions, and local people
(b)    Review of existing information to identify gaps
(c)    Formulation of distinct research projects
(d)   Contracting of all research projects to one institution identified as the
coordinating institute
(e)    Continuing interaction between the PA management, researchers, and
coordinating institutions to facilitate the conduct of research and to ensure
that research addresses issues of relevance to management and that PA
management and ecodevelopment activities are guided by research findings
(f)    Periodic compilation, evaluation and dissemination of research findings to
the PA management, scientists, and the public.
35.   Individual research projects are estimated to cost about Rs. 900,000 for long-term
projects (2-4 years) and Rs. 250,000 for short-term projects. The cost of individual projects is,
however, expected to vary by about 20 percent. These costs include equipment needed
specifically for the project, fuel and hiring of vehicle, fellowships, travel and per diem, etc, and
a contracting fee at a specified percentage.
Research Facilities
36.   None of the PAs have basic facilities for research and these would be provided by
the PA management. These would include (a) a research building with accommodation for



166                                  Annex 10
field researchers; (b) a vehicle for research, the use of which would be moderated by the
research coordinating institution; and (c) basic equipment such as a refrigerator, oven, etc.
that would be shared by researchers in the field. Equipment required for specific projects
would be acquired as part of the project. Some PAs would also provide one or two field
stations, for short camping trips away from the main base.
D. Terms of Reference
Terms of Reference for Local Research and Impact Monitoring
Coordinating Organization
Reports to:         PA Field Director
Objectives:         To (a) identify and formulate research projects; (b) call for, evaluate, and
subcontract research proposals; (c)facilitate research and impact monitoring, and
produce periodic reports and reviews; and (d) interact with PA management so as
to incorporate findings into PA management and ecodevelopment. The PA
management would follow the guidelines developed by the national research
coordinator while selecting and contracting the local level research coordinator.
Responsibilities:   Contract the entire research funds from the PA and administer them effectively;
this includes subcontracting to other organizations and individuals if needed;
Identify research issues in consultation with PA management, national research
coordinating institution, and other interest groups;
Formulate research topics and terms of reference, call for, evaluate, and select
research proposals on the identified topics;
Provide training to the research staff so as to develop their capacity to conduct
research;
Facilitate the conduct of research in the field by interacting with local research
advisory committee, PA management, and researchers to ensure availability of
funds, accommodation, vehicle, and basic laboratory equipment provided by the
PA management;
Produce periodic compilation of reports from all the projects, and other reports as
required by the PA management;
Arrange for periodic review and evaluation of research projects;
Interact with PA management and local level research advisory committee to
facilitate incorporation of research findings into PA management and
ecodevelopment activities;
Provide expertise to forest department on other matters related to information
needs.
SFD Obligations:    The PA management would provide (a) funds for research at appropriate intervals;
(b) a contracting fee at a specified percentage of the research funds; (c) base
accommodation and laboratory consisting of basic equipment, including a
computer; (d) one vehicle the use of which would be moderated by the
coordinating organization.
Duration:           Five years
Qualifications:     As specified by national coordinator for research.



167                            Annex 10
Preliminary List of Potential Institutions that Qualify For Research in PAs.
(Potential institutions for coordination of research are marked with *)
1. Buxa Tiger Reserve
Calcutta University, Calcutta
Burdwan University
North Bengal University, Siliguri, West Bengal *
Regional Remote Sensing Agency, Kharagpur, West Bengal
Centre for Social Studies, Calcutta
National Education and Wildlife Service, Calcutta.
WWF-Calcutta
Ramakrishna Mission, Calcutta
Lok Shiksha Parishad, Calcutta
Jadavpur University
2. Gir National Park
Saurashtra University, Rajkot, Gujarat
M. S. University, Baroda, Gujarat
Bombay Natural History Society, Bombay
Gujarat Agricultural University, Junagarh Campus
3. Nagarhole National Park
Centre for Ecological Sciences, Bangalore *
Mangalore University, Mangalore *
Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History, Coimbatore *
Centre for Wildlife Studies, Mysore *
Mysore University, Mysore
MYRADA, Bangalore
4. Palamau Tiger Reserve
Ranchi University, Ranchi
Nature Conservation Society, Daltonganj
5. Pench Tiger Reserve
State Forest Research Institute, Bhopal *
Tribal Research Institute, Bhopal
Tropical Forest Research Institute, Jabalpur
Indian Institute of Forest Management, Bhopal
National Environmental Engineering Research Institute, Nagpur
Sagar University
MAPCOST, Bhopal
6. Periyar Tiger Reserve
Kerala Forest Research Institute, Trissur, Kerala *



168                            Annex 10
Kerala University, Tiruvananthapuram, Kerala
Gandhi University, Kottayam, Kerala
Calicut University, Calicut, Kerala
Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History, Coimbatore*
Centre for Earth Sciences, Tiruvananthapuram, Kerala
Tropical Botanical Garden, Tiruvananthapuram, Kerala
7. Ranthambhore Tiger Reserve
Department of Environment, J.N.V University
Rajasthan University, Jaipur
Rajasthan Agricultural University, Bikaneer
Central Arid Zone Research Institute, Jodhpur
Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi *
Examples of Potential Research Projects
37.   Although the information needs vary among the PAs, much would be common and
basic, since very little research has been carried out in most PAs. The potential for
research depends on:
(a)   The ecological complexity of the PA, a PA with greater biological diversity
at ecosystem or species levels (e.g., Periyar) has greater research potential,
(b)   Complexity of management; a large predator-prey system (e.g., in
Ranthambhore) when confined to a small PA would require greater
information for effective management
(c)   Complexity of human interactions; a PA with a large human population
interacting with it in diverse ways would also require a greater information
input for effective management
38.   The potential for research is also dictated by the capability of local and other
research institutions to conduct research.
39.   Landscape/Ecosystem level studies. Of fundamental importance to PA
management is information on regional landscape (consisting of the PA and surrounds)
and extent and status of communities/ecosystems contained within. This information is
necessary for
(a)   Setting ecological boundaries of the PA
(b)   Zonation of the park into core, buffer, and tourism zones
(c)   Identifying degraded and fragile ecosystems
(d)   Identifying critical animal movement corridors within the PA and in
adjacent areas
40.   (e)   A proper understanding of the role of the PA in regional conservation.



169                             Annex 10
41.   This baseline data, however, is not available for any of the PAs in a form that is of
practical value to the management. This information would also be helpful as a major
element in setting up the monitoring program
42.    The questions addressed could include:
(a)    Types, distribution, extent, fragmentation and linkages at landscape and
ecosystems levels
(b)   Major disturbance regimes at landscape and ecosystem levels; (c) land use
pattern trends
(c)   Fragile ecosystems or habitats
(d)    Size and proportion of ecosystem types protected etc
43.    Research methods would include analysis of satellite images and aerial
photographs with ground truthing, and ground studies on vegetation composition and
status, and disturbance types.
44.   Outputs would include maps showing topography, major land features, water
bodies, classified vegetation, major disturbance regimes, trends in land use changes,
important animal movement corridors etc.
45.   Species/population level studies. Faunal and floral distribution and abundance
with reference to the landscape and ecosystems are critical to PA management for many
reasons:
(a)   Rationalization of PA boundaries and zonation with reference to animal
distribution and movement
(b)   Identification of habitat features (e.g., fodder distribution, water holes) or
management measures (e.g., tourism management, roads) that are critical
to animal distribution
(c)   Identifying seasonal movement pattern of animals, especially large
mammals and its implications for PA management (e.g., crop damage,
water hole management)
(d)   Monitoring the status and management requirements of species or species
assemblages or communities that need particular management attention.
46.   The questions addressed could include:
(a)    The distribution and abundance pattern of species or species groups with
reference to ecosystems or communities and seasonal trends
(b)   Relation of patterns to habitat features and management activities
(c)    The extent of fragmentation of population of species of concern and
management implications
(d)   The life history and demographic characteristics of keystone or threatened
species
(e)   The dietary and other habitat requirements of important species.



170                             Annex 10
47.   The methods employed could include studies on species composition in various
ecosystems on a seasonal basis, population density or other abundance estimates,
estimation of age/sex composition and birth and mortality rates, analysis of habitat
features, etc.
48.   The outputs could include an overlay of animal and plant distribution on the
ecosystem maps, identification of habitat features critical to animal distribution, population
projections of threatened species, etc.
49.   Crop and livestock depredation: Crop damage by wild ungulates and cattle
lifting by large carnivores is a major management problem in many of the PAs. Many of
the PAs have already taken management measures, often on an ad hoc basis, to contain
these problems. These measures include payment of compensation, erection of wildlife
control structures such as electric fencing and stone walls and trenching. However, a
comprehensive assessment of the nature and extent of damage in terms of spatial and
temporal distribution and economic loss to villagers has not been done in any PA. This
would thus form a typical short term project.
50.   Long-term biological research studies. Even though the major focus of research
would be on issues of immediate concern to PA management and village ecodevelopment,
research during the project period would also begin to address issues of long-term
concern. these would include grazing impacts under different management arrangements,
the role of fire in maintaining critical habitats, and long-term studies on critically
endangered species. The phasing of these studies would, however, depend on the capacity
available to undertake research.
51.   PA/People Interactions. Effective PA management will require a better
understanding of relationships between PA resources and human populations. This
information will be essential for assessing the social and economic impacts of PA
establishment and ecodevelopment activities, providing opportunities for local
participation in PA management, improving and contributing knowledge on PA resources
for management purposes, and examining the impact of indigenous and traditional
practices. Generally, the level of research activity on PA/people interactions across the
eight sites is low, if not absent. Some research has been carried out in Gir, Ranthambhore
and Periyar. The scope of research into PA/people interactions is extensive. Potentially
useful projects could include investigations into the following areas.
52.   Indigenous knowledge systems. Indigenous knowledge systems used by human
populations, especially tribal groups, and their contribution to biodiversity conservation
are important. Studies would investigate:
(a)    Cultural aspects of relationships between natural resources in PAs and
people, especially tribal gr-oups
(b)   The management of natural resources through traditional systems of
organization and implications for PA objectives
(c)    The economics of livelihood strategies based on forest resources with
specific foci on women, tribal groups, and other marginal communities.



171                            Annex 10
Studies of this nature are likely to be long-term efforts, although some could be broken
down into short-term research projects. A typical short-term project could investigate the
cultural aspects of collection of a particular non-timber forest product, providing
information within a larger project investigating cultural and ecological aspects of the
activity.
53.   Social organization and participation studies. The village ecodevelopment
component of the project relies on a high level of local participation in the proposed
activities. For this and other similar projects it will be important to investigate the process
and outcomes of participation in ecodevelopment activities. The information will be
critical in refining the microplanning process, developing monitoring plans, and improving
relations between PA authorities, NGOs, and local people. Again, the scope of
investigations in this area is extensive. Potentially useful studies could include the
following:
(a)   The nature and extent of participation in village ecodevelopment activities
(b)   Relationships between the social organization of local communities and
participation in ecodevelopment activities
(c)   Nature of decision-making in local communities and implications for
microplanning and implementation of reciprocal commitments
(d)   Conflict resolution mechanisms in local communities.
54.   Socioeconomic impacts of PA establishment. It will be important to have more
information on the impact of PA establishment on the socioeconomic status of resident
populations and coping strategies adopted. This research would help policy makers to
better understand the dynamics of PA establishment and to evaluate the level of
appropriate compensatory assistance for groups negatively affected, and to evaluate the
minimum level of incentives required.






173                            Annex 11
Annex 11: Project Management Component
A. Overview
1.    The project would continue development of the project implementation strategy
and guidelines initiated with Project Preparation Facility financing. All national-level
support for implementation and capacity development, publicity and dissemination
contracts, implementation reviews and policy and strategy studies, guidelines, and training
programs, is included in the project management component.
2.    National-level Implementation Support and Capacity Development. Specific
tasks would include:
(a)   PA management planning: guidelines and training
(b)   Regional planning and regulation: capacity development
(c)   Environmental review: guidelines and initial scoping,
(d)   Participatory microplanning and development of training program,
(e)   Social assessment review: guidelines and initial scoping
(f)    Village ecodevelopment investments: feasibility and eligibility guidelines
(g)   Environmental education and awareness: guidelines and capacity
development
(h)   Impact monitoring: guidelines
(i)    Research/impact monitoring: strategy and national-level interchange
(j)   Project performance review: guidelines and format
(k)   Broad project management issues: multi-state learning and dissemnination.
3.    Publicity and Dissemination Contracts. The project would include contractual
support for translation of the entire staff appraisal report and selected portions into Hindi
and into native languages of local NGOs and for the public dissemination of the staff
appraisal report, the indicative plan, other relevant project documents, and a semiannual
newsletter; it would also support production of a video on project activities.
4.    Implementation Reviews. The project would support a series of national level
implementation reviews some of which would have a specific focus. In many cases the
project implementation reviews would build upon the initial assessments and guidelines
developed with Project Preparation Facility support, and take a facilitative approach.
However, the project also includes support for independent assessments by specialists not
otherwise involved in the project, in order to ensure transparency and accountability.
Specific task would include:
(a)   Intensive project performance review
(b)   Project expenditure and procurement review
(c)   Annual independent review.



174                                  Annex 11
5.     Policy and Strategy Studies. In the cases of financial sustainability and the
ecotourism strategy, states would conduct their own studies which would be followed by a
national study on each topic that would summarize and integrate the state-level findings,
and address national-level issues. The policy and strategy studies on issues affecting the
long-term institutional arrangements for ecodevelopment would include:
(a)    Financial sustainability
(b)    Ecotourism  and visitor strategy.
(c)    Ecodevelopment incentives and income impacts study
6.     Administrative Support. Government staff would be responsible for most of the
direct and routine PA and national-level project administration, in accordance with staff
plans outlined in Annex 15. They would receive contractual support for project
administration and contract management.
B. National-level Implementation Support and Capacity Development
Draft Terms of Reference: Project Implementation Support on PA
Management Planning Guidelines and Training
Reports to:         Director, Project Tiger Office and PA Field Directors
Objectives          To prepare guidelines for PA management planning and facilitate the
implementation of the the PA management planning subcomponent
Responsibilities:   Review Annex 7 and develop workplan to develop guidelines that would address
issues raised regarding the strengthening of PA management plans.
Prepare guidelines and help PAs to identify stakeholders in the PA, assess current
level of participation of local people and other stakeholders in PA management
and planning process, and suggest mechanisms to improve it, if necessary
Prepare guidelines and help PAs to examine current boundaries of the PAs to
determine if any biologically significant ecosystems have been left under-
represented in the PA. Examine the current/proposed focus of ecodevelopment
around the PAs and suggest changes if necessary, to focus it on more demanding
(biologically more important) parts of the PA;
Prepare guidelines and help PAs to examine current or proposed
management/working plans dealing with the buffer zones (designated or not),
identify prescriptions/proposals conflicting with the objectives or methods of PA
management (if any), and suggest ameliorative and/or alternative approaches to
make management of PA and surrounding lands fully compatible with each other
Prepare recommendations for approaches, tools, and formats for addressing other
items in the project PA management planning subcomponent;
Visit PA sites, and hold discussions and collect field information. State/PA
authorities would make all necessary documentation available and facilitate field
work and interaction
Facilitate national level workshop to review recommendations for plan updates
Prepare and submit a consolidated report outlining strategies and approaches for
updating PA plans and submit site specific reports for each PA



175                                 Annex 11
Provide training to selected officers from each PA in PA management plan
preparation, and
Provide guidance to States during the updating of individual PA management
plans, if necessary.
Duration:          Two years
Qualifications:    Extensive experience in preparation and implementation of PA management
plans, training and/or research in PAs in the country. Knowledge of natural
resource management issues and environmental assessment site review.
Experience in facilitation of training, workshops, and meetings.
Draft Terms of Reference:
Regional Planning and Regulation: Capacity Development
Reports to:        Director, Project Tiger
Objectives         To facilitate the provision of basic information for managing land surrounding PA
in manner compatible with conservation and for integrating PA concerns into
large scale land-use planning initiatives and regulations at local and regional
levels. To facilitate the identification and assessment of activities outside the PA
that might potentially undermine conservation within the PA and to seek new
approaches to deal with these threats, using criteria and procedures outlined in
Annex 7.
Responsibilities:  Review Annex 7 and develop workplan to develop guidelines that would address
issues raised regarding the incorporation of PA concerns into regional planning
and regulation.
Help PAs to identify existing or proposed development plans of agencies
(irrigation, power, agriculture, tribal development, district development, five-year
plans, forestry, livestock development and others) in and around the PA.
Examine the current procedures and guidelines for the preparation of district
development plans (5-year or annual), discuss and propose ways for integrating
ecodevelopment concerns of PAs into the district development plans
With reference to the criteria and procedures outlined in Annex 7, help PAs to
determine if these plans contain investments that have the potential to directly or
indirectly impact the PA and its long-term viability, and to the extent to which
such plans include or require studies and assessments to address these impacts.
Focus on (a) potenital increase in the level of encroachment into the PA that is not
adequately mitigated, (b) potential disruption of migrations of ecologically
important species---for example, net loss of wildlife corridors, (c) potential
conversion of existing or proposed "core" areas of PAs as defined in PA
management plans, and (d) conversion, fragmentation, or change in legal status of
any part of the PA that would materially and adversely affect the viability of
ecologically important ecosystems and species.
With reference to the criteria and procedures outlined in Annex 7, help PAs to
determine if these plans contain investments that have the potential to materially
and adversely affect the ecodevelopment strategy of decreasing negative
interactions and increasing collaboration between local people and PA managers,
and the extent to which such plans include or require studies and assessments to
address these impacts. Focus on (a) potential conversion, fragmentation,, or



176                                 Annex 11
change in legal status of any part of the PA (especially that affecting customary
rights of indigenous people), and (b) on potential displacement of people and the
extent to which resettlement plans include (i) accurate baseline studies, (ii) careful
consultation, (iii) restoration of living standards, (iv) full compensation for land
and other assets including customary rights of indigenous people, and (v) a
strategy for sustainable encroachment control.
Analyze the extent of dialogue, communication and consultation between key
development agencies and PA authorities, and the extent of public consultation on
these issues and the channels available for this purpose. Suggest mechanisms to
improve these activities and the decision-making associated with MOEF and forest
department review processes.
Propose mechanisms for ensuring coordination of regional activities with PA
management programs.
Analyze MOEF procedures and practices and suggest improvements.
Monitor the incorporation into the updated PA management plans of improved
processes that address regional issues. Monitor compliance with the project
covenant on regional activities. Monitor performance of regional planning and
assessment activities for the project duration. Facilitate improvements.
Duration:          Project duration
Qualifications:    Over five years experience and expertise in regional planning and development.
Understanding of ecological processes and interactions. Experience in
participatory mechanisms and environmental analysis. Familiarity with
resettlement and indigenous people's development planning, including guidelines,
and access to additional expertise in these areas as necessary.
Draft Terms of Reference:
Environmental Review Guidelines and Initial Scoping
Reports to:        Director, Project Tiger
Responsibilities:  Review Annex 17 and develop workplan to develop guidelines that would address
issues raised regarding environmental review.
Further consider site-specific environmental impacts of activities proposed for PA
management improvements and in village ecodevelopment microplans,
complementing the preliminary environmental analysis carried out during project
preparation and summarized in Annex 17.
Recommend measures for strengthening environmental management and
monitoring procedures during implementation of the project, including
recommendations for the cost-effective conduct of site-specific assessments of
project investments prior to execution.
Recommend guidelines for environmental review work of PA ecologist and for
Intensive Project Performance Review Team.
Duration:          One year
Qualifications:    Professional competence and extensive experience in the conduct of environmental
assessments related to biological resources. Expertise in biological assessments
and surveys and PA management activities.



177                                 Annex 11
Draft Terms of Reference: Development of Participatory Microplanning and
Development of Training Programs
Reports to:        Director, Project Tiger
Responsibilities:  Review Annex 8 and to continue to develop and modify, as necessary for Indian
conditions, (a) guidelines for participatory microplanning, and (b) guidelines for
training programs to implement the above. The contractor would build upon the
guidelines outlined in the staff appraisal report.
Particular emphasis will need to be paid to:
*  Strategies for mitigating negative impacts on especially vulnerable
stakeholders of tribal groups, women, and the poor
*  Increasing effective participation by stakeholders in project activities, with
emphases on ecodevelopment activities and decision-making in project
management
*  Strengthening and developing mechanisms for conflict resolution between the
various stakeholders
*  Establishing a system for periodically reviewing the effectiveness of social
monitoring in improving ongoing planning and implementation,
incorporating the recommendations of the Social Assessment Review (see
below).
Specific areas to be covered will include:
*  Providing practical advice on how carry out participatory microplanning
D Developing guidelines for appropriate training programs.
To develop the training programs the specialist would:
*  Review currently available training programs in microplanning techniques
*  Identify training needs for local and national NGOs involved in participatory
village ecodevelopment microplanning
*  Propose training programs for NGOs and other groups appropriate to local
conditions - of various duration
*  Prepare handbooks in appropriate languages for those conducting
microplanning
*  Coordinate microplanning training programs across project areas
*  Conduct monitoring of training programs and prepare recommendations for
future training needs
Duration:          Project cycle including PPF
Qualifications:    Organization with professional experience in facilitating participatory
microplanning for indigenous people, women, and other marginalized groups,
social impact assessment, and training. Organization with long-term capability to
develop training programs; proven track-record in developing and implementing
training programs. Prior experience of protected area and natural resource
management desirable..



178                                  Annex 11
Draft Terms of Reference:
Social Assessment Review Guidelines and Initial Scoping
Qualifications:     Professional competence and extensive experience in the conduct of environmental
assessments related to social resources. Expertise in social assessments and
surveys and PA management activities.
Reports to:         Director, Project Tiger
Responsibilities:   Review Annex 18 and further consider site-specific social impacts of activities
proposed for PA management improvements and in village ecodevelopment
microplans, complementing the preliminary social assessment analysis carried out
during project preparation.
Continue to develop and modify, as necessary for Indian conditions the
participatory framework of social assessment analysis that was developed during
project preparation and appraisal and mechanisms to ensure that social monitoring
findings are used to mitigate negative impacts in ongoing implementation
Particular attention would be paid to:
*  Predicting the social consequences of project activities and alternative courses
of action on stakeholders, identifying unanticipated options, identifying
adverse impacts on ongoing projects. Areas of concern include social
organizational structures and decision-making processes, sociocultural issues,
distributional impacts, land tenure arrangements, access to and management
of natural resources
*  Identifying strategies to mitigate or minimize negative impacts prior to and
during implementation
*  Incorporating findings from impact monitoring and project performance
review of effects through the social assessment framework, providing
feedback to change project components, increase institutional learning and
build trust among project stakeholder
Recommend measures for strengthening management and monitoring procedures
during implementation of the project, including recommendations for the cost-
effective conduct of site-specific assessments of project investments prior to
execution.
Recommend guidelines for social assessment review work of PA sociologists and
for Intensive Project Performance Review Team.
Duration:           One year
Qualifications:     Professional competence and extensive experience in the conduct of social
assessments related to natural resource management. Expertise in social
assessments.
Draft Terms of Reference: Review and Revision of Feasibility and
Eligibility Guidelines for Village Ecodevelopment Activities
Reports to:         Director, Project Tiger
Objectives:         Strengthen existing guidelines and review selected site-specific issues to ensure
that microplans meet project objectives, fulfill eligibility criteria, and are feasible.
Responsibilities:   Review Annex 8 and other project documentation. Obtain a clear understanding of



179                                  Annex 11
the concepts, objectives, planning and implementation arrangements for the
village ecodevelopment activit;es and the potential range of possible investments
through review of project documents and discussion with national and state
government staff, NGOs and others.
Review the existing feasibility and eligibility guidelines developed for
ecodevelopment investments and identify gaps and areas that require
strengthening, with a specific focus on sector specific issues. Make field visits
where necessary.
Review technical, environmental, social, institutional, and financial guidelines for
comparable types of investments used by government agencies, commercial banks,
NGOs, and donors.
Recommend revisions and additions, building on experience of others, and
produce an expanded list of sector-specific feasibility considerations and a separate
list of annotated references.
Field test the revised and expanded list of feasibility considerations to ensure their
applicability.
Recommend measures, including arrangements of staffing, inter-agency
coordination and training needed to implement the guidelines.
Duration:           Five year retainer contract. Initial support included in PPF.
Qualifications:     Firm, institution, or NGO with extensive experience in the planning, research, and
implementation of community-based investments, especially those related to
natural resource management. Must have capacity and experience in inter-
disciplinary work, particularly in social, environmental, and institutional aspects,
and access to highly qualified technical experts.
Draft Terms of Reference: Environmental Education and Awareness:
Guidelines and Capacity Development
Reports to:         Director, Project Tiger
Objectives:         To develop a strategy for implementation of an enviromnental education and
awareness programs that would be directed at all audiences: policy makers,
politicians, visitors, local communities, school children, etc., that would provide
the basis and guidance for the later development of environmental education and
awareness program at each project PA.
Responsibilities:   Review Annex 9.
Review and assess the range of education and awareness programs being
implemented for PAs and biodiversity conservation in general and an
understanding of the effectiveness of these programs and the institutions carrying
out these programs.
Examine the range of education and awareness methods and tools being used in
the project PAs and assess the effectiveness of these methods on the target
audiences.
Assess the capacity and capability of the institutions carrying out these education
and awareness program and the effectiveness of programs being carried out by
forest departments in the respective project PAs.
Identify existing constraints to improving education and awareness programs in



180                                  Annex 11
PAs and define measures to address same.
Based on the above analysis, propose a strategy to improve education and
awareness programs in PAs and specifically to promote a better understanding and
acceptance of the concepts and objectives of the Ecodevelopment Project. The
strategy should provide guidance on the nature and scope of methods to be
employed to reach the different target groups, including outreach programs;
training, technical assistance, and institutional needs for implementation of the
strategy; and propose next steps or procedures for preparation and implementation
of education and awareness action plans in the individual PAs.
Conduct a series of workshops at the national level, with state-level participation,
to review the study's analysis and proposals, and to reach consensus on a final
strategy, and to review implementation experience.
Provide additional guidance to state forest department staff and NGO staff
contracted by the states who are implementing the environmental education and
awareness programs
Duration:           Project duration.
Qualifications:     Experience and prominence at the national level in environmental education and
awareness program formulation. Willingness and ability to work as a coordinator
and facilitator of local environmental education institutions.
Draft Terms of Reference: Impact Monitoring Guidelines
Reports to::        Director, Project Tiger
Objective           To provide guidelines to (a) identify project activities, institutions and processes
which are associated with biodiversity changes in the PAs, and socioeconomic
changes in and around the PAs; (b) measure the nature and extent of such
changes; (c) assess whether these are in compliance with those expected; and (d)
suggest guidelines for project adjustment if needed. This monitoring system should
be consistent across the project PAs, but can be adapted to meet ecological and
social conditions in each PA. The monitoring system would consist of a conceptual
framework that would then be elaborated into a monitoring system, through
consultation, field studies, and peer review. Once designed and field tested, the
monitoring system would be adapted to each PA and implemented.
Responsibilities:   Review Annex 10 and (a) further develop a conceptual framework for designing a
monitoring system for the project, and (b) based on consultations, test studies and
peer review elaborate the framework into a monitoring system.
The framework would include:
*  The biodiversity and other values for which the project PAs are being
managed, major threats, anticipated project impacts, and objectives of
monitoring
*  A tentative selection of indicators of PA values, threats, socioeconomic
conditions of relevance, and protect activities, institutions and processes
*  The logic and criteria behind the selection of indicators
*  Preliminary selection of sampling methods, intervals, and intensity.
*  Preliminary assessment of resource and logistic requirements for monitoring



181                                    Annex 11
*   A preliminary analytical framework, including possible summaries,
aggregations and indices, and reporting format and intervals
* Mechanisms for feedback and project adjustment
* Mechanisms to ensure flexibility in the design for adoption in other areas, and
for inclusion of other indicators
The above conceptual framework would be elaborated into a monitoring system on
the basis of consultations, test studies and peer review. Ensuring maximum
consistency across the PAs, the monitoring system would consist of:
* Clear statements on the biodiversity and other values (e.g. PA people
interactions) of the project PAs
* Clear statements on the major PA-people mutual impacts and threats to PA
values
* A selection of appropriate indicators which closely and clearly reflect the PA
values, PA-people interactions and threats to PA values, and the criteria for
their selection (including those field tested)
- A set of indicators that reflect important project activities (PA management
and village ecodevelopment), institutions and processes
* A conceptual model and statement of anticipated project impacts on PA values
and threats to them from associated project activities
e A sampling design for the measurement of indicators, covering sampling
methods, interval, intensity, and precision
*   Assessment of resource (expertise, personnel, funds, and time) and logistic
requirements
* Scope and mechanisms for participatory monitoring
* Analytical framework consisting of a statistical model for analysis of data to
detect changes and trends in order to meet monitoring objectives, including an
appropriate set of summaries and aggregations for easy perception of trends
and changes in PA values in relation to disturbance indicators, and project
activities, institutions and processes
* Clearly stated subjectivity in the selection, monitoring and interpretation of
indicators and derived indices
* Reporting format and intervals
* Mechanisms for public dissemination of findings from monitoring
* Guidelines on reporting intervals and formats
* Mechanisms for ongoing feedback from monitoring to PA management and
for project adjustment
* Mechanisms for quality control at all levels, including training needs, and
peer reviews
 An assessment of institutional capability to undertake monitoring.
Duration:            Eight Months.
Qualifications:      Extensive experience in the design and conduct of multi-disciplinary monitoring
programs, in particular, those that include biological and socioeconomic aspects.



182                                 Annex 11
Demonstrated capacity to work with other professional agencies and institutions.
Draft Terms of Reference: National Level Implementation Support on
Research/lmpact Monitoring Strategy and National-level Interchange
Reports to::        PA field directors
Responsibilities:  Review Annex 10.
During the initial phase the consultant would:
* Identify critical pressures for PA management and ecodevelopment at each of
the seven sites, and the ecological and socioeconomic constraints for their
understanding
*  Identify discrete multidisciplinary projects for generating the information
required involving ecological (e.g. livestock predation, crop damage, canopy
dynamics), biological (e.g. wildlife population and vegetation dynamics,
endemism), ethnobiological (e.g. indigenous resource management systems
for NTFP), sociocultural (e.g. group organization and participation in NRM),
economic, and policy (e.g. impact of agricultural policies on PAs) studies on
issues pertaining to human impacts, wildlife impacts, and the livelihood of
local people
* Identify of a network of research institutions and individual researchers for
participation in the research and impact monitoring programs and providing
information at the local level
* Identify approaches for conducting the studies at each site, including the
hiring of contract staff and the provision of research fellowships to graduate
students for 1-3 years
* Identify criteria for selecting research staff and fellows to conduct research
and contractual impact monitoring
* Identify training in research/impact monitoring methodology and
multidisciplinary teamwork
* Identify equipment and facilities required for undertaking the required studies
* Evaluate the merits of existing state-level research advisory committees for
project PAs, where relevant, and recommendations for the establishment of a
research advisory committee where none exists now (comprising
representatives from PA management, relevant specialized institutions,
relevant government agencies, and NGOs) to advise on research projects, and
research fellows
* Identify procedures and guidelines for inviting and evaluating research
proposals
* Formulate cost estimates for specific research and contractual impact
monitoring activities including overheads
* Conduct workshops and expert consultations for the above purposes
* Formulation of research strategies for each of the PAs.
In addition, the consultant would continue to provide oversight, guidance and
advice to the PAs on their research and impact monitoring activities throughout



183                                  Annex 11
the life of the project. Specifically, the consultant would:
*  Provide guidance to the PAs in the implementation of their respective research
programs, including assistance in setting priorities for research, identifying
research institutions, etc.
*  Conduct regular national-level seminars to discuss research and impact
monitoring results and disseminate information among the PAs staff and
others
*  Evaluate the research and impact monitoring programs on a regular basis to
ascertain its effectiveness and its impact on management, and recommend
changes to the programs, if necessary, to meet program goals.
Duration:           five years
Qualifications:     Experience in formulating research projects. Expertise in biological, social
science, policy research and multidisciplinary research. Experience in monitoring
and evaluation.
Draft Terms of Reference:
Project Performance Review: Guidelines and Format
Reports to:         Director, Project Tiger
Objectives:         To establish a progress reporting system that provides information needed for
project management decisions and that provides accountability to project
financiers.
Responsibilities:   Review Annex 16 and further refine benchmarks for project performance,
incorporating (a) measures of project impacts to the extent they are available from
the impact monitoring system, (b) measures of the extent to which the project
meets design specifications (e.g. participatory processes, etc.), (c) measures of
project outputs, (d) measures of project financial performance, and (e) measures of
project inputs.
Establish a standard format for semi-annual progress reports on project
performance that incorporates the benchmarks and other requirements (see Annex
16), keeping the system simple and cost-effective with an orientation on providing
useful information for project management decisions, and providing accountability
to project financiers (domestic and external).
Facilitate the installation and use of the project reporting system in each PA,
including hands-on training where needed.
Duration:           one year
Qualifications:     Experience in project reporting systems. Experience with World Bank financed
projects especially desirable. Conceptual ability to identify benchmarks that
measure extent to which project is meeting project objectives and fulfilling project
design specifications.
Draft Terms of Reference: Multi-state Learning and Communication on
Broad Project Management Issues
Reports to:         Director, Project Tiger



184                                 Annex 11
Objectives:        To provide a national forum for NGOs, indigenous peoples' organizations and
others to exchange experience and views on the project as a whole, building upon
the consultation and transparency established during project preparation...
Responsibilities:    Review current project documentation and conduct periodic workshops and
consultations to discuss project experiences, either in general or on specific topics
not otherwise handled in other national-level contracts.
Conduct or arrange for special studies on project issues not otherwise handled in
other national-level contracts.
Facilitate cross-sectoral communication linkages between interested NGOs,
indigenous people's organizations and other stakeholder institutions at both the
national and local levels.
Duration:          Project duration
Qualifications:    Experience in conducting workshops, consultations, and studies on natural
resource management projects. Ability to work with a wide range of NGOs,
indigenous people's organizations and other interested stakeholders. Strong
communication skills.
C. Publicity and Dissemination Contracts
The project would include contractual support at the national and local levels for:
(a)    Translation of the entire staff appraisal report into Hindi (with wording that
is readily understood)
(b)    Translating selected portions of the staff appraisal report into native
languages of local NGOs who would be working on the participatory
microplanning (with wording that is readily understood)
(c)    Publication of the staff appraisal report, the indicative plan, and other
relevant project documents for public dissemination
(d)    Publication of a semiannual newsletter for public dissemination reporting
on project developments, and
(e)    Production of a video on project activities.
D. Implementation Reviews
Draft Terms of Reference: Intensive Project Performance Review
Reports to:        Director, Project Tiger
Objectives:        To provide continuing implementation review to the Project Tiger Office
Responsibilities:  Undertake field visits to project sites and provide guidance and advice in matters
relating to environmental, socioeconomic, management, and technical issues.
Provide feedback to change project components, increase institutional learning and
build trust among project stakeholders. Provide advice and technical support for
planning, coordinating, and implementing project activities when required.



185                                 Annex 11
Provide advice and support in the preparation of project progress and completion
reports.
Provide guidance and advice in review of project documents and plans.
Recommend measures for strengthening environmental management and
monitoring procedures and programs during implementation of the project,
including recommendations for the cost-effective conduct of site-specific
assessments of project investments prior to execution. Provide oversight and
specialist series required to facilitate the implementation of these measures. Use
the environmental assessment framework to assess environmental impacts in
ongoing implementation.
Use the social assessment framework to (a) assess the social impacts of project
activities on stakeholders and (b) the effectiveness of responses to the impact
monitoring in mitigating negative impacts in ongoing implementation.
Use project design and preparation work to assess effectiveness of project
administration arrangements. Suggest improvements where needed.
Participate in project technical workshops, review meetings, and coordinating
committees, and provide resource personnel when required.
Participate in meetings, discussions, and supervision missions involving the Bank
as and when required.
Provide other relevant technical support and advice when required.
The Project Tiger Office would provide a minimum of six portable computers and
auxiliary equipment on a full-time basis to the review team.
Duration:          Five years.
Qualifications:    Three full time senior specialists and three full time junior specialists in ecology,
social science, and project administration/institutional development. Ecologists
would have professional competence and extensive experience in protected area
management, biological assessments and surveys, and the conduct of
environmental assessments related to biological resources. Social scientist would
have experiences in social impact assessment, monitoring and evaluation, and
facilitating planning for indigenous people, women, and other marginalized
groups. The administration/institutional development specialists should have
strong project management skills. Additional short-term technical experts would
also be provided on retainer. All individuals should have demonstrated ability to
work with national and state level governments, and national and local NGOs.
They should have strong analytical and writing skills, and ability to communicate
effectively with senior government officials. They should be willing to operate in
field in self-contained fashion without secretariat support. Assignment involves
extensive travel. Individuals would be contracted through an institution
experienced in recruiting qualified specialists for projects, and would operate as
"adjunct" staff to the Project Tiger Office.
Draft Terms of Reference: Project Expenditure and Procurement Review
Reports to:        Director, Project Tiger
Objectives:        To provide incentives, accountability, and transparency that ensure that project
expenditures conform with the project objectives and design, and that project
procurement meets requirements for economy, efficiency, fairness, and



186                                 Annex 11
transparency
Responsibilities:  To randomly check whether specific project expenditures on goods and works have
conformed with project objectives and design. This would include checking
whether the planning and implementation have met project guidelines. For
example the consultant would review whether village ecodevelopment investments
(a) were selected in accordance with participatory rnicroplanning process outlined
in staff appraisal report, (b) met eligibility criteria, (c) were designed to address
relevant feasibility considerations, (d) met beneficiary contribution requirements,
complied with budget constraint. The consultant would also review the
documentation of forest department travel expenditures used for participatory
microplanning. The consultant would review whether the ecosystem protection
and management investments have met eligibility criteria.
To review whether project procurement of goods and works have met requirements
of economy and efficiency, taking into consideration both the unit cost of items,
the full transaction costs of procurement process, and technical, quality, capacity,
and conununity participation considerations. For village ecodevelopment
investments, check compliance with requirement that costs fit within state norms
unless granted a waiver by the PA director.
To review whether (a) the procurement provided an opportunity for providers of
goods, and works to compete or (b) project officials provided strong justification
for direct contracting or sole sourcing.
To review whether the procurement process was transparent.
To write semi-annual reports that summarize findings, recommend corrective
actions, and suggest improvements in project procurement and expenditure
procedures.
The random check would cover about 10% of all project expenditures on goods
and works.
In order to limit the scope of work, to maximize the comparative advantage of a
national firm, and to not duplicate routine internal reviews and audits, the
consultant would not be responsible for reviewing compliance with specific state
government procurement and accounting procedures.
Duration:          Five years.
Qualifications:    A highly reputable, major accounting firm with experience in procurement post-
review.
Draft Terms of Reference: Independent Implementation Review
Reports to:        Chairperson, Project Steering Committee
Objectives:        To provide independent review of project performance to ensure accountability and
transparency.
Responsibilities:  To review project performance reports, make field visits, and report findings to
Project Steering Committee.
Duration:          Three weeks per year
Qualifications:    Highly qualified and respected specialists in ecology, social science, and project
administration, who are not otherwise contractually associated with the project.



187                                 Annex 11
E. Policy and Strategic Framework Studies and Workshops
Draft Terms of Reference: National-Level Financial Sustainability Study
Reports to:        Assistant IG, Wildlife and Ecodevelopment Project Steering Committee
Responsibilities:    Analyze a wide range of potential funding sources and financing mechanisms used
in a variety of overseas parks (except for endowments, which would be covered in
a separate study). This analysis would include consideration of entrance fees,
transport rental fees, camera/video rental fees, guide fees, guesthouse fees,
concession fees, royalties, donations from the public and from the private sector.
Programs analyzed should be from a wide range of countries. Provide this analysis
to the state-level study teams.
Make rough projections for the post-project budget required to maintain and
further restore biodiversity in the PAs throughout India.
Make rough projections for the post-project budget required to maintain and
further implement reciprocal commitments in PAs throughout India.
Analyze existing funding sources and financing mechanisms used for the PAs
throughout India, incorporating the analysis provided by the state study teams (see
Annex 7).
Incorporate analysis of financing mechanisms and sources from national-level
ecotourism strategy study.
Identify and analyze potential sources of national and international-level donor
support. Incorporate conclusions of national-level study of endowment feasibility.
Identify and analyze potential changes in national policies that could create and/or
facilitate improved funding sources and mechanisms. If appropriate, draft formal
proposals and/or government orders required for the recommended sources and
mechanisms.
Identify and meet with key national-level stakeholders who could proactively
promote the adoption of new fuinding sources and mechanisms.
Recommend strategy on how the PAs and the associated village ecodevelopment
program could achieve financial sustainability.
Present draft report (in English and in the official state language) covering the
above to a workshop of key decision makers, and produce a final report which
responds to comments made during the workshop
Duration:          Six months, spread over an 18 month period.
Qualifications:    Financial and Legal expertise. Would have qualifications and experience that
commands high degree of professional respect and prominence.
Draft Terms of Reference:
National-Level Ecotourism and Visitor Strategy
Reports to:        Assistant IG, Wildlife and Ecodevelopment Project Steering Committee
Responsibilities:  Overall, to articulate a national-level Participatory Ecotourism Strategy which
would include necessary elements of local participation, sound enviromnental



188                                      Annex 11
design, visitor management, marketing, conservation education, training, financial
sustainability and monitoring and evaluation.
More specifically, for PAs throughout India, to assess current:
- Tourism situation and potential; to determine a desirable tourism situation and
identify steps to reach this situation; to a generic participatory ecotourism strategy
for PAs that incorporates the best practice of the PA-Level strategies (see Annex
9). The strategy should also address the following necessary elements
- Generally assess current and potential PA attributes relevant for ecotourism,
identify site selection criteria and processes for ecotourism activities, develop
mechanisms to monitor ecological impact of tourism
- Recommend procedures to calculate visitation information and levels, to identify
marketing opportunities for ecotourism; to develop guidelines for visitor and staff
behavior in PAs, to identify educational requirements for visitors and staff e.g.
visitor center, brochures, to develop mechanisms to collect and monitor visitation
data for marketing and management purposes
- Develop generic guidelines for environmentally sound and culturally appropriate
designs
- Establish guidelines on PA staffing levels for tourism, identify training needs and
sources for PA and other stakeholders
- Identify appropriate organizational structures for participatory management of
ecotourism; identify mechanisms to increase long-term local participation in both
benefit-sharing and decision-making, develop monitoring and evaluation plans to
assess local participation and benefit-sharing
- Identify relevant government and private sector stakeholders
- Develop national-level legal framework for tourism activities, identify national-
level policy considerations for ecotourism strategies, assess current national-level
financial provisions for tourism management, identify activities for modification
or introduction of practices to improve financial sustainability
- Identify potential private-public sector linkages related to tourism, identify
opportunities for future collaboration, develop guidelines for collaborations
- Recommend an action program for follow-up, discuss at national-level workshop,
and revise final report in response to comments.
Duration:             Six to nine months.
Qualifications:       Experience in ecotourism management and participatory planning. Strong writing
skills, oral communication skills, and training skills.



189                                 Annex 11
Economic Analysis of Reciprocal Commitments and Associated Investments. The
project design set the budget constraint for village ecodevelopment investments at Rs
10,000 per family. This was based on two things. First on implicit contingent valuation
derived from the participatory rural appraisal exercises undertaken during project
preparation; second on budgets used to pay for protection by local people under
comparable joint forest management programs. During the project, and prior to
implementation of a follow-on project, a study would further analyze the impacts of the
village ecodevelopment commitments and investments on family incomes and the
adequacy of the village ecodevelopment investments as incentives to permanently curtail
unsustainable use of PA resources. The budget for transitional support for voluntary
relocation is based on Bank experience with involuntary resettlement in India. The study
would also review the extent to which the regular village ecodevelopment investment both
by itself and in combination with transitional support for voluntary relocation compensate
for losses due to the original establishment of the PAs.
Draft Terms of Reference:
Ecodevelopment Incentives and Income Impacts Study
Reports to:         Assistant IG, Wildlife, and Ecodevelopment Project Steering Committee
Objectives          Evaluate the impacts of the village ecodevelopment commitments and investments
on family incomes and the adequacy of the village ecodevelopment investments as
incentives to permanently curtail unsustainable use of PA resources.
Responsibilities:   Part I. On the basis of a desk study, develop conceptual framework, quantify
assumptions
Analyze with and without PA situations (i.e., PA impact)
*  Estimate the cash and subsistence income foregone per family due to the
creation of a PA. Use data from the Joint Forest Management Incentives Study
and other readily available and relevant sources to estimate the value of
fuelwood foregone, grazing foregone, non-timber forest products foregone,
and daily wvage labor from logging foregone. Indicate both the medium per
family and medium and range among groups that win or lose (e.g., specialized
resource using groups such as headloaders and graziers; people living inside
the PA, on the PA periphery, and in communities affecting the PA that do not
participate in the project; and within group gender and tribal differences).
Note seasonal dimmensions of income, patterns of time allocation, and
occupational structure.
*  Analyze the extent to which the village ecodevelopment investments
compensate for incomes that are foregone due to the creation of the PAs.
Using the assumption that the village ecodevelopment investments would
yield an income (cash and subsistence) stream that would yield at least a 10
% internal rate of return (IRR), compare the net present value (NPV) of the
stream of income with estimated NPV of income foregone due to the creation
of the PA. For groups living within the PA, also compare the combined total
of income from the combination of regular village ecodevelopment
investments and the transitional support associated with voluntary relocation,
using the same 100 IRR assumption. Note seasonal dimmensions of income,
patterns of time allocation, and occupational structure.
Analyze with and without reciprocal commitments and village investments



190                                 Annex 11
situations (i.e., Project Impact)
*  Estimate the cash and subsistence income per family that comes from PAs in
spite of current enforcement efforts. Analyze the potential impact of village
commitments to curtail future unsustainable use of PA resources on family
incomes. Indicate both the medium per family and medium and range among
key groups (e.g., specialized resource using groups such as headloaders and
graziers; people living inside the PA, on the PA periphery, and in
communities that do not participate in the project; and within group gender
and tribal differences) of the potential income foregone. Note seasonal
dimmensions of income, patterns of time allocation, and occupational
structure.
*  Analyze the adequacy of the village ecodevelopment investments as incentives
for village commitments to curtail unsustainable use of PA resources. Using
the assumption that the village ecodevelopment investments would yield at
least a 10 % IRR, compare the NPV of the stream of income with the
estimated NPV of income potentially foregone due to commitments.
  Analyze the impact of village ecodevelopment investments on overall family
incomes, using the 10% IRR assumption. Indicate both the medium per family
and medium and range among key groups (e.g., specialized resource using
groups such as headloaders and graziers; people living inside the PA, on the
PA periphery, and in communities that do not participate in the project; and
within group gender and tribal differences) of the potential net income due to
investments.
*  Analyze incremental impact of the combination of per family of potential
income foregone due to the commitments and the potential income due to the
investments.
*  Analyze structural impacts such as changes in patterns of time allocation or
occupational structure.
Identify completed and ongoing studies that potentially might provide detailed
field data on resource use in PAs (e.g., studies on NTFP use funded by Ford
Foundation).
Design a study using field data to test the assumptions on project impact on all
local people in three villages in the light of project experience. In one village, also
analyze the extent of compensatory support for participants in voluntary
relocation.
Present draft report (in English) covering the conceptual framework, methodology,
quantified assumptions, and field study design to a workshop that includes MOEF
staff, PA staff, NGOs, and consultants working on monitoring, feasibility
analysis, social assessment, and preparation of the Second Ecodevelopment
Project, and revise the report in response to comments. Report must be written in
language that is easily understood by non-economist decision-makers.
Part II. Field Study and Program Design Recommendations
Implement the field study that tests assumptions in three villages
Apply the results of the field study, develop recommendations for future
ecodevelopment programs, (e.g., size of village ecodevelopment investment budget
per family).



191                                 Annex 11
Present draft report (in English) on the field study results and ecodevelopment
program design recommendations to a workshop that includes MOEF staff, PA
staff, NGOs, and consultants working on monitoring, feasibility analysis, social
assessment, and preparation of the Second Ecodevelopment Project, and revise the
report in response to comments made during the workshop. Report must be written
in language that is easily understood by non-economist decision-makers.
Duration:          Three months initial desk study and workshop, followed by field study of 6 months
spaced over 15 months in years two and three of the project, and 2 months for
policy report and. workshop in year three.
Qualifications:    Economist experienced in project analysis and field studies. Strong writing skills
and demonstrated experience in drafting reports that are easily understood by non-
economist decision makers.
F. PA and National-level Administration
Draft Terms of Reference:
Project Administration Support and Contract Management Overhead
Reports to:        Director, Project Tiger
Objectives:        To provide ongoing implementation review to the Project Tiger Office
Responsibilities:  Provide advice and technical support in procurement and contract management,
financial administration, information technology, and coordination.
In close consultation with Director, Project Tiger, arrange recruitment of the
individuals who would work on the intensive project performance review contract.
Provide other relevant administrative support and advice when required.
Duration:          Five years on retainer basis.
Qualifications:    Institution that has experience and capacity in project administration and contract
management.



Indicative PA-Level Training Plan: Project Management
Course         I ~~~Methodology   Participants   ~No!        Objectivs                             Rsuc   gnsDrto                          rqec
per  co urse     course : : ___________i __________: ________   _____________i _______    __________
Project Management   short course       Sr. Executive    2         Impart skills in management           Management Training    2 weeks         1997 and
Field Staff                techniques                            Institution                           1999
(ACF - CCF)
Financial              short course     Sr. Executive    2         Impart skills in financial            Management Training    1 week          1996 and
Management                              Field Staff                management                            Institute                              1998
Monitoring and         short course     ACF, DCF         2         Impart skills in project performance    Management Training    2 weeks       1996
evaluation                                                         monitoring and evaluation             Institute
Computer               short course     Office staff     3         hands on training in applications     Computer training        2 weeks       1996,
applications                                                       software                              institute                              1997,
_____1998



193                             Annex 12
Annex 12: Preparation of Future Biodiversity Projects
Overview
1.    The Ecodevelopment Project would provide a framework and financing to prepare
large future projects listed as priorities in India's Environmental Action Program.
Experience shows that larger biodiversity projects usually take three to five years to
prepare and appraise; if the government uses the period of the Ecodevelopment Project to
initiate future projects they could be implemented four to ten years from the time
preparation begins. The concepts behind the proposed projects would reflect lessons
learned during the implementation of relevant smaller scale, more immediate projects
currently being financed by the UNDP, other international agencies, bilateral agencies, or
NGOs, (including any projects receiving GEF support channeled through UNDP). The
Ecodevelopment Project support for preparing later proposals would help develop a
pipeline of large-scale biodiversity projects potentially eligible for future consideration by
larger financiers such as IDA or by combinations of cofinanciers (including GEF).
2.    The project concepts outlined below were developed largely through consultations
with a wide variety of interested stakeholder institutions and individuals. The project files
include more extensive descriptions and include lists of those consulted.
Ecodevelopment Project 11
3.    Background. MOEF's original proposal for India's first biodiversity project with
GEF was for a more extensive undertaking, and MOEF has repeatedly expressed interest
in such a project for the future. Potential sites include additional biosphere reserves, virgin
forest areas, a wide range of areas currently protected under Project Elephant and Project
Tiger and other protected areas with special botanical significance. Possible sites might
also include those nine currently receiving technical assistance and training support under
a UNDP/FAO financed project being implemented by the Wildlife Institute of India (WII).
Preparation would develop indicative plans and preliminary social assessments for specific
proposed project areas. It would explore the use of an endowment or trust mechanism,
using experienced financial, legal, and institutional experts. It would also reflect lessons
learned from the first ecodevelopment project.
4.    Objectives. The second ecodevelopment project---Ecodevelopment Project II---
would extend the ecodevelopment strategy to additional PAs, establish a national
ecodevelopment program and test the ecodevelopment strategy on a pilot basis in selected
multiple use areas (MUAS). As in the first ecodevelopment project, the main objectives
would be to:
(a)   Improve the capacity of PA management to protect and conserve
biodiversity; increase opportunities for local participation in PA
management activities, decisions
(b)   Reduce negative impacts of local people on biodiversity and vice versa;
increase collaboration of local people in conservation efforts



194                            Annex 12
(c)   Establish a national capacity to prepare, appraise, fund, and supervise a
centrally sponsored program of state-level ecodevelopment projects;
provide environmental education, impact monitoring, and research support
(d)   Test the ecodevelopment strategy on multiple use areas
(e)   Ensure effective management.
5.    Summary of Project Content. The components that correspond to the objectives
listed above comprise:
(a)   Extend Ecodevelopment Strategy to Selected PAs, i.e., to continue the
program begun under Ecodevelopment Project I (current proposal) to PAs
identified during the preparation of Ecodevelopment Project II through:
(i)   Improved PA management by:
*     improving PA planning processes
*     protecting and managing ecosystems within the PA
*     upgrading PA amenities for field staff
(ii)   Village ecodevelopment that reduces negative interactions of local
people on biodiversity and increases support of local people for
conservation by:
conducting participatory micro-planning and providing
implementation support
*     implementing reciprocal commitments that foster alternative
livelihoods and resource uses to be financed by a village
ecodevelopment program
special programs in joint forest management, participatory
voluntary relocation, and discretionary reserves for
supplemental investments
(b)   Develop a national ecodevelopment program that would promote and fund
state-level ecodevelopment activities throughout India through:
(i)    a project formulation and supervision cell that would work with
GOSs to identify, prepare, appraise, fund, and supervise state
ecodevelopment projects;
(ii)   a national ecodevelopment trust, the annual income from which
would fund ecodevelopment reciprocal investments in state
ecodevelopment projects;
(iii)  national funding for state programs that develop more effective and
extensive biodiversity conservation by:
*     promoting public support for conservation through state
environmental education and awareness campaigns;



195                              Annex 12
*     monitoring and research to improve understanding of issues
and solutions relevant to PA management and interactions
between PAs and people
*     integration of experience and strengthening the framework
for future ecodevelopment activities.
(c)    Test ecodevelopment strategy in multiple use areas to bring the benefits of
ecodevelopment to areas that are outside the PA system
(d)    Overall project management.
Biodiversity Information Project
6.    Project Objectives. The Biodiversity Information Project would organize a demand-
driven system for biodiversity information that would:
(a)    Strengthen systems for gathering, organizing, and storing useful infonmation
(b)    Strengthen distributed system for providing access to information
(c)    Enhance analysis and application of information for decision-making
(d)    Enhance effective project preparation and management
7.    Project Content. More specifically, the Biodiversity Information Project would:
(a)    Strengthen systems for gathering, organizing, and storing useful information
by:
(i)    establishing a demand-driven ranking of needed information
(ii)   strengthening surveys for collecting specimen-based information in
priority areas
(iii)   stimulating collection of new data on Indian biodiversity
(iv)   designing structures for information fields as follows:
*     organize local fields for source institutions
*     organize shared fields for all users
(v)    establishing protocols for quality control of information collected
(vi)   establishing computerized systems for the capture and management of
specimen-based data
(vii)  enhancing taxonomic, ecological, ethnobiological, and specimen
curation capacity to international standards
(viii)  expanding existing databases to:
*     record disappearing informnation
*     link with old and established information repositories
*     strengthen systems for identifying and monitoring threatened
species and ecosystems



196                              Annex 12
authenticate species of significant economic or medical
importance
*     prospect for species or taxa of commercial value.
(b)    Strengthen the distributed system for providing access to information by:
(i)    expanding and modernizing the electronic network to link information
centers, information users, and conservation decision makers
(ii)   establishing a mapping system on information available and lacking
(iii)   establishing a management system for responding to clients and users
(iv)   enhancing the technical capacity for maintaining an up-to-date and
functioning system.
(c)    Enhance analysis and application of information for decision making by:
(i)    promoting better utilization of information available by users for their
needs
(ii)   strengthening the development of information applications by users for
decisionmaking
(iii)   promoting the generation of new information from available data for
decisionmaking
(iv)   enhancing the capacity for information analysis and application for
decisionmaking.
(d)    Enhance effective project management by:
(i)    coordinating work plans, budgets, flow of funds, withdrawal
applications, accounting, audits, and related financial administration for
project activities
(ii)   facilitating contracting of goods and services
(iii)   coordinating progress review and reporting and other project related
communication.
8.    Suppliers. A wide range of institutions of different shapes and sizes supply and use
biodiversity information at different points in the research and development (R&D) or
knowledge spectrum, ranging from the generation of basic scientific information to the
application of information for commercial and management purposes. At the upstream end of
the spectrum, institutions such as the following collect and supply biodiversity information
mostly for their own use: the Botanical Survey of India (BSI), the Zoological Survey of India
(ZSI), the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), the Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and
Natural History (SACON), Indian Council for Forestry Research and Education (ICFRE), the
National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources (NBPGR), the National Bureau of Animal
Genetic Resources (NBAGR) and the National Bureau of Fish Genetics (NBFG) of the Indian
Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), the National Botanical Research Institute (NBRI)
and the Central Drug Research Institute (CDRI) of the Council of Scientific and Industrial
Research (CSIR), and other academic and basic research institutions.



197                             Annex 12
9.    Users. The Central Institute for Medicinal and Aromatic Plants (CIMAP) and the
Central Drug Research Institute (CDRI) of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research
(CSIR), the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and the Ministiy of Agriculture,
the Foundation for Revitalization of Local Health Traditions (FRLHT), the All India Medical
Research Council (AIMRC), the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MOEF), and agro-
based and pharmaceutical industries use biodiversity information for commercial or
management purposes. Most of these institutions lie at the downstream end of the R&D or
knowledge spectrum.
10.   Existing Networks and Information Systems. An Environmental Information
System (ENVIS) has been established, and is operational under the Ministry of Enrvironment
and Forests (MOEF) with 20 centers that are potential sources and users of environmental
information. Two of these centers, the Botanical Survey of India (BSI) and the Zoological
Survey of India (ZSI) are dedicated nodes for the supply of biodiversity information. India has
other information systems in place such as district level information nodes through the National
Informatics Centre (NIC). The Foundation for Revitalization of Local Health Traditions
(FRLHT) in Bangalore is a non-governmental organization that has established a network of
distributed databases called INMEDPLAN, The Indian Medicinal Plants Distributed Databases
Network; this links 10 nodal agencies concerned with the collection, preservation, propagation,
and uses of medicinal plants in India, which cover more than 8,000 plant specimens and a chain
of 48 in situ and ex situ conservation parks. The Indira Gandhi Conservation Monitoring
Centre (IGCMC) of the World Wide Fund for Nature (India) (WWF-I) is a non-governmental
institution dedicated to organizing, maintaining and disseminating biodiversity conservation
information, especially in relation to the management of land, water, forests, and protected
areas (PAs).
Ex-Situ Genetic Resources Conservation
11.   Long-term Goals. The ex situ Genetic Resources Conservation Project would over
the long-term undertake to:
(a)   salvage selected species and genetic variability that would otherwise be lost if
left in situ within protected or multiple use areas
(b)   Increase access to these genetic materials through their replication,
manipulation and exchange for priority uses
(c)    Manage these genetic materials safely, reliably, and efficiently
(d)   Promote public awareness and education of ex situ genetic resources
conservation.
12.   Project Objectives. The ex situ Genetic Resources Conservation Project would
undertake a nationally-coordinated and user-oriented effort to:
(a)   Expand the stock of ex situ generic resources
(b)    Strengthen the capacity to replicate, manipulate, and exchange genetic
resources
(c)   Improve safety, reliability, and efficiency of genetic resources management
(d)   Develop and establish a legal framework for ex situ conservation



198                              Annex 12
(e)    Promote public awareness and education of ex situ genetic resources
conservation
13.   Project Content. Specifically, the ex situ Genetic Resources Conservation Project
would undertake to:
(a)    expand the stock of ex situ genetic resources:
(i)    collect and document germplasm
*     from priority biogeographic zones where habitats outside the in
situ protected areas system are threatened by agricultural or
urban-industrial transformations
*     of important species and genetic resources especially
threatened by extinction
*     of poorly covered taxa including oceanic, invertebrate, and
microbial species and varieties
*     from cultivated or husbanded areas
*     from captive or experimental breeding programs.
(ii)   use standardized protocols for systematic exploration, collection, and
documentation of germplasm collected
(iii)   strengthen management-oriented research to provide sound technical
services for germplasm exploration and collection
(iv)   provide technical field training for effective field exploration, collection,
and documentation
(b)    strengthen the capacity to replicate, manipulate, and exchange ex situ
germplasm collections:
(i)   in terms of their:
*     characterization and evaluation
*     linkage to in situ conservation areas;
*     storage especially over the long term under normal, reduced,
and suspended growing conditions
*     storage in established gene banks with operating standards and
with a range of facilities
*     propagation and quality assurance or genetic integrity after
storage
(ii)   enable participating institutions to acquire as necessary the
technological sophistication for genetic characterization, evaluation,
and enhancement such as for DNA fingerprinting and in recombinant
DNA technology



199                              Annex 12
(iii)   develop analytical and management methodologies for genetic
characterization and evaluation, storage, propagation, and quality
assurance or genetic integrity
(iv)   strengthen management-oriented R&D to provide sound scientific and
technical services
(v)    provide technical training in all aspects of ex situ germplasm
replication, manipulation and exchange, and research and management
methodology for effective conservation
(vi)   strengthen the information collection, storage, and retrieval system
using a national database, and information analysis and use by
researchers, entrepreneurs, and policy-makers.
(c)   Improve safety, reliability, and efficiency of genetic resources management by:
(i)   introducing and exchanging germplasm for research purposes
(ii)   examining and quarantining germplasm exchanged for the inadvertent
transmission of pests and pathogens
(iii)   strengthening management-oriented R&D to provide a technically
sound quarantine services
(iv)   providing technical training in quarantine methods
(d)    Develop and establish a legal framework by:
(i)   including:
*     all critical aspects of ex situ conservation, both in vivo and in
vitro
--    domesticated as well as wild species and varieties
*     patents and all forms of intellectual property rights (IPR)
(ii)   strengthening management-oriented research to provide technically
sound legal services
(iii)   providing technical training in legal aspects of ex situ conservation;
(e)    Promote public awareness and education on ex situ genetic resources
conservation
(f)    Ensure effective management of the project by:
(i)    coordinating work plans, budgets, flow of finds, withdrawal
applications, accounting, audits, and related financial administration for
project activities
(ii)   facilitating contracting of goods and services
(iii)   coordinating progress review and reporting, and other project related
communication.



200                             Annex 12
14.   Suppliers and Users. A wide range of institutions with different objectives supply
and/or use genetic resources conserved ex situ at different points in the R&D or knowledge
spectrum. On the one hand, academic and basic research institutions supply genetic information
to, on the other, agriculture-based and pharmaceutical and health-based industries applying
genetic technologies for commercial and industrial purposes. Major institutions supplying and
using genetic materials from ex situ conservation include the National Bureau of Plant Genetic
Resources (NBPGR), the National Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources (NBAGR) and the
National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources (NBFGR) of the Indian Council of Agricultural
Research (ICAR), Ministry of Agriculture; the Central Institute for Medicinal and Aromatic
Plants (CIMAP), the National Botanical Research Institute (NBRI) and the Central Drug
Research Institute (CDRI) of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), and the
Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Ministry of Science and Technology; and the All-India
Council of Medical Sciences (AICMS), Ministry of Health. Genetic prospecting and
commercial gene trading by private entrepreneurs would need to be developed for India, and
could be promoted by hybrid public-private sector institutions like the Biotech Consortium of
India Limited (BCIL).
15.   Existing Arrangements. A number of different networks exist for ex situ genetic
conservation in India. For example, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR)
coordinates in vivo and in vitro conservation of primarily domesticated species of agricultural
importance. The Central Zoo Authority of India (CZAI), Ministry of Environment and Forests
(MOEF) coordinates in vivo conservation of wild fauna, mainly endangered species. The
Conservation Division of the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MOEF) coordinates in vivo
conservation of wild flora in botanic gardens and arboreta. The Department of Biotechnology
(DBT), Ministry of Science and Technology coordinates in vitro conservation of microbial
organisms. In spite of these arrangements for the ex situ conservation, there is a need for a
user-oriented coordination of in vivo and in vitro genetic resources conservation at the national
and state levels.
Preparation Activities for All Projects
16.   The preparation activities for the above are still being identified but would involve
the following:
(a)    Consensus building
(b)   Expert advice on applying state-of-the-art experience from other countries to
the Indian situation; on-the-job training
(c)    Training needed during the preparation phase, prior to project implementation
(d)   Estimating project costs in accordance with the project objectives
(e)    Arranging project financing
(f)    Compilation of background information including:
(i)    government policies on biodiversity and project focus (e.g., biodiversity
information
(ii)   existing institutional responsibilities, capacity, and coordination
(iii)  lessons from other projects



201                                 Annex 12
(iv)    strategy for project focus (e.g., biodiversity information)
(v)    Rationale for donor financing.
(g)    Addressing Project Management Considerations including
(i)    allocation of implementation responsibilities, staff plans, plans for
contractual support, and coordination mechanisms for specific project
activities;
(ii)    development of the implementation schedule,
(iii)   arrangements to ensure the flow of funds;
(iv)   arrangements to
*      meet other financial administration requirements;
*      facilitate procurement and contracts for goods and services;
*      coordinate progress reviews and reports;
*      promote communication on project status and impacts
*      evaluate and audit the project.
(h)    Justification and analysis of project impacts including descriptions of the
project benefits, environmental and social impacts, sustainability, and risks.
Initial Documentation
17.   Initial documentation describing the project preparation activities of the Second
Ecodevelopment Project, the Biodiversity Information Project, and the Ex-Situ Genetic
Resources Conservation Project would include the
(a)    Initial project concept paper covering the title, justification, objectives, and
estimated scope of the proposed project
(b)    List of stakeholders who will be involved in project preparation consultations;
(c)    Schedule of preparation tasks currently anticipated
(d)    Draft terms of reference for consultants (including NGOs and autonomous
agencies) and government agencies to undertake specific preparation tasks
during the next 18 months
(e)    Description of how project preparation activities relate to ongoing work in
programs supported by other donors (such as the Sustainable Development
Network of UNDP and the ODA support to IGCMC; in the case of the
Biodiversity Information Project)
To the extent that the GEF is being considered as a possible source of financing, it would be
important to include as part of the preparation an explanation of the project's global significance, its
role in addressing priority GEF concerns, and its compliance with the incremental financing
requirement (which is likely to involve the analysis of costs of a hypothetical project that would
exclude globally significant activities financed by GEF).



202                                  Annex 12
(f)    Processes of planning, administering, and monitoring the preparation work, and
communicating/consulting with project stakeholders who are not directly
responsible for carrying out project preparation tasks
(g)    Estimated costs of project preparation work.
The above documentation would reflect the consensus developed during the initial
consultations on project design.
Second Ecodevelopment Project Preparation
Draft Terms of Reference for National-Level Trust Feasibility Study
Reports to:         Assistant IG, Wildlife and Ecodevelopment Project Steering Committee
Responsibilities:   Review findings of financial sustainability study (see Annex 11). Review other
options besides endowments that could be legally constructed as a trust and may
not already have been used in parks. Assess relative advantages of using an
endowment rather than, say, a sinking fund, a revolving fund, a social fund, or a
venture capital fund. Consider what justifies the use of a trust versus classic
investment assistance.
Determine the most appropriate mecanism in terms of (a) conservation issues to be
addressed, (b) mecanisims to address these issues that are most appropriate for
India, (c) justification for locking up capital and incurring transaction costs of
designing and operating such a mecanism.
Review available information on overseas endowments and study programs for
management of trusts in India. Give special consideration to nature and
composition of government boards, professional staff, financial management
arrangements, funding criteria, decisionmaking processes, disclosure and
dissemination policies, involvement of stakeholders (including NGOs), fund-
raising processes, and funding sources
Identify stakeholders including NGOs and any others who should be involved in
designing, creating, and managing a trust
Identify funds and potential sources of funds; identify and analyze scope within
national policy or potential changes in national policies that would allow the
creation of a trust for ecodevelopment; identify and meet with key national-level
stakeholders interested in an endowment for ecodevelopment.
Recommend strategy on the creation of a trust, including a process that would
promote broad consensus-building. If appropriate, draft formal proposals and/or
government orders.
Present draft report (in English) covering the above to a workshop of key
stakeholders and decision makers, and produce a final report that responds to
comments made during the workshop.
Duration:           Six months, spread over an 18 month period.
Qualifications:     Financial, Legal, and Institutional Development expertise. Would have
qualifications and experience that will facilitate broad consensus-building.
International experience helpful. .



Annex 13: Summary Project Cost Tables
India
Eco-Development ProJect
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ '000)
Develop Effective and
Extensive SupporiVor
Ecodevelopment
Village Ecodevelopment                   Improve
Improved PA Management      Participatory  Investments             Conduct      Impact
Ecosystem            Micro-Planning     to               Environmental Monitoring              Prepare
Protection  Amenities    and        Implement            Education and    and                   Future
Planning     and     for Field  Implementation  Reciprocal   Special   Awareness   Research    Project   Blodiversity
Processes Management   Staff       Support   Commitments Programs  Campaigns   Systems Management  Projects    PPF    Total
L Investment Costs
A. Civil works                                     -      5,786.8   1,229.5            -                      -         157.4     257.8                              -  7,431.5
S. Vehicles                                                359.5                    118.6           -         -         135.2     105.3       31.9                        750.6
C. Furniture and Equdpment
Field                                            -       497.9         -             -            -         -            -       10.7          -           -       -   508.7                            O
Office                                                    96.7                      -            -           -                   18.4                -         -        115.1
Laborabiry                                                                                 -                                     41.7          -                         41.7
IfromnationTechnology                            -       114.9         -             -            -         -         68.4       82.1      180.4           -       -   445.9
Materials                                     23.5           -         -          351.7           -         -        428.7          -          -            -      -   803.8
Subtotal                                        23.5       709.6         -          351.7           -         -        497.1      153.0      150.4            -      -  1,915.2
D. VIllage ecodevelopmeent program                 -           -         -          263.2    24,459.8   5,748.4            -          -          -           -       - 30,471.4
E. Consultant, training and contractual services
1. Training
Govemment elicials                         379.1        35.5         -          142.2           -         -            -       20.5       84.7            -      -   662.0
Fellowships                                101.6           -         -              -           -         -            -       76.8          -            -      -   178.5
Tours                                       31.0           -         -          105.6           -         -            -          -       133.2           -      -   269.8
Subtotal                                     511.7        35.5                    247.8           -         -            -       97.3      217.9            -      -  1110.2
2. Specialist services
NGOservices                                    -           -         -        1,271.2           -     179.4        187.1          -          -            -      -  1,637.8
National experta                           489.6       116.9         -          556.7           -      63.8         162.0     58.6    2,879.8             -      -  4,817.3
Subtotal                                     489.6       116.9                  1,827.9           -     243.2        349.1      548.6    2,879.8                   -  6,455.0
3. Planning workshops                        104.1           -         -          333.1           -         -         21.3      149.1                       -      -   607.6
4. Special studies                               -        31.0         -              -           -         -            -    1,457.6       164.9           -      -  1,653.5
5. Monitoring expertise                          -           -         -             -            -         -            -      962.4    1,333.5            -      -  2,295.9
Subtotal                                      1,105.4      183.3                  2,408.9           -     243.2        370.4    3,215.0    4,596.1                   - 12,122.3
F. Travel for project supervision                  -       190.3         -          441.5                     -            -          -       38.1           -       -   669.9
G. Funds for new projects                          -           -         -              -           -         -            -          -          -      2,581.4      -  2,581.4
H. Reimbursement of PPF                            -           -         --                   -               -            -          -          -            - 2,000.0  2,000.0
Total invement Costs                            1,128.8     7,229.6   1,229.5       3,583.9    24,459.8   5,991.6       1,160.1    3,731.0    4,846.4     2,581.4 2,000.0 57,942.1
IL Recurrent Costs
A. Salarie                                       9.0      2,619.6        -        1,888.6           -         -          2.5       29.5      728.0            -      -  5,277.2
B. Operation and maintenance
Buildinrgs and laboratcries                      -      2,657.3                       - -                   -            -          -          -            -      -  2,657.3
Vehicles                                         -        41.0                    161.9           -         -          96.0      809         229            -      -   402.6                            M
Equipment                                        -       388.2         -              -           -         -            -       59.5       86.7            -      -   534.3
Subtotal                                           -      3,086.5                   161.9                               96.0      140.4      109.5            -          3,594.2
C. Periodicals                                               3.0                -                                          -       34.6       148.8           -      -   186.4
Total Recurrent Cost                               9.0      5,709.1        -        2,050.4           -         -         98.5      204.5       986.4           -      -  9,057.9
Toal PROJECTCOSTS                               1,137.8    12,938.7   1,229.5        5,634.3    24,459.8   5,991.6       1,258.7    3,935.5    5,832.8     2,581.4 2,000.0 67,000.0
Taxes                                            2.3       712.3      61.5          101.5           -         -         77.5       57.2       58.4            -      -  1,070.7
Forelgn Exchange                                 3.6      1,579.3    126.0          382.2      1,272.1    298.9        248.7      227.7      208.0        796.4  120.0  5,262.9



India
Eco-Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
Bihar (USS '000)
Develop Effective and
Extensive Support\for
Ecodevelopment
Village Ecodevelopment                    Improve
Improved PAManagement        Participatory  Investments             Conduct      Impact
Ecosystem            Micro-Planning      to                Environmental Monitoring
Protection  Amenities     and        Implement            Education and     and
Planning     and     for Field  Implenentation  Reciprocal  Special   Awareness    Research    Project
Processes Management  Staff        Support   Commnihents Programs  Campaigns    Systems  Management  Total
I. biveatment Costs
A. Clvil works                                            1,1284      1452               -            -        -           260        193           -    1,318.8
. Vehicles                                          -        561          -            11.2           -        -           193        112           -       97.8
C. Furniture and Equipment
FIeld                                                      76.1         -              -            -        -              -        1.8          -       78.0                           0
Office                                            -        12.3         -              -            -        -              -        31           -       15.3
Labortory                                         -           -         -              -                                    -        3.1                   3.1
Informabon Techncdogy                             -        16.2                  -                  -        -           12.4       12.2          -       40.8
Materals                                        3.1           -                     30.2            -        -           66.0          -          -       99.4
Subtotal                                          3.1       104.6         -            30.2           -        -           78.5       20.2          -      236.5
D. Vilage eccdevelopment program                    -           -                        -      3,852.7    693.5              -                     -    4,546.2
E. Consultad, traidng and contractual services
1. Training
Goemrnment officiabs                         43.7        29.5         -             6.2           -        -              -        2.9        11.8      94.2
Tours                                                                             22.4            -        -              -          -          -       22.4
Subtotal                                       43.7        29.5         -            28.6           -        -              -        2.9        11.8     116.6
2. Specilkt servkes
NGO serices                                     -                     -           187.5           -        -           32.8          -          -      220.3
Natbnal experts                              107.1      116.9         -           60.7                     -           25.9       52.9        18.7     382.2
Subtotal                                       107.1      116.9         -           248.2           -        -           58.7       52.9        18.7     602.5
3. Planning workshops                           15.3          -         -            48.4           -        -            3.0       20.2          -       87.0
4. Speclalstudhes                                 -           -         -              -            -        -              -      172.3        15.6     187.8
5. Monltorlngexpertise                                        -                                                             -      141.1         9.4     150.5
Subtotal                                         166.1      146.4                     325.2                                61.8      389.4        55.5    1,144.4
F. Travel for project supervision                   -        38.1         -            40.6           -        -              -          -          -       78.6
Total Investment Costs                             169.2     1,473.5    145.2           407.3      3,852.7    693.5         185.5      440.1        55.5    7,422.4
B. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                                                 347.4         -           254.4           -        -              -          -       182.0     783.8
. Operation and maintenance
Buildinges-                                               466           -            2.             -        -           1             -           -     4669.
Vehicles                                          -           -         -            27.9           -        -           139         80            -      49.8 9
Equipment                                         -        57.4         -              -            -        -                       7.6          -       65.0                           X
Subtotal                                            -       524.3         -            27.9           -        -           13.9       15.6           -     581.7
C. Perlodicals                                                  -         -                                                            4.5                   4.5
Total Recumrnt Costs                                  -       871.7         -           282.3           -        -           13.9       20.1       1820    13700
Total PROJECT COSTS                                169.2    2,345.2      145.2          689.6      3,852.7    693.5         199.3       460.2      237.5    8,792.4



India
Eco-Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
Gujarat (USS '000)
Develop Effecdive and
Extensive Supportffor
Ecodevelopment
Village Ecodevelopmeuit                  improve
Improved PA Management       Partidpatory  Investments             Conduct       Impact
Ecosystem            Micro-Planning      to               Environmental Monitoring
Protection  Amenfites     and        Implement            Education and    and
Planning     and     for Field  Implementation  Reciprocal  Spedal   Awareness    Research    Project
Processes Management   Sta         Support   Commitnnts Programs  Campaigns    Systems  Management  Total
L Investment Costs
A. CivA vworks                                             5638       1922               -           -                               615                  817.5
B. Vehicles                                                 303                       28.9                               193         112                  89.7
C. Fumiture td Equipment
Field                                                     501                                    -                        -           -                 50.1
Office                                                    123                                                                       61                   18.4
Labortory                                                                           -                                     -        21.4                 21.4
IrfornationTechnology                             -       162                                                           93         10.4                 35.8
Mateils                                         3.1          -                     59.8                                59.2                            122.1
Subtotal                                          3.1       78.5                     59.8            -                   68.5        37.9                247.9
D. VNag. ecodvebopent prorarn                                                            -     3 407.0    6145                          -               4,021.5
E. Consuhntw tralning and conractual services                                                                                                                                          C
1. Tralinhg
Gaoerrt odricials                            653           -         -            14.1           -        -             -         2.9       21.8      104.1
Toaurs                                                                            10.4                                              -          -      10.4
Subtotal                                       65.3                                 24.6           -        -             -         2.9       21.8      1146
2. Specalist servis
NGO serivces                                    -          -         -           170.9           -        -          32.8           -          -     203.7
National aq)ret                              52.7          -         -           1041            -     16.0           14.4       80.7      356.8     6246
Subtotal                                       52.7          -                     275.0           -     16.0          47.2        80.7      3568      828.4
3 Piannhngworkshops                             6.1          -         -            60.2           -        -           3.0        37.3          -     106.7
4. Spedal studies                                 -          -         --                                                         188.1       31.0     219.1
6 Monitoringexpetse                               -                      -                       -                                141.1                141.1
Subtotal                                        124.1          -         -          359.8                  16.0          50.3       450.2      409.5    1,409.8
F. Traveltorprojectsupervision                     -        38.1         -           62.7           -         -             -          -           -     100.7
Total Investment Costs                            127.2      710.7     192.2           511.2     3,407.0    630.4          138.0      560.7      409.5    6,687.1
II Recurrnt Costs
A. fSins                                            -      2545          -           400.2           -        -           25         29.5       69.2      7559
B. Opeation and nulitenanca
Bildinss and labataries                           -      285.0                                   -                        -           -          -     285.0
VeNcies                                           -          -         -            27.9           -        -           13.9        8.0          -       49.8
Equixment                                         -       50.4         -              -           -         -             -         7.6          -      58.0
Subtotal                                                   335.3                     27.9            -        -          13.9        15.6                392.7
C. Perodcals                                                   -                        -                                            15.0                 15.0
Total RecurrentCosts                                         589.8         -           428.1           -        -          16.4        60.2       69.2   1,163.7
Tota PROJECT COSTS                                127.2    1,300.6      192.2          939.3      3,407.0    630.4         154.5      620.9       478.7    7,850.7                       D



India
Eco-Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
Karnataka (USS '000)
Develop Effective and
Extensive Support\for
Ecodevelopment
Village Ecodevelopment                     Improve
Improved PA Management        Participatory  Investments             Conduct       Impact
Ecosystem             Micro-Planning      to                Environmental Monitoring
Protection  Amenities      and       Implement             Education and     and
Planning     and      for Field  Implementation   Reciprocal  Special   Awareness    Research    Project
Processes Management   Staff        Support    Commitments Programs  Campaigns    Systems  Management   Total
I. investment Costs
A. Civil works                                       -       641.7     167.6               -            -        -           25.8        41.9          -      877.0
B. Vehicles                                          -        51.0         -            22.5            -        -           193         11.2          -      104.0
C. Fumiture and Equipment
Field                                                       71.1                                           -                            1.8          -       73.0
Office                                             -        12.3         -               -            -        -              -          -           -       12.3
Labarabry                                                -          -            -                   -         -              -         3.1          -        3.1
Informalon Technology                              -        16.2         -               -            -                     9.4       15.0           -       40.5
Materials                                        3.1          -                       64.5           -         -           78.4          -                  146.0
Subtotal                                           3.1        99.6                      64.5            -        -           87.8        19.9                 274.8
0. Vilage ecodevelopment program                     -           -         -               -      4274.3    899.5               -                -          5,173.8                           C
E. Consultant trainhig and contractual services
1. TraIning
Gemrnment officials                           83.9           -         -            16.9            -        -              -        2.9         2.3      106.1
Tours                                            -           -         -            14.9            -        -                          -          -       14.9
Subtotal                                        83.9           -         -            31.8            -        -              -         2.9        2.3      121.0
2. Specialist servIces
NGO services                                     -           -         -           265.2            -     82.1           24 6          -           -      371.9
National experts                              67.1                     -            48.2            -     16.0           161         69.5      298.3      515.1
Subtotal                                        67.1           -         -           313.4            -     980            407         695       298.3      886.9
3. Plandlngworkshops                            18.6           -         -            59.2            -        -            30         12.4          -       933
4. Special studies                                 -           -         -               -            -        -              -       200.4       31.0      231.4
5. Monitoring expertise                            -           -         -               -                     -              -       128.4       39.0      167.4
Subtotal                                         169.6           -         -           404.4            -     98.0           43.7       413.6      370.6    1,500.0
F. Travel for project supervision                    -        38.1         -            96.6            -        -              -           -          -      134.7
Total lmvestm nt Costs                              172.7      830.4      167.6          5880       4,274.3    997.5          176.6       486.5       370.6    8,064.3
I1 Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                                          -       341.8          -          1543             -                -                  -        6.2      502.2
B. Operation and maintenance
Buildings and laboratbries                         -       3434                  -                         -            -4                           -      343.4
Vehicles                                                                              35.2                                 13.9        16.7          -       65.8
Equipment                                                   57.                                                               -         7.6                  65.0
Subtotal                                             -       400.7         -            35.2            -        -           13.9        24.4                 474.1
C. Periodicals                                                        -                    -                                    -         3.0          -        3.0
Total Recurrent Costs                                  -       742.5          -          189.4            -         -          13.9        27.4        6.2      979.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                 172.7     1,572.9     167.6           777.5      4,274.3    997.5          190A4      513.9       376.8    9,043.6



India
Eco-Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
Kerala (US$ '000)
Develop Effective and
Extensive SupportWor
Ecodevelopment
Village Ecodevelopment                   Improve
Improved PA Mhnagement       Partidpatory  Investments             Conduct       Impact
Ecosystem            Micro-Planning      to               Environmental Monitoring
Protection  Amenities     and        Implement            Education and    and
Planning    and      for Field  Implementation  Reciprocal  Special   Awareness    Research    Project
Processes Management   Staff       Support    Commitments Programs  Campaigns    Systerm   Management  Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Clvil vorks                                     -       604.2     210.7              -           -         -          26.1       64.4           -     905.4
B. Vehicles                                        -        86 4         -           11.2                     -          19.3       19.1           -     135.9
C. Furniture and Equipment
Field                                            -        84.5                                    -                       -        1.5           -      86.0
Office                                           -        21.5         -              -           -         -             -        3.1           -      24.5
Laboratory                                       -           -         -                                                           31                    3.1
InformationTechrtology                           -        16.2         -              -           -         -           9 5       10.4           -      36.0
Materials                                      6.3           -         -           75.5           -         -          47 2          -           -     128.9
Subtotal                                         6.3       122.1         -           75.5           -         -          56 6       18.0          -      278 5
D. Village ecodevelopment program                  -           -         -              -      3,556.4    640 2             -          -           -    4196.6
E. Consultant, training and contractual services                                                                                                                                       0
1. Training
Goverrmentdficials                           792           -         -           291             -        -             -         29        119      1232
Tours                                        13 3                    -           20.7           -         -             -          -           -      34 0
Subtotal                                      92.5           -         -           49.8           -         -             -        2.9        119      157 1
Z Specialist services
NGO seMces                                     -           -         -          228 0           -         -          16.4          -           -     244.4
National experts                            73.5           -         -          101 1           -         -          55 5       82.7       497.5     810.2
Subtotal                                      73.5           -         -          329.1           -         -          71.9       82.7       497.5   1,054.6
3. Planning workshops                          16.8          -         -           57.8           -         -           3 0       20.2           -      97.8
4. Special studies                               -        31 0         -              -           -                       -      299.2           -     330.2
5.Monitoringexpertise                            -           -         -              -           -         -             -       141.1       37.1     1783
Subtotal                                        182.8       31.0         -          4367            -         -          749       546.2       546.5    1,8181
F. Travel for prqect supervision                   -           -         -           82.6           -         -             -          -           -      82.6
Total nvestment Costs                            189.0       843.7     210 7          606 0      3,556.4    640 2         176.9      647.8       546.5    7,417.1
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                                      9.0       630.5         -          541.5           -         -             -          -       202.3   1,383.3
B. Operion and maintenance
Buildngs and laboratories                        -       312.8         --                                                 -          -           -     312.8
Vehicles                                         -        41.0         -            1.0           -         -          13.9       13.7           -      69.6
Equipernt                                        -        69.2         -              -           -         -             -       15.2           -      84.5
Subtotal                                           -       423.0         -            1.0           -         -          13.9       28.9           -     466.9
C. Periodkials                                     -                     --                                                 -          5                   4.5
TotalRecurrentCosts                                90      1,053.5         -          542.6           -         -          13.9       33.5       202.3    1,854.7                        a
Total PROJECTCOSTS                                1980      1,897.2     210.7        1,148.5      3,556.4    640.2         190.8      681.2      748.8   9,271.8                         X
I-.



India
Eco-Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
Madya Pradesh (USS '000)
Develop Effective and
Extensive Supporttfor
Ecodevelopment
Village Ecodevelopment                     Improve
Improved PA Management        Participatory  Investments             Conduct      Impact
Ecosystem             Micro-Manning       to               Environmental Monitoring
Protection  Amenities      and       Implernent            Education and     and
Planning     and      for Field  Implementation  Reciprocal  Special   Awareness    Research    Project
Processes Management   Staff        Support    Commitments Programs  Campaigns    Systems  Management   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil works                                       -       929.4                         -            -        -           26.1        161           -      971.5
B. Vehicles                                          -        48.7         -            11.2           -         -           19.3       11.2           -      90.4
C. Furniture and Equipment
Field                                              -        53.1         -               -           -         -              -        1.8           -      54.9
Office                                             -        15.3         -               -           -         -                       3.1           -       18.4
Labcratory                                                                             -                                      -        4.9                   4.9
Information Technology                             -        16.2         -               -           -         -            7.8       10.4           -      34.3
Materials                                        3.2           -         -            46.7           - _                   55.1          -           -      105.0
Subtotal                                           3.2        84.6         -            46.7            -        -           62.8       20.2           -      217.5
D. Village ecodevelopment program                                -         -               -      2,224.3    940.8              -          -           -    3,1651
E. Consultant, training and contractual services
1. Training
Governmentoffaials                            362                                   26.3            -        - --                               119        74.5
Felloaships                                   31.6           -         -               -            -        -              -       76.8           -      108.4
Totirs                                           -           --10.4                                -         -                                     -       10.4
Subtotal                                        67.9                                  36.8 8768                                                   119       1934
2. Specialist services
NGO semces                                       -           -         -           133.6           -         -           24.6          -           -      158.2
National experts                              56.2           -         -            86.2           -         -           259        651        142.6      376.0
Subtotal                                        56.2           -         -           219.8            -        -           505        651        142.6      534.2
3. Planning workshops                           19.1           -         -            44.0            -        -            30        218            -       879
4. Specialstudies                                  -           -         -               -            -        -                      1106        31.0      141.6
5. Monitoringexpertise                             -                                                 -                        -       1284        14.8      143.2
Subtotal                                         1432            -         -           300.6            -                    536        4027       200.3    1,100.2
F. Travel for project supervision                    -        381          -            23.3            -        -              -          -           -       61.4
Total lnvestment Costs                             146 3      1,100.7        -           381.8      2,224.3    940.8          161.7       4501       200.3    5,606.1
D. Recurr nt Costs
A. Salaries                                          -       110.1                     202.0            -        -              -          -        37.6      349.7
B. Operaton and maintenance
Buildings and labcratoies                                  344.0                                                 -                                   -      344.0
Vehicles                                                       -                      21.8                     -           13.9         8.0          -       43.6
Equipmert                                          -        50.5         -               -            -        -              -        6.2           -       56.7
Subtotal                                             -       394.5         -            21.8            -        -           13.9        14.1          -      444.3
C. Periodicals                                       -         3.0         -               -            -                       -         3.0                   6.0
TotalRecwrentCosts                                     -       507.6         -           2238             -        -           13.9        17.2       37.6      80.0                              x
Total PROJECT COSTS                                 146.3     1,608.3         -           605.6      2,224.3    940.8          175.6      467.3       237.9    6,406.1



India
Eco-Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
Rajasthan (USS '000)
Develop Effective and
Extensive Support\for
Ecodevelopnent
Village Ecodevelopmernt                    Improve
Improved PA Management        Participatory  Investnents             Conduct      Impact
Ecosystem             Micro-Planning      to                Environmental Monitoring
Protection  Amenities      and       Implement             Education and     and
Planning     and      for Field  Implementation  Reciprocal   Special   Awareness    Research    Project
Processes Management   Staff        Support    Commitments Programs  Campaigns    Systems  Management   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civilworks                                        -      4191       2772                -           -         -           25.8       321            -      7543
B. Vehicles                                          -       30 4          -            22 3           -         -           19 3       112            -      83 2
C. Furniture and Equipment
Field                                              -       71.4          -               -           -         -             -         1.8           -      732
Office                                             -        108                  -             -          -           -                  -           -       108
Laboratory                                                                             -                                     -         3.1                   31
Information Techndogy                              -       16 2          -              -            -         -           12 4       13.4           -      42 0
Materials                                        31           -          -            51.4           -         -          69 2           -           -     123 7
Subtotal                                           3.1       98 3          -            514            -         -           81 6       18 3           -     252.8
D. Village ecodevelopment program                    -          -                          -      4,345.2    849 9             -           -           -    5,195 0                             O
E. Consultant, training and contractual services
1. Training
Government officals                           40.7        60           -            24 9           -         -             -         2 9           -      74 5
Fellowships                                   39 3          -          --                                                              -           -      39 3
Tours                                            -          -          -             89                 -                  -           -           -       8.9
Subtotal                                        79.9        6.0          -            33 8           -         -             -         2 9           -     122.6
2. Specialist services
NGO services                                     -          -          -           219 0           -      65 0          32 8           -           -     316 8
National experts                              73 7          -          -           106 5           -      159            9.6        63.9       270 8     540 4
Subtotal                                        737           -          -           325.5           -      809           42 4        639        270 8     857 2
3. Planning workshops                            91           -          -            42.9           -         -           3.0        18 6           -      737
4. Special studies                                 -          -          -               -           -         -             -       244 0        15.6     259 6
5. Monitoring expertise                            -          -          -              -            -         -             -       141 1         94      1505
Subtotal                                         162.8        6.0          -           402.2           -      80 9           45 5      470 6       295.8    1,463.6
F. Travel for project supervision                    -          -          -            88.3           -         -             -           -        38.1     126.4
Total InvestrnentCosts                             165.9      553 8      277.2           564.3      4,345.2    930.7          172.1      532.3       333.8    7,875 3
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                                          -      289.8          -           225.1           -         -             -           -           -     514,9
B. Operation and rmintenance
Buildings and laboratories                         -      262.8          -               -           -         -             -           -           -     262.8
Vehicles                                           -          -          -            16.6           -         -           13.9        8.0           -      38.5
Equipment                                          -       56.7                   -                  -         -             -         7.6           -      64.3
Subtotal                                             -      319.5          -            16.6           -         -           13.9       15.6           -     365.5
C. PerIodicals                                       --                                   -            -         -             -         3.0                   3.0
TotalRecurrentCosts                                    -      609.3          -           241.7           -         -           13.9       18.6           -     883.4
TotalPPROJECTCOSTS                                 165.9      1,163.1     277.2          806.0      4,345.2    930.7          186.0       550.9      333.8    8,758.7                             X



India
Eco-Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
West Bengal (US$ '000)
Develop Effective and
Extensive Supportffor
Ecodevelopment
Village Ecodevelopment                        Improve
Improved PA Management         Participatory   Investments              Conduct        Impact
Ecosystem              Micro-Planning      to                  Environmental Monitoring
Protection  Amenities       and        Implement               Education and     and
Planning     and       for Field  Implementation   Reciprocal   Special    Awareness    Research    Project
Processes Management   Staff         Support    Commitments Programs   Campaigns    Systems  Management   Total
1 Investment Costs
A. Civil works                                         -     1,500.2      2367                -            -          -           27.7        22.5           -    1,787.1
S. Vehicles                                            -        56.6          -            112             -          -           196         303            -      1177
C. Furniture and Equipment
Field                                                -        91.6          -               -            -          -              -         1.8           -       93.5
OfFce                                                -        12.3          -               -            -          -              -         31            -       15.4
Laboratory                                                 -          -                     -            -          -              -         3.1           -        3.1
Informaton Technology                                -        180           -               -            -          -            7.7        10.4           -       36.1 
Materials                                          1.6           -         -             23.5            -          -           53.7           -           -       78.8
Subtotal                                             1.6       1219           -            23.5            -          -           61.4        16 4           -      226.8
D. Village ecodevelopment program                      -           -          -               -       2,299.8    1,110.1             -           -           -    3,409.9
E. Consultant, training and contractual services
1. Training
Governmentofficials                             30.0           -          -            24.6            -          -              -         5.8        10.1       70.6
Fellowships                                     30.7                                                          -                              -           -       30.7
Tours                                           17.7           -          -            17.9            -          -              -           -           -       35.6
Subtotal                                          78.5           -          -            42.5            -          -              -         5.8        10.1      137.0
2. Specialist services
NGO services                                       -           -          -            67.0            -       324            23.0           -           -      122.4
National experts                                59.4          -          -             50.0            -       16.0           14.6       133.7       143.3      417.0
Subtotal                                          59.4           -          -           116.9            -       48.4           37.6       133.7       143.3      539.4
3. Planning workshops                             19.0           -          -            20.5            -          -            3.0        18.6           -       61.2
4. Special studies                                   -           -          -               -            -          -              -       243.0        40.8      283.9
5. Monitoring expertise                              -                                                                                     141.1        14.7      155.9
Subtotal                                           156.9           -          -           179.9            -       484            407        542.3       209.0    1,177.2
F. Travel for project supervision                      -        38.1          -            47.3            -          -                          -           -       85.4
TotalinvestmentCosts                                 158.4      1,716.7     236.7           262.1       2,299.8    1,158.5          149.4      613.6       209.0    6,804.2
II. Recurmnt Costs
A. Salaries                                            -       645.5          -           111.1                         -           -                       2.9      759.6
S. Operation and maintenance
Buildings and laboratories                           -       642.5          -               -            -          -              -                       -      642.5
Vehicles                                             -           -          -            31.5            -          -           12.7         18.5          -       62.7
Equipment                                            -        46.6          -               -            -          -              -         7.6           -       54.2
Subtotal                                               -       689.1          -            31.5            -          -           12.7        26.1           -      7594                       X
C. Periocals                                                                           -                  -                          -         1.5                     1.5
Total Recurrent Costs                                    -      1,334.7         -           142.6            -          -            127         27.6         2.9    1,5205
Total PROJECTCOSTS                                    158.4     3,051.4     236.7            404.7      2,299.8    1,158.5          162.1       641.2       211.9    8,324.6



211                             Annex 14
Annex 14: Procurement and Disbursement
National shopping
1.    National shopping procedures would be used to procure vehicles, infonnation
technology, field, office and laboratory equipment, construction materials in individual
contracts not to exceed US $20,000. Rate contracts of the Directorate General of Supplies and
Disposal (DGS&D), New Delhi, would only be acceptable as a substitute for procurement
under national shopping. State rate contracts would not be acceptable.
2.    The essential elements of national shopping are (i) clear description and quantity of the
item(s) as well as a specified date of delivery; (ii) price quotations obtained from several
suppliers, usually at least three to assure competitive prices; (iii) evaluation of quotations to
fotlow sound public/private sector practices of the purchaser; and (iv) the purchase order
placed with the lowest evaluated supplier by suitably incorporating the terms of the accepted
offer. Further negotiations are not permitted after the lowest qualifying quotation has been
evaluated.
3.    All documents associated with the purchase of goods under national shopping
procedures would be subject to selective post-review by visiting missions. Such reviews would
concentrate on the competitiveness of prices paid and physical inspections of the relevant items.
4.    The schedule of critical steps for national shopping suggests that about 10 weeks
would normally be required from the preparation of the initial specifications to the delivery
date. Accordingly, to ensure that required equipment and goods are on hand to start the work
program for a fiscal year that begins on April 1, procurement activities should normally begin
by the preceding January 15.
Categorization of Consultants, Training, and Contractual Services
5.    The consultants, training, and contractual services would be used for the following
purposes:
(a)   Policy and project preparation: US$2.7 million
(b)   Capacity building: US$3.9 million, and
(c)   Implementation support: US$8.1 million.
Criteria for the Selection of Non-Government Organizations (NGOs)
6.    The project would seek NGO participation in village ecodevelopment support teams,
research activities (especially of social science aspects and project monitoring), environmental
education, project preparation, and training for the full range of project components. The state
project entities responsible for implementation and MOEF would invite from interested NGOs
detailed proposals for collaboration for work in and around the PAs and at the national level
respectively. The state entities and MOEF would be responsible for reviewing the proposals
and agreeing on appropriate mechanisms to involve NGOs in the project.



212                             Annex 14
7.    The selection of NGOs would be guided by the following criteria:
(a)    As part of the legal requirements, the NGO should be a registered body under
the relevant State Law. It should regularly maintain its accounting records and
have properly audited annual statements of income and expenditure.
(b)   It is essential that the NGO have a proven track record in the proposed activity.
To avoid creating any biases and misconceptions in the minds of the people, the
NGO should have secular operations (i.e. development activities of religious
NGOs would not be associated with proselytizing) and should not be affiliated
with any political organization.
(c)    For project activities requiring field activities over many sites (e.g., village
ecodevelopment support, socioeconornic research, project monitoring,
environmental education), NGOs should have adequate numbers of field level
staff conversant with the local dialect and customs, and have a clear
understanding of the socioeconomic and political situation of the area or areas
in which they would operate. They should also possess excellent
communication skills and good rapport with the community so as to involve
them in the project activities.
(d)   A prior understanding of the concept of ecodevelopment would be desirable.
Owing to the nature and extent of the physical coverage of the program, NGOs
participating in the project would be part of a larger effort involving other
NGOs, government officials, professional and academic institutions, and
others. Hence, the NGO should be able to interact smoothly with, and be part
of, a tearn.
(e)   Finally, the NGO should have internal stability so as to assure long-term
support to the project.
Contractual Arrangements for Consulting Services (large NGOs,
autonomous government agencies, and private firms)
8.    Consultancy services estimated at US$6.0 million with consulting firms-mainly large
NGOs-for management support, implementation assistance, and special studies would be
contracted on terms and condition in accordance with IDA guidelines for the use of
consultants, which are set forth in Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981). Consultancy contracts could
include up 100% for overhead charges including computing equipment hardware and software.
9.    Abbreviations used in the description of the steps include:
(a)    TOR - terms of reference;
(b)   LOI - letter of invitation;
(c)   NOL - IDA's no objection letter after required prior reviews of
documentation throughout the procurement process.
10.   Prior review by IDA is required for:



213                             Annex 14
(a)    Draft LOI package including the draft letter of invitation, terms of reference,
formats for submission of technical and financial proposals, draft contract
under which services will be performed before it is issued to the selected
consultants
(b)   Evaluation of technical proposals before opening the financial proposals
(c)   Draft negotiated contract with agreed description of services before signing of
the contract and
(d)   Conformed signed copy of the contract before authorizing disbursement
against the contract.
11.   Using the average amounts of time taken for each step in most projects, the schedule of
critical steps suggests that about 44 weeks would normally be required between the
preparation of the draft LOI package and the team leader being in post. Accordingly,
procurement activities should usually begin in early July to ensure that the team leader is in post
by the following 1 April. However, the actual number of weeks required can be shortened
significantly if project authorities quickly prepare draft documents and review proposals
promptly.
Contractual Arrangements for Consulting Services (small NGOs)
12.   Consultancy services with small NGOs in contracts less than US$20,000 up to an
aggregate of US$1.6 million for participatory planning and implementation assistance with the
Village Ecodevelopment component, and design of monitoring and evaluation procedures
would be contracted in accordance with IDA guidelines for the use of consultants. With
respect to review, (i) the model documents for inviting proposals, (ii) terms of reference,
(iii) all single source contracts (not applicable to contracts for individuals), (iv) all
contracts for assignments of a critical nature (regardless of value), and (v) all contracts
(original or amendments) valued at more than US $20,000 would be subject to prior
review by IDA.
13.   The schedule of critical steps for employment of small NGOs suggest that about 14
weeks would be required from the preparation of the initial terms of reference (TORs) until the
team leader is in post. Accordingly, in order to ensure that required services are on hand to
start the work program for a fiscal year that begins on April 1, procurement activities should
begin by the preceding December 15.
Contractual Arrangements for Consulting Services (Individuals)
14.   Procedures for employment of individuals-estimated at US$4.2 million-are usually
less formal. IDA only requires prior approval of terms of reference and the qualifications and
conditions of employment before an agreement (or contract) is negotiated and signed. In such
cases, the major concern will be that the individual is suitably experienced and capable.
However, where three or more individuals are to be employed and coordination,
Guidelines: Use of consultant by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency. August 1981.



214                            Annex 14
administration, and collective responsibility can become difficult, IDA would normally advise
that a consulting firm be employed.
Ecodevelopment Reciprocal Investments
15.   Investments expenditures associated with reciprocal commitments would not to
exceed Rs. 10,000 (US $285) per family including local contributions over a three-year
period, and would finance small works and village development activities over 2,000
widely scattered EDC locations over the five-year project period. Civil works required for
these investments would be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA:
(i) under community participation by direct contracting with non-governmental
organizations or village communities; or (ii) by soliciting quotations from at least three
qualified contractors; or (iii) through force account. Annex 8 contains a full description of
how community participation would function. Construction materials for these works,
aggregating to about US $13.0 million, would be procured following national shopping
procedures acceptable to IDA. Small equipment and goods required for these investments
would be procured through national shopping procedures acceptable to IDA. Livestock,
including breeding stock, young animals, fertile eggs for hatching, bees and silk worms,
estimated to cost about US $800,000 would be obtained under direct contracting
procedures acceptable to IDA. For each investment a list would be kept showing the
purpose, location, total cost, and breakdown of costs into the various forms of procurement,
which would be the basis of SOEs submitted with withdrawal requests. Documentation
describing each investment and the associated purchases would be available for selective post-
review by visiting missions. The focus of such reviews would be on the competitiveness of
prices received and the quality of work completed.



215                                         Annex 14
ID  Task Name                              Duration         Qtr 3               Qtr 4               Qtr 1
I  Standard Equipt NCB                       33.7w
2      Preparation of Specification & Bidding   4w      819         916
3      IDA's NOL                                4w                        1014
4      Place invitation to bid in newpapers      Od                          10113
5      Submission of Bids                       4w                                11110
6      Bid Opening                               ld                                11113
7      Evaluation of Bids                       6w                                           2125
8      IDA's NOL                                3w                                               1115
9      Award & Sign Contracts                   4w                                                     2112
10     IDA's NOL                                 1w                                                      2119
11      Shipment & deliver                       6w
12      Equipment available                      Ow



216                                       Annex 14
ID Task Name                             Duration  1st Quarter   2nd Quarter   3rd Quarter    4th Quarter
1  Procure by National Shopping            10.2w                p 4/1
2      Prepare specifications                 4w 22    2116
3      Invite Quotations                       Od          2119
4      Submission of Quotations               2w            311
5      Evaluation of Quotations               2w              3115
6      Shipment & delivery                    2w                 3129
7      Delivery                                1d                 411



217                                       Annex 14
ID Task Name                              Duration        Qtr 2               Qtr 3               Qtr 4
1  Consulting services                      43.7w
2      Prepare TOR, Shortlist & LOI            4w
3      IDA's NOL of TOR, Shortlist & LOI       3w                          19
4      Issue LOI                               Od                             7131
5      Receive proposals                      45d                                          9129
6      Open technical proposals                Ow                                           012
7      Evaluate technical proposals            6w                                                   11/10
8      IDA's NOL of evaluation                 2w                                                    11124
9      Open financial proposal                    d                                                    11127
10      Negotiate contract                     6w
11     IDA's NOL of draft contract             3w
12      Sign Contract                          2w
13     IDA's NOL of final contract             3w
14      Mobilization                           4w
15     Team Leader in Post                      Od



218                                       Annex 14
ID Task Name                              Duration        Qtr 4               Qtr 1              Qtr 2
1  Proposed procedure for small NGOs        14.2w                                           411
2      Prepar TOR, justification SS and LOI    2w
3      IDA's NOL of TOR, SS and LOI            1w                         1112
4      Issue LOI                                ld                        1115
5      Receive proposals                       3w                             215
6      Open technical proposals                Ow                             ,215
7      Evaluate technical proposals            1w                            j2112
8      Open financial proposal                 ow                                2112
9      Negotiate contract                      1w                                2119
10      Sign Contract                          1w                                   2126
11     IDA's NOL of final contract             1w                                    314
12      Mobilization                           4w                                          4/1
13     Team Leader in Post                      Od                                          411



219                                       Annex 14
Project Disbursement
(US$ '000)
International                     Global
Development Association           Environmental Trust       Disbursement
Per Semester  Cumulative  %   Per Semester  Cumulative  %         Profile %
1997
1                     -           -    0              -           -    0              0
2                 560.0       560.0   2               -           -   0               3
1998
1                 840.0      1,400.0   5          400.0       400.0   2               6
2                1,680.0     3,080.0  1 1        1,400.0     1,800.0   9             1 0
1999
1               2,240.0      5,320.0  19         1,800.0     3,600.0  18             14
2                3,080.0     8,400.0  30         2,200.0     5,800.0  29             22
2000
1               3,920.0    12,320.0  44         2,400.0      8,200.0  41             26
2                4,200.0    16,520.0  59        2,800.0    11,000.0  55              34
2001
1               3,640.0    20,160.0  72         3,000.0    14,000.0  70              42
2                3,080.0    23,240.0  83        2,800.0    16,800.0  84              50
2002
1               3,360.0    26,600.0  95         1,800.0    18,600.0  93              62
2                1,400.0    28,000.0  100        1,400.0    20,000.0  100            70
2003
1                     -           - 100               -           - 100              78
2                     -           - 100               -           - 100              86
2004
1                     -           - 100               -           - 100              94
2                     -           - 100               -           - 100             100
Model Statement of Expenditure (SOE) Withdrawal Application for Village
Ecodevelopment Investment
(Rupees)
Civil Works
Force       Direct      Quotations from        Small       Livestock   Total
Name of PA and    account   contracting          qualified        equipment
State                                           contractors       and goods
EDC Namel
Investment #1
Investment #2
EDC Name2
Investment #1
Investment #2
EDC Name3
Investment #1
Investment #2
Total






221                             Annex 15
Annex 15: Project Administration
Shared Implementation Responsibilities
1.    Overview. State governments, through their existing PA authorities within the
state forest departments (SFDs) or through newly-created autonomous implementing
bodies, would be responsible for field level execution. For many project activities, the PA
authorities or implementing bodies would develop partnerships with or delegate to NGOs
and village groups. They would also contract tasks to individual specialists, professional
research and training institutions, and other groups as needed. The degree of responsibility
of PA staff, contracted experts, and local people in implementing the different project
components varies. PA officials would have the lead implementation responsibility for
improved PA management activities and hire local people to undertake some of the works.
Village ecodevelopment would involve a full partnership of local NGOs, PA staff, and
local residents in the initial negotiation of reciprocal commitments. Although the
implementation of the reciprocal commitments would also be shared, local people would
be likely to have the highest work load. Environmental education would involve extensive
use of contracted experts. A combination of PA staff and contracted experts would
conduct the monitoring and also involve local people in monitoring where possible.
Outside experts would both conduct and coordinate research, but with the mandate to
meet the needs of PA managers. Outside experts and facilitators would conduct the
financial sustainability and ecotourism strategies that are part of the long-term framework
component.
2.    PA-Level Third-Party Support. For each state forest department (SFD),
domestic third-party (contractual) implementation support would include:
(a)   Direct administrative support and services (for the initial period of project start-
up and implementation)
(b)   Full-time specialists in ecology and in social science and, in some cases, in
management information system operation
(c)    Specialists for visitor and ecotourism and financial sustainability studies.
(d)   Specialists (including NGOs) in participatory planning to be members of village
ecodevelopment microplanning support teams
(e)   Research and monitoring specialists working on biological, social, technical,
financial, and institutional aspects
(f)    Trainers.



222                                                    Annex 15
Staff Plans
Table 1: Field Executive Staff - Wildlife Wing
(Number of Filled positions)
94/95                95/96              96/97              97/98
........................................................................................... ..................................... .................................. .............................. ........................ ...
Buxa Tiger Reserve Only                                              415 !415                                 418                425
West Benga. -Entire State                                           1047                 1079               1079               1079
.....................  . ............................................................   ......................................................................... ... ...........................  .............................. 
Gir Only                                                             447                   458                458                458
g----    -     ----Entire State                                      673                   690                690                690
.........................................................................    ....................................  ...................................  ...........................    ..............................9
Nagarhole Only                                              102                   165                165                165
Karnataka - Entire State                                              565                  965                971                971
...................... ........................................................... .......... .............................
Palamnau Only.                                                       205                   205 .205                              205
Bihar - Entire State                                                  803                  803                803                803
..........................................................................................  .............................Pn h O l.7 8... . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . .   . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . .   . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . .
Pench Only                                                             78                   81                 81                 81
............................................................................................................................. .................................... ............................... ....................... ....
MadhyaPradesh -Entire State                                          1450                 1450               1500               1500
Periyar Only                                ..223                                          309..              374                374
Kerala - Entire State                                                 750                  915              1020               1020
Ranthamnbhor  Onl                                                     141                  161                161                161
................................................................................................................................................. ................ ............................... ....................... ....
Rajasthan - Entire State                                             929                   937  I             937                937
3.         hnpact on Other Conservation Staff. Project staffling plans would not adversely
affect the adequacy of staffing of other ongoing, non-project conservation activities. The
project relies on extensive contracting of consultants, mainly NGOs. Under the project, current
staff would become much more productive, due to their increased public profile (both among
local people and among government managers), greater accountability due to project work
plans and monitoring, improved access to equipment and materials, improved skills due to
project-supported human resource development, and the increased collaboration with local
people. Table 1 demonstrates that increases to PA staff from transfers within state forest
departments do not deplete the overall number of conservation staff working on non-
project activities. Net transfers to project activities in the wildlife wings of the state forest
departments appear on the table as increases to the number of filled positions shown for
the seven individual PAs listed. In each case, the forest department staffing figures given
for the entire state (italicised ) remain stable or increase, showing that there has been no
encroachment on their numbers. Project performance review would include annual updating
of the above table to ensure compliance with the legal covenant that addresses this issue
4.         Staff incentives. Within the context of the Indian bureaucratic system, and the
relatively small scale (and hence limited leverage) of this project, opportunities to affect staff



223                             Annex 15
incentives are limited. The project does provide improved amenities for junior level field staff,
and extensive training opportunities. The project design also acknowledges that lack of
incentives prevents the recruitment of qualified permanent research staff, and therefore relies on
contracted research.
PA Commiftees
5.    Committee Structure. Each PA is making its own arrangements to manage and
coordinate the project activities in accordance with local conventions. The main
innovation would be an explicit effort to expand their composition beyond government
employees and to include representatives from a range of outside specialists and
stakeholders. Although their names and functions vary among the states, PA committees
or task forces typically would include a project steering committee, a district and/or
regional coordination committee, a PA coordination/implementation task force, and an
impact monitoring and research coordination working group, an environmental education
coordination working group, and numerous ecodevelopment committees (EDCs).
National Level Coordination and Staffing
6.    National-Level Organizations. MOEF would expand existing offices to handle
the project work. MOEF would in turn be assisted by NGOs, autonomous agencies, and
consultant firms and individuals employed under contractual arrangements with MOEF.
Through these contracts, the offices would acquire substantial flexibility with respect to
appointment of temporary staff and consultants, including levels of remuneration.
7.    Project Tiger Office. The Project Tiger Office (PTO) would coordinate the project at
the national level. The PTO would expand to comprise two wings, each headed by a Joint
Director. One wing would consist of existing staff positions and continue to handle the Project
Tiger activities. The second wing would focus on the Ecodevelopment Project. The
ecodevelopment wing of the PTO would:
(a)   Promptly release funds to states in three installments
(b)   Promptly process and submit withdrawal applications for national-level
expenditures to the DEA's Controller of Aid Accounts and monitor the
progress of withdrawal applications prepared by the state governments
(c)   Compile project accounts and arrange required audits
(d)   Facilitate procurement of goods and contracting of services in a timely manner
and in accordance with Bank and government requirements
(e)   Produce semi-annual progress reports that include infonnation on the above
items, as well as other information on national-level project activities and an
overall summary of project progress
(f)   Provide training and communication outlining financial and administrative
procedures for the project
(g)   Provide additional clarification and communication on project issues as needed
between implementing states, national policy makers, donors; other national
stakeholders, and the general public



224                                                  Annex 15
(h)    Make arrangements to hire and supervise contractual specialists who would
provide implementation services and review at the national level.
Table 2: Project Tiger Office
Position                                        Existing   New Ecodevelopment  Estimated Unit Cost
........ , ,,,,,,,,,.,, .. , , ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, Wing .n  '95 s.
Director                                         1                                             150 000
.... .................................................................  ......................................................  ................................
Joint Director                                   1I                                            120,000
.............................................................................................................  ............................. " 'l ,...............   .........................................
Technical Officer                              I-,                                             100,000
..  i       .............................................  .........................  ..................................................... .............................................................. 
Acons Officer                                              1 *96,000
Assistant                                     I 1             i 2*                             54 000
Uppe  Division Clerk (UDC)                       1                                             38,000
.........  .............................*........................  .................... ..  ..............
Lower Division Clerk LDC)                       2                                              32,000
.............. .... ..............................   ... ......................... ......................................................  .................................................
~~~~~                                   1 ~~~~~~~~~~~46,000
Pers on    Assist    ts   2  1,*,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,,,,,,,,,., ..................................I .......... ...........................
Personal Assistants                            I2               1*46,000
Peon                                            2                                            I 29,000
Dispatch Rider and Driver                      .              , 2                            ' 50,000
* indicates staff needed for PPF Implementation.
8.    Preparation of Second Ecodevelopment Project. The staff of the new unit in the
Wildlife Division would make arrangements to hire and supervise contractual specialists
to:
(a)    Undertake policy studies and workshops on financial sustainability of
ecodevelopment, legal frameworks for ecodevelopment, and other policy issues
affecting the long-term institutional arrangements for ecodevelopment,
including Ecodevelopment Project II
(b)    Provide preparation guidance for Ecodevelopment Project II
(c)    Prepare proposals for specific project areas of Ecodevelopment Project II
(d)    Appraise proposals for Ecodevelopment Project II.
9.        The International Division (ID) of MOEF would take responsibility for initial
concept papers of the Biodiversity Information and Genetic/Ex-situ Conservation Projects.
The concept paper and subsequent consultations would then determine longer-term
arrangements for sustained project preparation.
National Committees
10.   The Ecodevelopment Project Steering Committee would facilitate center-state
coordination and provide policy guidance on project activities and work plans. The
committee would ensure compliance with the project legal covenant that requires that
I
Position essential during FY95/96



225                            Annex 15
regional activities outside the scope of the project not undermine the biodiversity
conservation of the project protected areas. It would meet semi-annually and be chaired by
the MOEF secretary, with the inspector general of forests as vice chair. Members would
include the Chief Conservator of Forests(CCF) - Wildlife of the state implementing the
ecodevelopment project and the Forest Research Education and Extension Project
(FREEP) ecodevelopment program, Inspector General of Forests (IGF) - Wildlife,
financial advisor, MOEF, director WLI, and representatives of NGOs contracted to
provide national-level technical support. The director of the Project Tiger Office (PTO)
would be member secretary. The member secretary may invite forest secretaries of
participating states as required. The committee would:
(a)   review state submissions of annual work plans (including staffing plans,
management arrangements, contractual services, training, implementation
schedule, and associated budgets)
(b)   recommend changes in norms for new activities that emerge over the
course of implementation
(c)   review the proposals for and findings of any regional assessment studies
financed by the project
(d)   review project progress on a semi-annual basis;
(e)   provide advice and recommendations to the Ecodevelopment Project
Implementation Board (see below) and the PTO.
11.   The Ecodevelopment Project Implementation Board (EPIB) would be an
empowered body assigned full financial and administrative powers to implement the
ecodevelopment program of both the Ecodevelopment Project and the Forest Research
Education and Extension Project(FREEP). The EPIB would be chaired ex officio by the
Inspector General of Forests (IGF) with the additional IG - Wildlife as vice chair.
Members would also comprise financial advisor - MOEF, advisor of the planning
commission, and controller of aid accounts of the Department of Economic Affairs
(DEA), or their nominees. The director of the PTO would be member secretary of the
EPIB. The EPIB would meet quarterly and as requested by the member - secretary.
12.   The composition of the EPIB would empower it to exercise all financial and
administrative powers necessary for program planning and implementation and to ensure
that the necessary governmental approvals are processed expediently within the MOEF. In
the exercise of its powers, the EPIB would carefully consider the recommendations of the
Ecodevelopment Project Steering Committee and the National Overview Committee for
Ecodevelopment.
13.   Project Governance Arrangement. During the PPF or early period of the
project, in response to NGO suggestions, MOEF intends to contract a study to consider
further strengthening arrangements for NGO partnerships in the project governance.
Flow of Funds
14.   Release of Funds. As a centrally sponsored scheme, all funds to the PAs would
flow through MOEF to the states. Release of funds to the states, with immediate
forwarding to PAs, would occur three times annually. The first installment for two
months' expenditures would be made by May 15 and the second installment for the next



226                             Annex 15
three months' expenditures would be made by June 30; each of these would be based on
final work plans and budgets. Neither the first nor the second installment would require
utilization certificates for the prior project (or PPF) year.
15.   The third installment of seven month's expenditure would be made by August 31
and would be based on:
(a)   a careful review of project progress reports from the preceding fiscal year
with a focus on consistency with project objectives and timely submission
of withdrawal applications
(b)   submission by states of "utilization certificates" that provide evidence that
previously released funds for the prior project (or PPF) fiscal year have
been spent (due from the states to PTO by June 15)
(c)   budget outstanding adjusted to reflect project performance and unspent
balances.
The end of this annex includes charts outlining the flow of funds structure and the
schedule of annual planning, budgeting, sanctioning, and fund flow.
Work Plan and Progress Report Schedule
16.   Work Plan Deadlines.
(a)   preliminary work plan to IDA by September 30
(b)   final work plan proposal to IDA by January 31
17.   Progress Report Deadlines
(a)   Report covering prior fiscal year to IDA by June 30.
(b)   Report covering first half of current fiscal year to IDA by December 31.



Budgeting and Flow of Funds Structure
Budget Sanction
lanning                                                                                 Mnistry of Finance
9ussNli55iuls 9    9                          Department of
Budget                            MOEF                  ndCOlIC
............nou
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.............  ......... ........... ....    ..  _rg n l a W  
Original and   /X        ..........
Vriginal & revised budget          'revised                                               ,.....e.,
requests                      ,                budget        r  PTI yn,sanction                                            Budgei
;requests                                                   ...........................                        Bud....g.........
Copy of state withdrawal                                                Budget                      Withdrawal:            sanction
application                          plication        'application'                                                         &funds
TT    T   I  T I  . I ,
overnment    Governnment         overnment       overnment        overnment of    overnment        overnment
of Bihar        of Gujarat       of Karnataka    of Kerala        Madhya           of Rajasthan    of West
Pradesh                          Bengal
Bihar Forest    State Forest     State Forest    State Forest     State Forest     State Forest    State Forest
Development    Department        Department      Department       Department      Department       Department
Agency          CCF, Wildlife     CF, Wildlife    CCF, Wildlife    CCF, Wildlife    CCF, Wildlife    CF, Wildlife
1'11n11ry II IT                                    1J1v    Iv 
I-   1%          I                                      I        . , ,'   I @    .  T  I            T     
Palamau           ir National    Nagarhole       Periyar          Pench           Ranthambhore   Buxa
Tiger Reserve     ark& Sanc.    National Park    Tiger Reserve   Tiger Reserve   Tiger Reserve   Tiger Reserve
Field Director    ield Director   Field Director   Field Director   Field Director   Field Director   Field Director I....................
I I   I I             I        i~~~~~Statements.
'Of
expenditure
Sr. Executive    Sr. Executive    Sr. Executive    Sr. Executive    Sr. Executive    Sr. Executive    Sr. Executive
Field with      Field with       Field with      Field with      i      l tField with              Field with                          x
Expenditure     Expenditure      Expenditure     Expenditure      Expenditure      Expenditure     Expenditure
1^   ,L 6 *._.   I   --tL   AA -- __._    I    IA . -.   _  .. I lA.L_*_  -       L _..     I|1.-_*_
AuthorityPs5&                    Mtherity    ~     LJAUA [        Athority         Attoi            -thrt



ID   Task Name                                                       A    S      0      N     D     J     F
1   Proposed annual planning, budgeting and sanctioning process
2        PT tentatively allocates budgets to tiger reserves          817
3        States prepare APO
4            Park Director prepared APO                              4811
S            Park Director submits APO to CCF                         8115
6            CCF reviews and approves APO for park                      8122
7            CCF submits APO to state FS                                8123
8            FS reviews in consultation with CCF and finance department   8130
9            FS submhts APO to PT                                        8131
10       Project Tiger prepares budget estimate reflecting state proposals      9128
11       Draft work program/budget for IDA comments                             9128
12       Project Tiger submits estimate to MOEF plan coordination division     ,929
13       PCD prepares MOEF budget estimate                                                     121
14       MOEF submit budget estimate to PC                                                     1211
15       PC review budgets of central ministries                                                        1122
16       MOEF/PC budget review discussions                                                              1123
17       PC coomunicates approval of MOEF annual budget                                                     21
18       PCD informs PT of approved budget estimate
19       PT adjusts state budgets
20       PT requests states to adjust work programs and submit APOs
In



ID   Task Name                                                      F    M      A    M      J J         A
21       PT examines and recommends APOs from states to IFD               315
22       IFD examines and informs PT of CA approval                       l       4116
23       PT receives sanction for first 2 months' budget                          4117
24       PT sanctions for 2 months' budget to state governments                       24
25       State government issues sanctions to CCF/Park directors                       518
26       PA Director start works, purchases and contracts                             5)8
27       PT receives sanction for additional budget                                        E6I7
28       PT sanction additional 3 months' budget to state governments                      *61
29       States prepare for release of remaining 7 months' funds
30           Review of project progress for the preceding fiscal year                      5/30
31           Preparation of CUs                                                              6117
32           CU documentation sent to PT                                                        117
33       PT adjusts budgets to reflect project performance and unspent bala                                8
34       PT issues sanction for final 7 months' funds to state governments
35       Flow of Funds Complete                                               I                       I
I-






231                            Annex 16
Annex 16: Project Performance Review
and Implementation Schedule'
Strategy
1.    Use of Project Performance Information. Use of implementation review and
progress reports on biological, socioeconomic, financial, institutional, and other factors
would be integral to project management, providing feedback and accountability to assist
in problem-solving and adjustment. The adaptive management approach would quickly
incorporate lessons learned from monitoring feedback. This review would provide
information on which to take corrective actions and/or further refine the project design.
2.    Purpose and Composition of Project Performance Indicators and
Benchmarks. The project implementation benchmarks outlined below would provide an
explicit estimate of performance expectations and a basis on which to measure whether the
project is performance in these initial expectations. The project performance review would
compare actual experience with the benchmarks. While the indicators would incorporate
findings about project impacts to the extent they are available from the monitoring
component (see Annex 10), there would be a need for more immediate measures of
project performance. Therefore, the project performance review would focus on measures
of project implementation (inputs. procedures and outputs) that would indicate whether
the project is following key elements of its design. These implementation indicators would
serve as interim proxies for measuring project impacts, on the assumption that the project
design would result in the desired impact. Tables 1-5 list the indicators and benchmarks.
3.    Objectives of Semi-Annual Progress Reporting. The semi-annual progress
reports would compile a selection of information that has been acquired and used for
internal management purposes, to meet the needs of outside audiences. The regular
reporting channel to the GOI, external financing agencies and project stakeholders of
project performance would:
(a)   provide summary information on project implementation status that
addresses key concerns of financiers and stakeholders
(b)   help make project management accountable and measure the effectiveness
of project management procedures
(c)   provide the tangible evidence of project benefits needed to sustain
budgetary and political support,
(d)   identify issues which require GOI or Bank intervention.
4.    Content of Semi-Annual Progress Reports. The PA field directors, MOEF
officials, and contracted specialists would be responsible for ensuring that the reports (a)
efficiently provide the information required to meet the above objectives, (b) are timely,
Guidelines subject to revision to reflect experience in practice. Revision will be documented through
exchanges of letters and comprehensive updating as needed.



232                                Annex 16
and (c) do not become a burdensome bureaucratic exercise. Field directors of each PA
would submit semi-annual progress reports to their respective state forest departments and
the PTO. These progress reports would incorporate measurement of project
implementation for all project components. They would not be limited to measuring
physical inputs and outputs -- compliance with procedural guidelines would also be
important. In addition to the implementation indicators the reports would also include data
on other aspects of project implementation status such as staffing, technical assistance,
studies, training, budget, procurement, expenditures and coordination mechanisms. The
reports would include comments on current issues and problem-solving strategies.
5.     Completion Report. The primary objective of the Project Completion Report
would be to describe and analyze the state of the project at, or shortly after, its
completion, to compare the costs and currently expected benefits with those expected at
project inception and thereby contribute to an assessment of the effectiveness of the
project and the implementing agency. It would reinforce self-evaluation, would draw
lessons from experience and would serve as a mechanism to disseminate these lessons. It
would include an assessment of the original project objectives and design and of the
methods used and decisions taken in the course of project implementation. Topics covered
would include project identification and preparation, implementation, operating
performance, financial performance, institutional performance and development, and
reevaluation of project impact and benefits.
Implementation Review
Table 1: Implementation Indicators and Benchmarks -
Improving PA Management
Project Activity      Implementation Indicators              Benchmarks for Each PA
Strengthen PA         Detailed guidelines for PA management  Completed by mid-PYl.
management plans and   plan updates agreed and completed
the capacity to        Updated comprehensive PA management   Meet guidelines and completed
implement the plans    plans which include:                  in PY 2
through specialist
advice, studies,       .  PA management work program for PY   Compliance (at least 4)
workshops, associated     3-5
travel costs, training,
and  staff             .  Ecological considerations (1-5 scale)
.  Participation arrangements (1-5 scale)
.  Incorporates initiatives from other
project components (1-5 scale)
Financial Strategy Study              Meet guidelines and completed
by end PY3
Skills Development:
*  Number of senior staff undergoing  As specified in annual work
training per year.                plans
.  Number of junior staff undergoing
training per year



233                                 Annex 16
Table 1: Implementation Indicators and Benchmarks -
Improving PA Management (continued)
Project Activity       Implementation Indicators              Benchmarks for Each PA
Incorporate PA concerns  Inventory and assessment of proposed and   Inventory and plans for further
into regional planning    ongoing activities outside scope of project   assessment available by end PY
and regulation through   that potentially could undermine PA  1 and updated yearly
provision of specialist    conservation or ecodevelopment strategy
advice, studies,       Decisions that address findings of above  Evidence of meetings, other
workshops, associated    assessment                           communication, and decisions
travel costs, training,
and staff              Replicable model for integrating PA    Existence of new guidelines or
concerns into regional planning and    practices in PY 1 and evidence
regulation (1-5 scale)                 of implementation in PY 2-5
Protect and manage     Composition of Investments             Meets criteria for urgent
ecosystems and habitats                                       investments or arises from
through eocsystem and                                         updated PA management plan
habitat restoration,   No. of restoration investments         As specified in annual work
improvements in fire,                                         plans
poaching and ammal
control, and           Specialist Capacity                    Environmental specialist hired
improvements in                                               and functioning by mid-PYl
environmental
managermental oChange in amount of poaching per year          No increase
nmanagement of
enterprise and visitor  Fire detection and control            Significant percentage increase
enclaves                                                      in response time above pre-
project levels
Improved environmental quality of     Evidence of improvements
enclaves:
Upgrade PA amenities    Investments                           As specified in annual work
for field staff through                                       plans
investments in         Staff Attitude Survey in PY I and PY 5  Statistically significant
accomnmodations and                                                      significant
facilities                                                    improvement



234                                  Annex 16
Table 2: Implementation Indicators and Benchmarks -
Village Ecodevelopment
Project Activity        Implementation Indicators              Benchmarks for Each PA
Conduct microplanning   Capacity to prepare microplans meeting  As specified in annual work
and implementation     project specifications                  plans
provision of contracted    *  Specialist Capacity              Social Scientist hired and
prvso ofcnrce                                                 functiorling by mid PY1
NGOs, expert advisors,
workshops, materials,   .  NGO Services Contracted             Contracting keeps pace with
training, PA staff, and                                        growing workload
associated travel
*  Number of Support Teams Mobilized    As specified in annual work
and Trained                        plan
*  No. of SFA field staff, NGO staff, and   At least 75% of each
villagers trained and/or participated in  stakeholder group in support
study tours                        teams, and at least 75% of EDC
Executive Committee members,
including women.
*  Government Order                    Meets project specifications and
approved by end PY1
Content and Coverage of Microplans
*  Microplanning follows agreed steps  At least 4
and standards (1-5 scale)
  Number of EDCs (and people covered   Cumulative totals of plans in
that have initiated microplanning  Annex 8
.  Number of completed and approved
microplans (and people covered) that
specify reciprocal agreements and meet
eligibility criteria
*  Percent disadvantaged groups'       At least equivalent to percent in
representatives in EDC executive   EDC
committee
.  Number of EDC meetings held per     At least four
year
Availability of technical assistance from  At least 4
government agencies, NGOs, or others (1-5
scale)
Corrective action in response to monitoring  Examples of problems
results                                identified and corrective action
_  beginning in PY2



235                                 Annex 16
Table 2: Implementation Indicators and Benchmarks -
Village Ecodevelopment (continued)
Project Activity       Implementation Indicators              Benchmarks for Each PA
Implement reciprocal   Reciprocal Comnmitments
commitments and
assommiatmedinvestens    a*  Follows record keeping guidelines  At least 4
associated investments     (using 1-5 scale)
through (a) specific
measurable actions by  *  Meets expenditure requirements of:
local people to improve
conservation and (b)       (a) beneficiary contribution       All investments
investments that foster    (b) budget constraint, state norms, or
alternative livelihoods    granted waiver
and resource uses, and
adrs s, a *  Compliance with commitments (e.g.    at least 75%
timing of release of funds/inputs, use of
PA resources, etc.)
Beneficiaries
*  Total number of beneficiaries       Equal to number of forest-
dependent households
*  Number of tribals receiving benefits  Greater than % in EDC
*  Number of other disadvantaged people  Greater than % in EDC
receiving benefits
*  Number of women receiving benefits    At least 50% of all beneficiaries
Community empowerment
*  Non-ecodevelopment funded
development initiatives undertaken by
EDCs and communities               Cite specific examples
  Independent conservation initiatives    Cite specific examples
Development of EDC implementation      Cite specific examples
capacity                                   .-
Additional Joint Forest   Land area (ha)                      Annual work plans
Management
Voluntary Relocation   Number of People Consulted             All potential participants
Extent to which relocation plans meet  Actual relocation based only on
eligibility requirements               plans that fully meet eligibility
requirements
Supplemental           Level of Expenditures                  Less than 18% of PA's total
Investments                                                   investments associated with
reciprocal agreements
Special needs (see Annex 8 para. 72)   Special need explained for each
investment



236                                 Annex 16
Table 3: Implementation Indicators and Benchmarks -
Developing More Effective and Extensive Support
Project Activity       Implementation Indicators              Benchmarks for Each PA
Develop environmental   PA-specific strategies for environmental    Meets guidelines and
education and improve    education and visitor management/    completed in PY 2
visitor management     ecotourism
through provision of
local NGO support,     Number of days of activity             As specified in annual work
wprk vshops, phyicn,                                          plans consistent with strategy
workshops, physical.
facilities, equipment, and  Number of people contacted
education materials    Understanding of issues by participants  Increase in understanding by
measured by annual survey              participants
Number of independent local conservation   List efforts
efforts
Impact monitoring and    Impact Monitoring Strategy           Consistent with conceptual
research through                                              framework, meets guidelines on
contracted                                                    content, and completed in PY I
implementation support   Operation of Monitoring System
from institutions and
individuals, expert    a  Timing of reports meet deadlines    Reports meet deadlines
advice, studies, facilities,         . .  .
equipment, training,   *  Use of moitorng iformation          Evidence of adjustment in
workshops, transport,                                         project operation and/or design
and materials          Research Strategy                      Meets guidelines and
completed in PY 2
Operation of Research Program
*  Number of projects                  As specified in annual work
plans consistent with research
strategy
.  Mix of disciplines                 Includes at least 40% socio-
economic research
*  Design quality as judged by external    At least 4
reviewers (scale of I to 5
Contractual monitoring and research
capacity
*  Number of institutions contracted   As specified in annual work
plans
.  Number of individuals contracted   c;



237                                 Annex 16
Table 4: Implementation Indicators and Benchmarks -
Overall Project Management
Project Activity       Implementation Indicators              Benchmarks
PA-level and national-    Staff plan filled                   PYI
level adminstration    Sr. staff transfers do not exceed 25% in any  Compliance
through provision of   one year
direct adnministrative
services provided by staff No decrease in number of non-PA state  SAR Annex 15 Table 1
and contractual support   wildlife staff
Non GEF & IDA expenditures for         Data in Annex 2 taables
biodiversity do not decrease in rreal terms
at national state and PA levels
Timeliness of work plans, progress reports,  Meet deadlines in Annexes 14
flow of funds, procurement and consultant   & 15
contracting, and withdrawal applications
Disbursement rates compared with SAR   At least 75e  of projections
projections
Integration of strategies, guidelines,  At least 4
implementation review findings and
adaptive management decisions into work
_plans and progress reports (1-5 scale)
Improve multi-state    SAR in Hindi, and relevant portions in
learning and           other first languages of local NGOs:
dissemination through    *  Number of pages translated
translation, publicity,
and dissemination      *  Completion                          Completed PYI
services               Project Documents Readily and pulically
Accessible: timeliness of response to
inquiries                              Not to exceed two weeks
Newsletter
.  Number of issues/year               At least semi-annually
*  Size of distribution
Video Production
*  Completion                          Completed by end PY 3
.  Number of showings
National-level         Performance of each contract evaluated  At least 4
implementation         against TOR (1-5 scale semi-annually)
guidelines and capacity
building through
contacted experts,
workshops, training, and
associated travel



238                                  Annex 16
National-level          Performance of each contract evaluated  At least 4
implementation review    against TOR (1-5 scale semi-annually)
through contracted                         .  .       .
experts, workshops,     managemernt                            project operation and/or design
training, and associated
travel
Policy and strategic    Performance of each contract evaluated  At least 4
framework studies       against TOR (1-5 scale semi-annually)
Table 5: Implementation Indicators and Benchmarks -
Project Preparation Component
Project Activity        Implementation Indicators              Benchmarks
Prepare Second         Proposal containing processes and contents  As specified in annual work
Ecodevelopment Project  outlined in SAR Annex 12               plans
Prepare Biodiversity   Proposal containing processes and contents  As specified in annual work
Information Project     outlined in SAR Annex 12               plans
Prepare Ex-situ Genetic   Proposal containing processes and contents  As specified in annual work
Resource Conservation    outlined in SAR Annex 12              plans
Project



Table 6: Project Performance Monitoring Indicators
Project Objective               Expected Project Impact   I Means of Inpact Evaluation   Project Inputs               Imnplementatlon Indicators     Project Risks
Development Objective 1: Improved Protected Area (PA) Management - To improve capacity of PA management to conserve biodiversity and increase opportunities for local participation
in PA management activities and decision making
Strengthen PA management plans   Broadened focus in PA plans   To be determined as part of  Specialist advice, studies,  Updated comprehensive PA    Some Government staff may
and the capacity to implement the   to more comprehensively  Impact Monitoring and       workshops, associated travel,    management plans meet      not be committed to local
plans                           cover ecological            Research Component -- see    training                     guidelines and are completed in   participatory decision-
considerations, PA-related  SAR Annex 10                                              PY2                            making.
concerns of local people, and
strategies for relevant                                                                                              The project may not be able
programs (e.g., research,                                                                                           to adequately handle the
environmental education, and                                                                                         different perspectives and
ecotourismn)                                                                                                         agendas of biologists and
ecotourism)________________                                                           __________________________      social scientists
Incorporate PA concerns into   Compliance with project                                   Specialist advice, studies,  Inventory and assessment of    Pressures of population
regional planning and regulation    covenant that activities                             workshops, associated travel,   proposed and ongoing activities   growth, poverty and
outside scope of the project                            training                      outside scope of project are   commercial interests may
would not undermine                                                                   available by end PY I and      undermine project efforts
biodiversity conservation and                                                         updated yearly
ecodevelopment strategy, and
creation of a replicable model
for other PAs to address
regional impacts                             .
Protect and manage ecosystems  Restored ecosystems and                                   Restoration and control works,   Composition of investments  The project and financiers
and habitats                   habitats, improved fire                                   associated supervision,      meets criteria for urgent      may be associated with and
control, byproduct sharing                               communications equipment,    investments or arises from     blamed for negative trends
and increased employment                                 vehicles, access track       updated PA management plan     and unmet needs that do not
for local people                                        improvements, fire watch                                     stem from the project.
towers, sign boards, and
bound   markers                                                      ._
Upgrade PA amenities for field  Improved staff morale and                                Limited quarters for PA staff,   Investments as specified in
staff                           increased time of staff in field                         patrol camps, drinking water    project cost estimates and
and electricity supplies, career   adjusted in approved annual
development training, and field   work plans
kits.
x
X-
cr



Project Objective              Expected Project Inpact   I Means of Impact Evaluation I Project Inmputs               I plementation Indicators      Project Risks
Development Objective 2: Vilage Ecodevelopment - - To reduce negative impacts of local people on biodiversity, reduce negative impacts of PAs on local people, and increase collaboration of
local people in conservation efforts
Conduct microplanning and      Conflict resolution, increased   To be detennined as part of  Contracted local NGOs, expert  Number of support teams  Some Governmernt staff may
implementation support         capacity of local people to  Impact Monitoring and        advisors, workshops, materials,  mobilized as specified in annual   not be committed to
obtain support services and to   Research Component -- see  trainmig of goverrunent staff,    work plans and are sufficient to   participatory decision-
negotiate with outsiders,   SAR Annex 10                 NGOs, and local people, PA   cover microplan and people     making
preservation and application                             staff, and associated travel  benchmarks (see below)
of traditional knowledge, and                                                                                        Some local communities,
increased role of local people                                                                                       disadvantaged groups, and
in helping PA protection                                                              Number of completed and        NGOs may not trust the
approved microplans (and      initiatives of project
people covered) that specifyr
reciprocal agreements and meet   Some project staff may not
eligibility criteria correspond to   develop the operational skills
cumulative totals in Annex 8  needed to implement process-
Section E                     oriented project design
Implement reciprocal           Reduction in unstainable                                  Actions by local people to   More than 75% of the reciprocal  The project and financiers
commitments comprising         resource uses by local people,                           improve conservation and      commitments comply with        may be associated with and
measuable actions to improve   partial offsetting of negative                            investments that foster      project guidelines (e.g. release    blamed for negative trends
conservation and associated    economic and cultural                                     alternative livelihoods and  of funds/inputs timing, use of  and unmet needs that do not
investments that foster altemative   impacts of PAs on local                             resource uses (e.g., biomass  PA resources, etc.)          stem from the project
resource uses and livelihoods  people, and increased                                     substitutions, biomass
capacity of local people to                              generation and forestry,     Percentage benefits going to   The project may not be able
sustainably meet basic needs                             ecotourism, agriculture      tribals exceeds the percentage of  to adequately handle the
including watershed          tribal members in EDCs        different perspectives and
management, small irrigation,         to   ~agendas of biologists and
l aIivestock, a-all irrigatioin  Percentage of benefits going to    social scientists
livstck,ago-pocssig nd women exceeds 50%
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~~artisanry)
Implement special programs in  Increased forest protection                               JFM microplanning and        Actual relocation based only on   The project and financiers
joint forest management,        and production in two PAs,                               forestry works, contracted   plans that fully meet project  may be associated with and
voluntary relocation, and       creation of a model to                                   local NGOs, expert advisors,    criteria and procedures     blamed for negative trends
discretionary funds for special  respond to people's wishes                              workshops, materials, and                                   and unmet needs that do not
needs                           and to reduce population                                 associated travel, transitional                             stem from project activities
pressure through ineentives,                             support funds, cultural
and increased capacity of PA                             investments, and additional
managers to respond to                                   funding for village
special site-specific needs                              ecodevelopment investments
a.'



Project Objective              Expected Project Impact      Means of Impact Evaluation   Project Inputs               Implementation Indicators      Project Risks
Development Objective 3: Education & Awareness and Impact Monitoring and Research -- To develop more effective and exte sive support for conservation and ecodevelopment
Develop environmental education   Expansion of public      To be determined as part of   Local NGOs, expert advisors,   Strategies meet guidelines and  For visitor management and
and awareness, improve visitor  understanding, support, and    Impact Monitoring and     training, workshops, physical    are completed on schedule.  ecotourism, commercial or
management, and develop        incentives for conservation,    Research Component -- see  facilities, equipment, and                                 other vested interests may
ecotourism                     and reduced adverse impact    SAR Annex 10                educational and other        Number of people contacted     undermiine project efforts
of visitor                                               materials                    consistent with annual work
plans and consistent with
strategies
Impact monitoring and research  Provision of information                                 Contracted institutions and  Impact monitoring reports meet   Project may not have access
needed to assess project                                 individuals, including local  deadlines specified in agreed  to adequate technical
impacts and to improve                                   people, facility improvements,   strategy                   expertise,
guidelines, policies and                                 training, workshops, transport
strategies for PA                                        and materials                                               Some project managers may
management and village                                                                Number of research projects    not be able to process and
ecodevelopment                                                                        meets plans specified in research   fmalize contracts and
strategy                      administer fund flow
efficiently and effectively
Development Objective 4: Overl Project Management -- To ensure effective management of the project
PA-level and national-level     Integration, timeliness,    To be determined as part of  Administrative, financial,   Timeliness of work plans,      Project may not be able to
management                      dissemination, quality,     Impact Monitoring and        communication, technical, and   progress reports, and flow of  develop sufficient operational
control, accountability, and  Research Component -- see  review services from staff and   funds complies with deadlines    skills to implement process-
adaptability by project     SAR Annex 10                 contracted experts including  specified in Annex 15         oriented project design
managers.                   NGOs.                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Some project managers may
not be able to process and
finalize contracts, administer
fund flow, and handle
performance review
efficiently and effectively
Development Objective 5: Preparation of Future Biodiversity Projects -- to prepare future biodiversity projects
Project Preparation            Biodiversity proposals       To be determined as part of  Experts including NGOs,      Proposal containing processes  Some project managers may
eligible for GEF, IDA, and  Impact Monitoring and        studies, and workshops       and contents outlined in SAR   not be able to process and
other donor consideration   Research Component - see                                  Annex 12 as specified in annual  finalize contracts and
SAR Annex 10                                              work plans and cornpleted by   administer fund flow
end of PY5                    efficiently and effectively
X



242                            Annex 16
Semi-Annual Progress Report: Preliminary Draft Outline of Contents
1.    Status of Performance Monitoring Indicators: Matrix (Table 6) presenting
results for each PA and overall project. Tables 1-5 specifying implementation indicators
and benchmarks for each PA and overall project would be included as attachments at end
of progress report.
2.    Project Impacts And Dynamics: Summary text describing impact monitoring
findings, if any.
3.    Problem solving.
(a)   What are the main constraints to implementation during the last six
months?
(b)   What actions are required to address these constraints? Who would be
responsible for these actions?
(c)   What constraints are anticipated during the next six months?
(d)   What preventive actions would address these constraints? Who would be
responsible for these actions?
(e)   What are the results of the action recommendations from the previous
progress report?
4.    Staffing.
(a)   PA staffing: Number of senior and junior staff compared with staff plan
(b)   Wildlife wing staffing: Number of total staff throughout state in wildlife
wing compared to pre-project
(c)   Comments on impact of project on the capacity for non project wildlife
problems
5.    Works And Goods Contracts And Physical Progress.
(a)   Local Shopping and Contract Awards (excluding village ecodevelopment
investments and
(b)   Physical Progress by Contract Compared to Contract Timetable
6.    Consultant (Including NGOs And Autonomous Agencies) Recruitment And
Work Progress. For each contract indicating status of
(a)   Terms of Reference
(b)   Short lists or sole source justifications
(c)   Requests for proposals
(d)   Evaluation of proposal
(e)   Contract Signing
(f)    Consultant Activity Progress and
(g)   Consultant Reports



243                           Annex 16
7.    Project Costs and Inputs: Project Expenditures by Project Objective (compared
with budget, in matrix format for each fiscal year consistent with format of cost tables in
Annex 13)
8.    Financial Management.
(a)   Status of Project Accounting Systems and Procedures
(b)   Government Budget Provision
(c)   Status of Fund Advances
(d)   Disbursement Claims
(i)   Expenditure
(ii)   Amount due for reimbursement
(iii)   Amount claimed
(iv)   Amount received
(v)   Balance outstanding
(vi)   Documented or SOEs and
(e)   Status of Financial Statements, Audits, and Expenditure/Procurement
Review
9.    Biodiversity Expenditures
(a)   Non Project Budget/Expenditures of State Wildlife Wing with notes
explaining decreases in real terms, if any, from pre-project levels
(b)   Non Project Budgets/Expenditures of the overall MOEF plan budget
affecting biodiversity with notes explaining any decreases in real terms, if
any, from pre-project levels
10.   Status of Project Legal Covenants (in standard Bank format)



244                                        Annex 16
Project Implementation Schedule
ID   Task Name                                          96    96    97    98    99    00    01    02
1   Bank Processing                                            i                 _     _ -  -
2       Yellow Cover                                 1i -8111
3       Invitation to Negotiate                           7/15  7/15
4        Negotiation                                       7130  816
5       Board Presentation                                 9/11  911
6       Grant/Credit Signing                               10/21  10/21
7        Effectiveness                                      12/31  12/31
8       Completion                                                                         12/31  12/31
9       Closing                                                                                  7/1  71
10   Bank Supervision                                                      -     - .                -
11       PPF Review Mission                                 1013  10/18
12       Supervision - Prior to Mid4erm Review
13           First                                             2/3  2/21
14           Second                                             4/4 1424
16           Third                                                10/21 II11/1O
16           Fourth                                                   4/15 1 5/5
17           Fifth                                                       10/1 1 10/21
18       Mid-term Review                                                    2/5  3/4
19       Supervision - After Mid4erm Review
26       Completion Review                                                                       10/31
27   PPF - Pre-effectivenes Activities
28       PPF EFC Clearance                             1/21 r11/2,
29       Completion of Pre-Negotiation Steps                     7/15
30       National Level
37       PA Level
38           Project Start-up Planning                  2/15        12/31
39           Microplanning                                4/3       12/31
40           Implementation of Reciprocal Agreements        9/20   12/31
41           Special programs                               9/20   12/31
42   Project Activities - Post-Effectiveness                      .      ,       _                _
43       Improve PA Management                                                       I     I    T
44           Strengthen PA Management Plans                       .                     _         _



245                                       Annex 16
ID   Task Name                                        97    98 9    99 J 00 I 01 | 02   03    04
45              Initial Update                             ^1     12/291    l      l
46               Ongoing Revision                          12130                    12/25
47           Regional Planning and Regulation          _                            12/25
48           Financial Sustainability Study                             12/28
49           Protecting and Managing Ecosystems
50              Investments Prior to Updated PA Plans             12/29
61              Implementation of PA Management Plans      12/30                    12/25
52       Village Ecodevelopment                                                   T
53           Participatory Microplanning               _                         6/26
54          Implementating Reciprocal Agreements       _12/25
55           Special Fringe Area Programs                                    I    T
56               Additional Joint Forest Management                                 12125
57               Voluntary Relocation Planning                     6/29
58               Voluntary Relocation Implementation                                12/25
59       Env. EdNisitor Man. and Mon/Research
60           Environmental Education & Visitor Manage   _
61               Strategies                               9/30
62              Implementation of Strategies          0/1                           12/25
63           Monitoring of Impacts and Status
64               Development of site-specific plan       7/1
65               Data Collection                       1V25
66           Research
67               Site-specific Strategy                  711
68               Studies and Implementation of Strategy   /2                        12/25
69       Project management                                                         12/25
70       Preparation of Other Biodiversity Projects    _
71           Biodiversity Information                                   12/28
72           Ex-situ Conservation                                       12/28
73           Second Ecodevelopment Project
74               Development of Preparation Guidelines  5/6
75               Prepare specific proposals                         5/4
76               GOI appraise submitted proposals              5 5     11/2



I



247                             Annex 17
Annex 17: Environmental Analysis
1.    The India Ecodevelopment Project is classified as a "B" category project according to
the Bank's Operational Directive 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), because it is not likely to
have major adverse environmental impacts. I-Iowever, in order to ensure that project
investments meet the objectives of protecting the environment, a preliminary environmental
analysis was initiated during the project preparatory phase.
2.    The purpose of the environmental analysis of the India Ecodevelopment Project is to:
(a)    Assess the potential environmental impact, if any, of activities proposed in the
indicative plans;
(b)   Assess the degree to which environmental safeguards are incorporated into
existing project designs and operations
(c)    Recommend appropriate measures for strengthening environmental
management within the Project.
The environmental analysis is confined to the discussion of the environmental and not the
social aspects of the Project. (The Social Assessment is outlined in Annex 18).
3.    The Indira Gandhi Conservation Monitoring Center (IGCMC) of the Worldwide
Fund for Nature - India and the Wildlife Institute of India (WIl) were responsible for
studying project proposals and other relevant materials and providing a preliminary
analysis of the environmental issues related to the project. Their analyses constitute an
initial discussion of environmental impacts relevant to the project. They also provide a
framework for incorporating site specific analysis on an ongoing basis during project
implementation. This Annex summarizes the analyses.
Project Activities
4.    The activities supported under the India Ecodevelopment Project comprise:
(a)   Improved Protected Area Management
(b)   Village Ecodevelopment
(c)    Education, Impact Monitoring and Research
(d)   Overall Project Management
(e)    Preparation of Future Biodiversity Projects.
5.    The analysis was confined to the broad range of activities falling under categories (a)
and (b) above, because these are the field development activities. Category (c) was excluded
because it represents a set of supportive activities (education, research, etc.) that does not have
potential to cause direct environmental impacts. Category (d) involves staffing and temporary
office facilities for the duration of the project. Proposed activities under category (e) are still to
be defined and are not to be implemented under the current project. An environmental analysis
of the project concepts would be done during their design.



248                             Annex 17
Potential Environmental Impact
6.    The preliminary environmental analysis included examination of the potential effects of
a wide range of activities on the environment, the safeguards or mitigation measures provided
under existing operational procedures, and the existing capability for sound implementation
(see Tables 1 and 2). Preliminary analysis indicates that project activities would produce
beneficial environmental impacts, by improving productivity of forest and non-forest resources
and reducing existing pressures on protected area resources. Most of the proposed project
activities identified in the indicative plans are small-scale and localized. The potential of these
activities for adverse impact is therefore, lirnited in scope and significance. Most activities are
also expected to be labor-intensive and involve little mechanization and construction work.
7.    The initial environmental analyses confirms that the specifics of project activities would
conform to environmental protection objectives. However, it also includes preliminary
recommendations for improving environmental considerations in the design and operations,
and for improving skills and training to implement them, where these are inadequate.
Protected Area Management
8.    In this component a range of management and protection activities will evolve
from a participatory PA planning process. The type of technologies generally applied in
PAs, the likely scale of operations, and local environmental conditions make it unlikely
that the potential for impact will be significant in scope It should be easily manageable
within current operational procedures and guidelines. Nevertheless,, management
investments will be monitored by further site-specific reviews to ensure that threats to
biodiversity and environmental conditions do not develop later. The PA management
investments can be grouped into the following categories:
(a)   Eradication of weeds and assisted regeneration of native species
(b)    Small soil and water conservation works, including check and stop dams,
bunds, ponds, desilting, gully plugging, etc.
(c)   Construction of communication towers, fire lines and watch towers,
improvements of existing roads, sign boards, boundary markers, etc.
(d)   Animal control structures, such as electric fences and stone walls;small-
scale administrative, staff and research buildings
(e)    Small solid waste disposal infrastructure works
Village Ecodevelopment
9.    In this component the scope and nature of a range of development activities, would be
determined and implemented by local communities on a village by village basis according to
local environmental conditions and needs. Using participatory rural appraisal surveys in
sample communities in and around the PAs, the project preparation teams have identified
an indicative list of possible ecodevelopment investments. These investments can be
grouped into the following categories:
(a)    Construction of crop protection structures such as stone walls, trenches, and
energized fences



249                             Annex 17
(b)   Establishment of fuelwood, fodder, and agroforestry plantations
(c)    Construction of village-level irrigation facilities, most probably tube wells, stop
dams, and micro-irrigation schemes
(d)   Promotion of small scale crop and agricultural development activities such as
sericulture, mushroom, and sisal cultivation
(e)    Development of small scale farm- and non-farm-based alternative income
generation operations such as poultry rearing, bee keeping, lac production,
handicrafts, tailoring
(f)    Promotion of improved energy saving devices such as biogas plants, solar
cookers, and improved chulas.
10.   These investment ideas will require monitoring in site-specific review to judge
whether they meet eligibility criteria. Not all investments would necessarily be adopted;
others may be identified during more detailed planning.
11.   All ecodevelopment activities established under the project would go through a
rigorous process of participatory microplanning at the local level to ensure that proposed
activities are consistent with the environmental and social objectives of the project. PA
staff and local NGOs would meet, as appropriately trained support teams, with the
targeted communities to help them develop their plans in detail. The teams would also
conduct feasibility analyses for social and environmental soundness of proposed
ecodevelopment investments and ascertain whether the proposed investments would meet
the eligibility criteria. Only activities meeting all of the above criteria would be financed
under the project. Annex 8 explains the eligibility criteria and microplanning process.
Future Action Proposed
12.   As a follow-up to the preliminary work of the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), and
Worldwide Fund for Nature - India (WWF), a contracted national-level organization
would review plans for initial improvements in PA management and initial microplans, and
develop further guidelines as needed to address specific issues. Thereafter, PA ecologists
would carry out site-specific environmental analysis of selected project interventions. Only
activities that are environmentally sound according to the above analysis would be eligible
for financing under the project. The PA performance review and the national level review
teams would monitor compliance with this environmental eligibility criteria.



250                                 Annex 17
Table 1: Protected Area Management: Indicative Activities and Their
Probable Environmental Effects
Activities       Size and Scope                Environmental    Safeguards & Mitigation
Effects
Ecorestoration of  Works generally of small-scale   Limited soil  Areas for restoration are usually
degraded         involving only a few hectares at  disturbance and  highly degraded. Activity small
habitats.        each site. Would consist of   exposure of soil    and widely dispersed. Vegetative
uprooting noxious weeds,     for short periods.   soil conservation works applied.
surface ploughing and seeding                   No use of agro-chemicals and
of variety of local vegetation.                pesticides applied within the PAs.
No introduction of exotic                       Very limited adverse
species.                                       environmental impact potential.
Works will improve wildlife
habitat and diversify the
availability of wildlife feeding
points.
Soil and water   Usually small-scale soil      Some disturbance   Basic designs specified in forest
conservation     conservation and water-       to streamflows,   department documents and
works.           harvesting structures to improve  accelerated stream   construction sound. All
conditions for natural       bank erosion and   construction done by hand during
regeneration of food and fodder   disruption of  dry season, thus limiting
species and provide water    surface runoff    construction related environmental
supply for wildlife. The water    patterns.     impacts. Embankments stabilized
harvesting structures would be                 by vegetative measures. Impacts
augmented by de-silting of                      anticipated to be limited and
natural streambed hollows and                   manageable.
construction or restoration of
stop dams, ponds, bunds, etc.
These structures will increase
and diversify the availability of
wildlife watering points and
improve the security of water
and food supplies. The soil
conservation structures would
include gully plugs, gabions,
stone walls and other small-
scale structures.
Construction of    Works generally small-scale  Some soil        Location of structures and access
sign boards, fire   and dispersed. Sign boards and   disturbance  should be based on biological and
watch towers and   boundary markers located in  during transport   environmental considerations.
communication    periphery of PAs.             and construction.   Most activities are small-scale and
towers, sign                                   Occupation of fire  would be completed in dry season
boards, boundary                               watch towers will  reducing potential for soil erosion.
markers.                                       be confined to    watch towers should be located in
limited periods of   manner to minimize disturbance to
the year.         habitats and wildlife. Improved
communication and fire control
will have a positive impact on PAs.



251                                    Annex 17
Activities         Size and Scope                  Environmental       Safeguards & Mitigation
Effects
Road               Usually 10 feet wide, unpaved,    Soil erosion and  Basic design is sound. Some
improvements.      constructed at grade: road      drainage            periodic waterlogging of road
rehabilitation, mainly confined   impairment if    surface may occur, but this is a
to repair of table drains and   design does not     minor problem. Collection of soil
stream crossings. No new road   incorporate good    from forest should be avoided. No
construction. Existing design   construction        serious impact anticipated.
available with forest           parameters.
departments provides for drains  Temporary
on both sides and dry stone     disturbance
steam crossing. Staff capacity is  during period of
adequate.                       maintenance work
due to influx of
laborers.
Animal control     Would include electric fences,    Would involve     Location of structures should be
structures.        stone walls, trenches, etc. to  some clearing of    based on careful scientific study
control animals in particular   vegetation along    and research. Electric fencing
elephants from straying into    the transect line.    should be given preference over
habitations and fields.         However, most      trenching.
structures will be
constructed along
the perimeters of
the PA. May
involve disruption
of wildlife
movements to
surrounding
forests if not
properly planned.
Construction of    Would include small buildings    Some vegetation    Location of structures to be
staff,            for guards and rangers, limited    clearance and soil  carefully planned to minimize
administrative     research and administrative     disturbance         impacts on critical habitats and
and research       facilities and few small field  during              avoidance of disruption of
buildings.         research stations. Most         construction.       migratory routes. However, most
buildings would be located      Buildings will     structures are small-scale and
individually and dispersed.     require creation of  would be completed in dry season
Administrative and research     access.            reducing potential for soil erosion.
buildings will be located outside                   Occupation levels at these
or in the periphery of the PAs.                    buildings would generally be low
reducing levels of disturbance to
wildlife. Area around facilities
will be revegetated. Acceptable
building plans exists with the forest
departments.



252                                  Annex 17
Activities        Size and Scope                Environmental    Safeguards & Mitigation
Effects
Solid waste       Would likely include latrines,    Would have a   Solid waste disposal systems
disposal works.    garbage collection structures  positive impact in  should be suitably located. Care
and use of tractors to transport   reducing health    should be taken in the collection,
garbage to outside locations.  hazards and       transport and disposal of wastes to
These would be largely located    controlling the  avoid further degradation of the
in areas presently utilized by  spread of        environment.
pilgrims, e.g. Sabarimala     hazardous
temple in Periyar and in      materials.
Ranthambhore.                 Garbage dumps
could attract
animals if not
appropriately
._______ _______   __________ _________ __located.
Table 2: Village Ecodevelopment: Indicative Activities and Their Probable
Environmental Effects
Activities      Size and Scope           Environmental Effects    Safeguards & Mitigation
Crop protection  Construction of stone   These structures can      Needs to be designed and located
structures.     walls, trenches, energized  inhibit wildlife       after taking into consideration
fences, etc. Usually     movements between the    wildlife migratory needs.
constructed along the    PA and habitats outside, if  Structures need regular
edges between the forest    not properly planned and   maintenance. Local people must be
and villages to keep     located Trenches can     involved in planning and
wildlife animals away    induce erosion unless    maintenance of these structures.
from crops and           regularly maintained.
settlements.             Energized fences need
regular maintenance. May
sometimes cause
resentment by the local
people if they prevent
domestic livestock from
entering the PA.



253                                 Annex 17
Activities         Size and Scope        Environmental Effects   Safeguards & Mitigation
Fuelwood, fodder,    Small-scale village  Positive impact on the  Most of these plantations would be
agroforestry       based plots located   PA by reducing current    established through joint forest
plantations and    outside PA boundaries  dependencies and       approaches involving multipurpose
joint forest       to provide fodder, fuel  improving environmental  species on degraded land. No
management         and other products to   conditions by increasing   serious environmental issues
programs.          relieve current       vegetation cover on     anticipated.
dependencies on PA    degraded lands. Possible
resources. Most of this  reduction of biodiversity
biomass would be     in areas to be planted up
raised on already    under monoculture
degraded land or     regimes.
through improved
protection of degraded
forest lands.
Monocultures would
be avoided and
multipurpose local
species promoted.
Construction of    Specific investments    Disturbance of        Structures are built to a standard
water harvesting   include tube wells,   streamflows, accelerated   design. In most cases, may only
and irrigation     hand pumps and stop   steam bank erosion,    involve de-silting or bund
structures and     dams. Micro-          disruption of surface   renovations, desilting of canals, etc.
systems.           irrigation schemes    runoff patterns.        Most are minor-scale works with
may also be                                  minimal environmental
constructed or                               consequences. Although, very
rehabilitated. Most                          unlikely to be part of the project, if
work would be done                           large scale works are proposed they
by hand or light                             would be preceded by an
equipment in the dry                         environmental assessment.
season to minimize
soil loss and erosion.
Bunds would be
usually vegetated.
Irrigation canals
would be shallow,
small & con-structed
to low gradient.



254                                  Annex 17
Activities          Size and Scope        Environmental Effects    Safeguards & Mitigation
Small scale crop   Improved extension,    Possible increase of     The principal agricultural input
and agricultural    planting stock,       fertilizer and chemical  would be cow dung. Subsistence
development         agronomic practices,   usage. Pesticide residues  farmers presently are, and in the
activities.         diversification, credit  in environment; and   future will probably continue to be,
and marketing to      occupational and health    unable to finance purchase of
improve productivity   problems. Localized    artificial fertilizers. The intensity
of existing small    eutropication of surface    of development would be so low
subsistence farmer   waters.                  (limited to merely deflecting
fields. Little or no                          existing dependencies on PA
expansion of crop                             resources) that any residues flowing
lands has been                                into the environment would be
proposed.                                      small in relation to assimilative
capacity and unlikely to register
significant adverse impacts.
Conversely, the use of increased
inputs would generally be desirable
in the wider context since it would
increase local incomes and reduce
pressures on the PA resources.
Small scale farm    Most activities small-  Possible introduction of    Most activities are small-scale; and
and non-farm based  scale, implemented at  exotic species, conversion  introduced in a highly diversified
alternative income   the household level,    of natural habitats,  production set-up, thereby reducing
generating          and with low external  diseases, etc.          opportunity for concentration of any
activities.         inputs. Possible                               adverse impacts. The proposed
activities include bee-                       programs have potential for
keeping, mushroom                             improving incomes of the local
cultivation,                                  people and deflecting pressures on
sericulture, lac                              the forest and environment.
production,
handicrafts, tailoring,
weaving, improved
livestock, ecotourism,
etc.
Biomass             Promotion of          Positive impacts on the  Encouraging less use of forest
substitution through  improved household    environment.          resources.
energy saving       stoves, biogas plants,
devices.            solar cookers, etc.



255                             Annex 18
Annex 18: Social Assessment
Introduction
1.    Importance of Interactions. The sustainability of biodiversity conservation in
protected areas (PAs) depends above all on the nature of human interactions with PA
resources. The design of the Ecodevelopment Project is based on this understanding. The
establishment of PAs significantly affects a variety of human population groups; these
groups in turn have a significant impact on the PA. Project investments designed to
minimize the negative and strengthen positive results of these mutual effects are based on
their nature and extent. The innovative participatory approach taken by the project would
enable each of these investments to be designed and negotiated by each community backed
up by PA authorities addressing specific site and population needs.
2.    Sources of Analysis. Each state provided analyses of the social impacts
anticipated for their ecodevelopment program and of the strategy they plan to adopt to
ensure that vulnerable groups will be full participants in decision-making and benefits
under the project. In addition, independent consultants are conducting more detailed social
assessments. This document provides a framework for incorporating these state analyses
based on data provided during project preparation and appraisal. It starts from an
identification of the major stakeholder groups involved, and among these stakeholders, the
tribals, women, and poor who are most socially vulnerable. Next, a summary analysis of
stakeholder interaction with the PA demonstrates priority areas for project investment on
the basis of greatest interaction between land and people, paying special attention to
vulnerable groups. The assessment of potential investments that follows is related to the
project's objectives for improving the effects of interactions between PAs and people, as
outlined in the Indicative Plan. An overview of likely impacts on tribals, poor, and women
is presented together with indicative project strategies for addressing these concerns.
Finally, other key social issues in determining project success are identified and discussed.
Stakeholders in Project Sites
3.    Variety. The multiple uses of PA resources and the long history of human
habitation in forest areas are reflected in the variety and numbers of stakeholders found in
the project sites, and typically in most PAs throughout India (see Table 1). Stakeholders
can be found in the form of human settlements within the PA boundaries, government
agencies operating in and around the PA, private enterprises using PA resources, local
villagers in the periphery of PAs, and tourists and pilgrims visiting the PAs.
4.    Settlements. There is a long history of habitation within PA boundaries although
some stakeholders whose traditional livelihoods are highly dependent on access to forest
resources, have been led by curtailed access to pursue employment outside the PA.
Nevertheless, some tribal groups collecting NTFP and graziers such as the Maldharis in
Gir remain. Similar long histories of habitation are also found with revenue villages, often
comprised of cultivators residing in enclaves that have been legally excluded from national
park and sanctuary boundaries (e.g., Palamau). Equally well established in PAs are cultural
sites and their support staff who serve large numbers of pilgrims (e.g., Gir and Periyar).



256                             Annex 18
More recent settlements, mainly within this century, are forest villages found in two of the
seven sites. Forest villages were created to provide a supply of labor for commercial forest
management, but such job opportunities have also declined with the designation of forest
areas as PAs.
5.    Forest Department. The key government stakeholder continues to be the Forest
Department with the Wildlife division primarily responsible for PAs, and the Territorial
division operating in much of the periphery. Other government agencies are also important
and powerful stakeholders in PAs with interests in mining, hydropower generation,
irrigation, fisheries, roads, and tourism. Within this set of interests, agencies concerned
with water resources are the most common across PAs.
6.    Commercial Interests. Private and public commercial interests are also
stakeholders. For example, a monoculture plantation has been established for paper
production in Periyar Sanctuary. In the periphery of some PAs, large-scale commercial
cash crop enterprises place demands on natural resources for both processing and its labor
force (Buxa and Nagarhole), but can provide income sources for PA residents (Periyar and
Nagarhole). The ability of government agencies and private interests to act on their
commercial interests comes not only from power vested by the state, but also from the
support of peripheral PA populations wanting irrigation, transport, employment, etc. and
the Wildlife Act (1972), which permits certain extractive processes in sanctuaries.
7.    Periphery. Stakeholders on the periphery of PAs, although generally less
dependent on PA resources, still derive substantial income from PAs, which also serve as
important reserves of resources in times of scarcity. For many peripheral villages, PAs are
important sources of grazing, fodder, and fuelwood. These populations also derive
significant supplemental income from the collection and sale of NTFP, employment in
commercial forestry operations, and small-scale industries such as furniture production
and fisheries. However, with the designation of PAs, access to these resources and
opportunities is decreasing, resulting in illegal use of PA resources and encroachment.
Transitory stakeholders within PAs include migratory pastoralists found in Ranthambhore.
8.    Tourists and pilgrims. Although the most transitory of the stakeholders, tourists
and pilgrims nonetheless, constitute a large influential group in PAs, with services
provided by more permanent stakeholders such as state tourism departments, private
hotels, and temple complexes. In all the sites the majority of tourists are Indians. The large
numbers of pilgrims reflect the importance of PAs as sites of cultural and religious
significance.
9.    Researchers. Most of the sites have been or continue to be the subject of various
types of research by individuals and groups belonging to both NGOs and government.
This group of stakeholders has been characterized by varying degrees of success in
influencing policy. The variability is in part a function of the low priority given to wildlife
research in the forest departments and the even lower emphasis on socioeconomic topics.
Social and economic issues have, however, generated another important group of
stakeholders. These are primarily national and local NGOs, with opportunities to initiate
activities in and around PAs, and influence PA policies toward participation in
management and the welfare of indigenous tribal groups.



Table 1: Project Stakeholders by Protected Area
Stakeholders             BUXa  j GIR| NAGarhole                    PALamau         PENch         f PERiyar       1 RANthamb
Inside PA                        _
People in Forest         15,600    4,500           7,110           630                             3,900
Settlements
Grazier Settlements                2,600                                                                           1210
Revenue Enclaves                                                   39,000          12,000                          3,067
Temple complexes                  Ipresent                                                         present         present
Forest Department        present   present         present         present         present         present         present
Other Govt. Agencies &    Mining   PWD,            Tourism,        North Koel      Fisheries, HEP   Tourism, Pulp,
Industrial                         Irrigation      PWD, Elect.    HEP                              Irrigation     _
I-'
D0



Table 1 continued - Project Stakeholders by Protected Area
Stakeholders                BUXa           GIR       T NAGarhole   PALamau    PENch            PERiyar   RANthamb.
Outside PA
Peripheral Revenue Villages    20,400      65,000      63,000        36,000        36,000      58,000      60,000
Migratory Graziers                                                                                         present
Commercial & Industrial      Tea Estates,              Tea Estates                 Fisheries
Wood, NTFP
Water Use Agencies                         Irrigation   Irrigation   Hydro/irrig.             Irrigation
Visitors - Tourists          present       present     present       present       present    present      present
Visitors - Pilgrims          present       present                                             present     present
Smugglers/Poachers                                     present       present                   present     present
Ritual Hunters                                                                                                                                    oo
NGOs                                       present     present       present                   present     present
Researchers                                present     present                                 present     present
0-



259                             Annex 18
Tnbals, Women, and Marginalized Groups
10.   Population. All seven project sites have populations of Scheduled Tribes and
Castes (see Table 2). The accuracy of data on the distribution of these groups is highly
variable, reflecting the variety of sources. Available data suggests that approximately 55
percent of the project population in seven sites belongs to Scheduled Castes and
Scheduled Tribes. In five of the sites (Buxa, Palamau, Pench, Periyar and Ranthambhore)
almost half or over half the project population belong to Scheduled Castes and Tribe. In
all sites, except Gir, the percentage of Scheduled Tribes in the project populations is
greater than that found across the respective states. This in part reflects the many tribes
basing their livelihoods on forest ecosystems.
11.   Tribals. A variety of tribal groups reside in and around the project sites; at least
32 Scheduled Tribes have been identified (Table 3). Although they pursue a range of
livelihood strategies, tribals in general have cultural, social, and economic systems closely
linked to their environments (often forest areas), and consequently have accumulated
extensive indigenous knowledge about ecosystems. Unfortunately, within PAs, tribals
have received little attention, and there is limited ethnographic information on their history
and cultural links with natural environments.
12.   PA Residents. Where there is habitation within PA boundaries, the population
generally belongs to scheduled tribes. Many of these PA residents have traditionally been
forest-dwellers highly dependent on forest resources. In Nagarhole, for example, the tribal
groups of Jenu-Kurbas (honey-gatherers), Betta-Kurbas, Hakki-Pikki (bird-trappers) and
Yeravas (swamp and paddy cultivators), have a long history of livelihoods based on NTFP
collection, hunting, and forest cultivation. Tribals with similar histories are found in
Periyar (Mannans and Paliyans). In central India, forest villages are typically inhabited by
tribals who have provided labor to forest departments, intercropped forest plantations and
collected NTFP and cultivating the land by inter-cropping. With the designation of forest
areas as PAs, access to forest resources and the demand for labor have dramatically
decreased. Tribals are therefore becoming integrated, with varying degrees of success, into
the larger commercial economy as they pursue supplemental and alternate incomes. Some,
such as the Mannans in Periyar, have had problems of seasonal poverty because of their
inability to manage large influxes of income from the periodic sale of cash crops. There are
a number of state and central government schemes to support tribal development including
departments of tribal welfare and the Jawahar Rojagar Yogana (JRY).
13.   Scheduled Castes. Another key group of vulnerable stakeholders in project sites
includes scheduled castes and poor people with limited ability to generate income. It is
difficult to generalize about states of poverty among scheduled castes, since there is
considerable variation in access to and ownership of resources. Some castes pursue
particular livelihoods such as blacksmith, tailor that can provide more than a subsistence
income. However, as a group they are socially marginalized, which limits their ability to
improve livelihoods without the benefit of the variety of government programs specifically
developed to support them. The category of poor people would typically include, in
addition to scheduled castes, the landless, sharecroppers, and marginal cultivators for
whom wage labor is an important source of income. Daily wages and benefits vary



260                                 Annex 18
considerably across the states; the highest was found in Kerala (over Rs 50), while in
Madhya Pradesh daily rates were Rs 10-12. Again a variety of government programs
exists to assist these groups; The programs are usually coordinated through local district
rural development agencies (DRDA).
14.    Women. As a group women are, perhaps, the most marginalized and vulnerable of
stakeholders in the project sites, particularly those of the scheduled tribes and castes.
Women are, for the most part, primary collectors of fuelwood, fodder, and NTFP for both
subsistence and supplemental income but are marginal participants in decisions governing
the management of these resources. They are significant contributors to the household
economy through agricultural wages and off-farm labor particularly in areas where male
labor has moved out. Generally, women have less access to education than men, which
limits their ability to participate in alternate income generation initiatives. Cultural
restrictions, especially in Gir and Ranthambhore in the north and west of the country,
further impede full and active participation by women in local economies and civic
institutions.
Table 2: Distribution of Scheduled Tribes and Castes in Project Areas
BUX    GIR    NAG        PAL    PEN        PER      RAN        Total
2
Scheduled Tribes and Indigenous Pastoralists                                            l
Population      15,700   2,800   17,500 l 55,600   23,000   15,500    36,500    166,600
Percentage of     44%      4%      25%      74%      48%      25%       57%       39%)
project
participants                           _                                                l
% ST in State      7%     19%       3%       9%      28%       1%       15%
Scheduled Castes                                                                        l
Population      13,000   7,500    7,000   11,000    4,000   15,500     8,300     66,300
Percentage of     36%     10%      10%      15%       8%      25%       13%        13%
project
participants                                          _
% SC in State     26%      7%      27%      15%      15%      11%       18%
Pop.           I__  _    _ _ _   _ _  _   _ _ _    _ _ _    _ _ _    _ _ _ _
Scheduled Tribes, Indigenous Pastoralists and Scheduled Castes
Total ST and    28,700  10,300   24,500   66,600   27,000   31,000    44,800    232,900
C pop.                                                                       I
%of project      79%      14%      35%     89%      54%      50%        70%        55%
participants  l        l       l        l        l        l _ |____
Source: GOI & State Preparation Documents from 1981 & 1991 Census. All figures are estimates.
2
Includes 14,000 indigenous pastoralists in Ranthambhore who are not Scheduled Tribes.



261                                 Annex 18
Table 3: Distribution of Tribal Groups across Project Sites
Site     Tribal     Livelihood Strategies         Settlement Type            Number  Number
Group                                                              inside    outside
._____                       PA        PA
Buxa     Mech       Inside PA- Cultivation, forestry  Inside PA - Forest Villages,   1,240
works, cattle rearing        Fixed demand Holdings
Outside PA- Cultivation, cattle   Outside PA -Revenue             4,350
rearing                      Villages
Rava       Inside PA- Cultivation, forestry                        2,620
works, cattle-rearing, NTFP
collection, fishing
Outside PA- Cultivation, cattle-                                  2,250
rearing, weaving
Garo      Inside PA- Cultivation, forestry                         280
works, cattle-rearing
Outside PA- Cultivation, cattle-                                  450
rearing, cane & bamboo
handicrafts
Santal     Inside PA- Cultivation, cattle-                         450
rearing, forestry works
Outside PA- Cultivation, cattle-                                  1,350
rearing
Oraon      Inside PA- cultivation, cattle-                         680
rearing, forestry works, NTFP
collection
Outside PA- Cultivation, cattle-                                  900
rearing
Bhutia    Inside PA- Cultivation, forestry                         1,110
works, orange orchards, cattle-
rearing, pig-rearing
TOTAL                               6,380      9,300
Gir      Siddis     Inside PA- Cultivation, forestry  Forest Village        240       none
Maldharis  works
Inside PA - Cattle rearing,  Settlements with grazing   2,540     none
cultivation                  rights
Outside PA - Cattle-rearing,  Revenue settlements
cultivation
TOTAL                               2,780
Nagar-  Jenu        Inside PA - Wage labor, NTFP   Inside PA - Tribal
hole     Kurba,    collection, cultivation, forestry   settlements
Betta      works
Kurba,
Hakki-
Pikki,
Yeravas
TOTAL                               7,000     10,500



262                                Annex 18
Site     Tribal    Livelihood Strategies        Settlement Type            Number  Number
Group                                                            inside    outside
PA       PA
Palamau  Oraon,   Inside PA- Cultivation, forestry  Inside PA- Forest Villages    630
Munda,   works, migratory labor, sale of   (in intended NP), Revenue
Kherwar, firewood                      enclaves
Chero
Outside PA-Cultivation, wage    Outside PA- Revenue    27,500    24,700
labor                        villages
Korwa,   Occupations as above          As above                  1,480     1,300
Kisan,
Lahar,
Asur,
Birjia,
Birhor,
Parahiya
TOTAL                                29,600    26,000
Pench    Gond      Inside and Outside PA -      Revenue villages           6,000    23,000
Cultivation, cattle-rearing, wage
labor, forestry works
Periyar   Mannan  Inside PA - Fishing, cultivation,  Inside PA - Tribal    806
NTFP collection, wage labor  settlements
Palliyan   Inside PA - Firewood collection,  Outside PA -        379
NTFP collection, cultivation
Urali    Inside PA - Cash crops,                                 174
cultivation, firewood collection,
wage labor
Mala      Inside PA - Cash crops,                                620
Arayan   cultivation, NTFP collection
Outside PA - Cultivation, cash
Malaipan  crops
-daram    Inside PA - NTFP collection                            37
Outside PA - NTFP collection
TOTAL                               2,016     13,500
Ran-     Meena    Outside PA - Cultivation      Outside PA - Revenue                22,500
tham-                                           Villages
bhore              Inside/Outside PA - pastoralism,                        1,000     13,000
some agriculture
TOTAL                              1,000     35,500
TOTAL                                                  54,777    117,823



263                              Annex 18
People - Protected Area Interactions
15.   Stakeholder Use of PAs. The major types of interaction between people and
parks are identified by PA in Table 4. The first seven interactions deal with stakeholder
use of PA resources for grazing, energy, income, cultural, pharmaceutical, food, and
cultural purposes. These uses can seriously affect biodiversity conservation; they can
reduce food and habitat for wild fauna, reduce plant regeneration, disturb the dynamics of
ecosystems, and cause the loss of critical species through over-harvesting, through the
introduction of exotic species, and through excess human waste. However, relatively
benign and even positive interactions can also exist when the level of resource use is low
or well managed; selective grazing, grass cutting, fuelwood harvesting or fires can
maintain habitat for herbivores and species requiring open canopy, bushy, or disturbed
conditions.
16.   Wildlife Damage. The last three areas of interaction identified on Table 4 concern
wildlife damage to cultivated crops, domestic livestock, and human life and limb---the
impact of the PA's resources on people. People ,in and around most PAs,, are providing
wildlife with as much as 35 percent of their food from private plant and animal resources.
In Gir National Park, approximately that amount of the Asiatic lion's food has been
documented as consisting of domestic cattle. Elsewhere, many villagers complain of a
similar percentage of their crop lost to wild herbivores, wild boar, monkeys, porcupines,
and other wildlife. An estimated 100 people a year are killed by tiger, elephant, and lion in
the project's seven sites, and many more are severely injured. Livestock loss and human
injury is partially compensated, but crop loss is generally uncompensated. The most
common complaint about PAs is: "You don't allow us to graze our animals on your land,
but you allow your animals to eat our fields and livestock."
17.   Cultural Resources. PA - people interactions also include cultural resources
established within park and sanctuary boundaries. Major temples in some sites are revered
and visited by people throughout the nation; smaller temples have regional importance,
and small shrines and sacred sites are important to the cultural heritage of local residents.
In addition, many tribal communities have retained strong cultural ties to forest-dwelling
and the access to specific plants and animals for ritual and social purposes. Appreciation of
natural heritage is also assuming increasing cultural importance for domestic and
international visitors. Along with the increasing need to manage environmental impacts
from these visitors and pilgrims there is also the potential for increasing local financial
benefits from their activities (see Working Paper on Ecotourism listed with other working
papers in Annex 22).
18.   Intensity. As shown in Table 4, the intensity of interaction differs considerably
between project sites. Wildlife crop depredation, grazing, and fuelwood collection are the
areas of greatest mutual impact throughout all project areas, with some significant
exceptions. Among the project sites, Ranthambhore appears to have the greatest intensity
of interaction across many different fronts, followed by Gir and Periyar. With over 30
million pilgrims and 250,000 tourists, Periyar is also the site of greatest visitor impact.



264                             Annex 18
19.   Prevention of Stakeholder Uses. The establishment of PAs and prevention of
traditional stakeholder use can have significant negative impacts on different PA resource
users. Those traditionally highly dependent on the resources of the PA for their livelihood
have had their previous economic strategies severely disrupted by the new restrictions. As
shown in Table 5, these impacts are most significant for current PA residents, particularly
the mostly tribal populations without cultivable resources; but are also significant for
revenue viliage dwellers and migrant graziers on the periphery. Landless households and
women who depend on PA resources for both subsistence and income supplements are the
peripheral residents most affected by PA restrictions. During the project period, the most
affected groups within the PAs are more likely to opt for voluntary relocation.
20.   Decrease in Employment. In addition to reducing access to resources
establishment of the PA has often cut down employment in forestry operations that have
been curtailed or stopped. The impact of this reduction is most severe for forest
settlements that were established by the Forest Department precisely to provide accessible
labor for forestry operations, and for tribal settlements previously relocated within the PA.
21.   Quality of Interactions. The quality of interaction between the PA authorities
who regulate resource use and the various stakeholders with interests in the resource is an
important element in the people-park relationship and a critical variable in project success.
As agents of continuing restrictions on resource use, the PA authorities have generally had
antagonistic relationships with most stakeholding groups. Changing the quality of this
interaction is an important project objective.



265                               Annex 18
Table 4: Interactions by Project Area
With Estimated Intensity of Interaction
Interaction         BUX    GIR    NAG   PAL    PEN    PER    RAN
Grazing/lopping
livestock use
Fuelwood collection &   *
sale__c                                                       _ _
Poaching/Timber
Smuggling
Visitor use & environ-  *                                          -
mental impacts
NTFP use & collection  j    j *             U       I      I
Industrial land                                    -       I       I
or water use
Cultural use & ritual
hunting
Reduction in forestry        U *      _                    -
employment
Wildlife crop                   -                  -        -
depredation                                                               l
Wildlife livestock
damage                                                                    l
Human injury &-
death               ..       *                     _        _____* _
Bux = Buxa                        = very low, occasional
Gir = Gir
Nag = Nagarhole                   = low, infrequent
Pal = Palamau
Pen = Pench                       = medium, fairly frequent
Per  Periyar
Ran = Ranthambhore                = high, frequent
= very high, very frequent



Table 5: Interactions by Stakeholder Gro  p
Stakeholders              Graz-      Fuel-      Poach      Visitor    NTFP   | Indus-    Cul-           Labor    Crop          Cows       Life
ing        wood       Smugl                            trial       tural    J           | loss     [loss      | loss
Inside PA
Forest Settlements -                                                                                                 _
mixed use                                                                                                                                          l
Grazier Settlements        _                   I               .       I                      U         I                            ._
Revenue Enclaves         i            U         I           s                                                                               u
Temple complexes         J           I                      *__
[| Forest Department       *___ _                            * _ _ _ __ _ _ _                  _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __                     _ __  i     .
! Other Govt. Agencies &
i Industrial
Outside PA
Landless, non-grazing                                                   _ -                    -          -                                 -
collectors/laborers
Other People from                                                                                                  -
Peripheral Revenue
Villages
Migratory Graziers         _          J         |           *         |                                                                   P
Commercial & Industrial                                                                      _                                 _         _
Water Use Agencies                   -                                _     _ _              _
Visitors - Tourists                   .                                                                  U                               _ _*
Visitors - Pilgrims                                                                                    in _        _-
Smugglers/Poachers         :                               _         *                      _
Ritual Hunters                                       .    _            _
~N G O s                      _ _  _  _  _  _  _      _  _  _   _  _  _     _   _  _  _  _  _                 _  _   __               _  _
Researchers                                                             .
Key:
= very low, occasional
low, infrequent
*       = medium, fairly frequent                                                                                                                                    X
= high, frequent
_       = very high, very frequent                                                                                                                                   00



267                         Annex 18
Investment Assessment
22.   Indicative Investments. The specific village ecodevelopment investments cannot
be determined ahead of the ongoing microplanning process in which local communities
and PA authorities arrive at agreed annual investment programs. However, on the basis of
some participatory rural appraisal (PRA) planning) for each site the indicative planning
process has identified the most likely investments to be selected. In Table 6, proposed
indicative investments have been categorized according to the type and objectives of
mutual interaction they are designed to address.
23.   Incentives. The specific objectives are to decrease threats to the PA's biodiversity
by providing incentives for alternative behaviors. These incentives include a combination
of the following:
(a)   Direct substitutes for particular PA resources
(b)   Alternative sources of income for a particular PA resource use
(c)   Village projects and conservation education to increased understanding and
cooperation in biodiversity conservation by generating good will.
24.   Each of these sets of proposed investments is related to the goal of conserving
biodiversity; but the direct linkage -- especially for (b) and (c)-- will depend on specific
agreements on behavior change negotiated during the microplanning process (see Annex
8).
25.   Social Impacts. The large menu of indicative investments will have varying
degrees of linkage to biodiversity conservation, so the specific social impacts, especially
on vulnerable groups, will vary widely by investment and the manner in which it is
implemented (see below). Each proposed investment has an accompanying set of issues
that will undergo site and community-specific feasibility analysis during the microplanning
process (see Annex 8). Table 6, notes some observations on these issues under the
heading of "Feasibility Comments". In general, joint forest and PA management are likely
to provide the most direct linkage and most positive social impact if carried out through
the participatory approach now being developed elsewhere in India. Soil and water
conservation structures, unless sought by communities for direct benefits, seldom attract
community interest, and thus may not provide strong motivation for behavior change.
Alternative income sources, if directly linked to conservation through village agreements
and targeted to resource users, can provide long-term solutions to overuse of PA
resources. However, many of these income-generating projects require technical expertise
and supporting investments with which forest departments have little experience and that
are unlikely to be available from existing sources
26.   Issues. A wide variety of technical and social issues is associated with each of the
possible investments. The project thus embodies a learning process for all key actors: the
forest department, the village communities, and the supporting NGOs. The GOI and
NGOs involved on a country-wide basis will promote opportunities for PAs to share
knowledge; thus providing for continuous monitoring and helping PAs avoid repeating
each others' mistakes.



268                              Annex 18
Table 6: Proposed Indicative Investments
Interaction & Objectives         Indicative Investments            Feasibility Comments
Grazing/Aopping livestock use    -- tree & fodder plantations      FD plantations high cost option
-- reduce uncontrolled grazing   -- pasture regeneration           with unproven sustainability. High
-- provide non-PA fodder sources    --joint-forest management      potential for PA grass cutting
arrangements. Cattle
-- promote stall feeding of      -- grass & fodder tree nurseries  improvement/stall feeding proven
improved cattle                  -- cattle breed improvement       strategy, but often available from
-- livestock water provision     DRD funds.
Fuelwood collection & sale       -- tree plantations               Joint forest management & natural
-- reduce uncontrolled collection  -- forest regeneration          regeneration provide greatest
.             . .                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~efficiency & impact compared to
-- provide non-PA fuelwood       --joint forest management            plataions. Energy
sources ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ .                                    FD plantations. Energy
sources                          -- tree nurseries                 conservation technologies often
-- introduce energy conservation  -- provide solar cookers, improved    available from DRD funds.
-- provide alternative income    stoves, biogas plants, windmills,
crematoria
Poaching/Timber Smuggling        -- anti-poaching squads           Combination of improved PA
-- stop/reduce poaching          -- community protection           enforcement & greater community
.   .                  .               ~~~~~~~~~~~~cooperation promising if genuine
-- stop/reduce timber smuggling  -- better roads, vehicles &       participaton mobilized.
-- stop illegal drug cultivation  communications
-- better PA-people relations    -- village support (see below)
Visitor use & environmental      -- waste management               Comprehensive, participatory
impacts                          -- visitor infrastructure         ecotourism strategies essential
-- manage environmental impacts   -- conservation education        prerequisite for implementing
of visitors                                                        environmental management &
of.visitors                    -- control thoroughfare use       sustainable local revenue
-- increase local revenue
-- increase localrevene-- ecotourism management                    generation.
generation                       strategies & policies (potential  --
-- increase public support       not currently in plan)
-- reduce wildlife disturbance
NTFP use & collection            -- cultivate selected NTFP outside    Need for studies to identify
-- reduce unsustainable collection    PA                           feasibility of NTFP cultivation as
-- cultivate non-PA sources      -- research sustainability of     well as potenhal for continuing
.provide alteative incomes     selected NTFP use                 some existing collection.
-- income generation (see below)
Industrial land or water use     -- phase out current leases where  Problematic issues in Periyar (pulp
(bamboo, timber, pulp, dolomite,    possible through negotiation   plantation), Nagarhole (teak
quarrying, dams)                 -- stop further development       plantation), Palamau (Kutku dam)
need policy level attention.
-- reduce current use levels
-- manage continuing uses
Cultural use & ritual hunting    -- dialogue with temple           Considerable potential for seeking
-- manage cultural uses          complexes and tribals             participatory solutions which
voluntary cessation of hunting                     conserve cultural heritage of both
-- voluntary cessationofhuntingtemples & tribals.



269                             Annex 18
Table 6: Continued
Interaction & Objectives        Indicative Investments          Feasibility Comments
Reduction in forestry employment   -- income generation: duckery,  Most proposed income generation
-- develop alternative incomes  piggery, ironsmithy, poultry,  already available from other
apiculture, fish, mushroom,     agencies to limited extent.
-- target existing employment to  handicraft, diamond cutting, food    Relationship to project objective
project stakeholders            processing, recycling units, sewing,  only indirect. Feasibility analysis
marketing                       complicated. Proposed large-scale
-- agriculture improvement & soil  investments in soil & water
and water conservation: water   conservation only indirectly related
tarksbundscheck dams, gy  to project objectives & often already
tanks, bunds, heculture         available. Targeting contracting
plugs, ponds, horticulture  could bring immediate benefits.
-- target contracting arrangements
Wildlife crop depredation       -- improve PA habitat           Largest PA impact on people. Joint,
-- decrease loss              -- fencing/trenches             participatory investments have high
potential of improving PA-people
-- improve PA-people relations  -- community patrolling         relations. Village support programs
village support: drinking water    need to be linked to objectives
-- village support: drinking water,
roads, health, & family welfare
programs
Wildlife livestock damage       -- increase natural prey        Comparative study of most effective
-- decrease loss              -- fencing/trenches             prevention & compensating
mechanisms could improve
-- provide compensation         -- decrease livestock in PA     investment.
-- village support (see above)
Human iniurv & death            -- decrease humans in PA        Most emotive issue in project.
S   . .               .                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mechanisms for immnediate
-- decrease incidence           -- fencing/trenches             cpnsatinunede
compensation & support needed
-- provide compensation         -- village support (see above)
Impacts on Tribals, Poor, and Women
27.    Benefits. By its focus on reducing negative interaction between people and PAs,
the project design anticipates benefits from development and support of livelihood
strategies less dependent on PA resources. Benefits for tribals, women, and other
marginalized groups are likely to derive from employment in a variety of activities,
operation of micro-enterprises (poultry, handicrafts, etc.), expenditure reduction through
efficient use of natural resources (e.g., energy conservation with improved stoves), and
increased crop and livestock production (see Tables 7 & 8). Further benefits may include
improved infrastructure and such facilities as drinking water. By addressing areas of
greatest friction between PA and stakeholders (see Table 6) the project should also
improve relationships between stakeholders, particularly between PA officials and local
people.
28.    Negative Effects of Village Ecodevelopment. Village ecodevelopment activities
are, however, equally likely to generate negative effects on both biodiversity conservation



270                          Annex 18
and the socioeconomic condition of those concerned. Livelihood strategies that reduce
dependency on forest resources will inevitably affect the extent and type of indigenous
knowledge retained and used by those groups having close cultural links with forest
ecosystems. For example, forestry plantations will not provide the equivalent variety of
species found in forest areas and widely used for food and for income generation and
medicinal purposes by tribals and women (Ranthambhore Foundation, 1994). Similarly,
NTFP cultivation may concentrate on a few species of commercial value rather than a
variety serving a range of household needs.
29.   Effects of Park Management on Marginal Groups. Marginal groups are also
likely to be affected by the range of park management activities proposed in the project.
Survey and demarcation activities could result in either including or excluding tribal
settlements from PA boundaries and generating questions for future relocation policies.
Other activities such as the construction of habitat management structures (e.g., watch-
towers) may curtail informal access to forest resources as policing becomes more
effective. Habitat enrichment activities may similarly restrict access to grazing and NTFP
as PA authorities concentrate on managing forest areas for increased biodiversity.
30.   Effects of Park Management on Women. Where the sale of firewood has been
an important source of income (Periyar, Ranthambhore), especially for women, energy
conservation may result in decreased income and some loss of financial independence.
Livestock improvement through better breeds and stall-feeding may increase the workload
for fodder-collectors, often women, when previously animals were left to graze. Similarly,
more intensive crop production such as the cultivation of cash crops may immediately
increase workloads for cultivators, who again are likely to be women. Women may also
face increased workloads and responsibilities across the range of investments if options are
decided without their active participation.
31.   Poor Access to Benefits. There are certain categories of investments that are
unlikely to produce benefits for some groups. Investments in agricultural improvements
(including livestock) and in soil and water conservation have little to offer marginal and
other types of cultivators, and even less to offer the landless. Cultivators such as those in
forest villages may be unwilling or even unable to invest in land improvement given their
uncertain land tenure arrangements (e.g., leases on which credit is unavailable as in Gir,
Buxa, Nagarhole, and Periyar). Under such circumstances landowners with larger, secure
holdings may accumulate any benefits and force those with less resources into more
marginal and subsistence livelihoods. For PA residents, particularly tribals, alternate
sources of natural resources (for example, plantations, and NTFP cultivation) are not
possible given the terms of the Wildlife Act and the conversion of declared sanctuaries
into notified national parks.
32.   Local Financial Management Capability. Alternate income generation and
increased employment may create problems for groups, such as tribal PA residents who
have little education and experience with financial management, as they join the larger
commercial economy. Tribals in Periyar experience periods of poverty during the year,
despite reasonable annual incomes, due to an inability to manage large cash influxes from
cash crops. Current tourism strategies may generate hostile reactions from local people,



271                         Annex 18
since at present they receive little benefit from the increasing numbers of visitors, and
would be unlikely to receive significantly more in the future unless policies change.
33.   Targeting. Some PA authorities from the project sites have considered how to
address specifically the needs and problems of vulnerable groups such as tribals, women,
and the poor. On the basis of PRA findings during project preparation, indicative project
investments are set to cover particular activities for target groups, general activities more
likely to be taken up by vulnerable groups, and subsidies. Examples of the first can be
found in Buxa where women have been tentatively targeted for participation in mushroom
cultivation (120 women), cottage industries (270) bee-keeping, farm forestry (160 landless
and poor women) and intercropping (160). In Palamau, sewing (100) and poultry rearing
(250) have specific female target populations, while Nagarhole has identified village forest
nurseries (125) for female participation. Tribal populations have been targeted with pig-
rearing in Nagarhole and Palamau, NTFP production and sale in Buxa, and fishing in
Periyar. In Palamau indicative investments in smithy activities and carpentry are intended
to be of direct benefit to scheduled castes. All the indicative ecodevelopment plans have
outlined the number of person-days of employment anticipated directly from possible
investments, but there is no indication of future employment resulting from activities such
as successful micro-enterprises and expanded agricultural production.
34.   Self Targeting. General activities more likely to be taken up by vulnerable groups
fall under a strategy of self-targeting. Typically, these activities include the generation of
wage labor and other employment opportunities that are primarily taken up by the poor
and landless. An example of self-targeting would be the collection and processing of low
value NTFPs that would be taken up by low income and marginal groups; an example of
this would be the collection and preparation of sal-leaf plates, which is primarily carried
out by women.
35.   Subsidies cover various investment categories. In Buxa saplings are intended to be
sold at 50 percent subsidy to village members of forest protection and ecodevelopment
committees. Cattle improvement in Palamau incorporates a subsidy of 25 percent when
inferior cattle are exchanged for improved animals. In many existing rural development
programs, these subsidies are further adjusted according to social and economic status;
For example, scheduled castes and tribes and households below the poverty line receive
significantly greater subsidies than less vulnerable groups.



Table 7: Project Impacts on Women
Village              Expected Benefits                Possible Negative Impacts               Measures to ensure   Monitoring
Ecodevelopment                                                                                benefits & mitigate   mechanism
Investment                                                                                    negative impacts
Forestry Plantations    Employment; fuel, fodder, &   Decreased income from sale of firewood;  Participatory      Monitoring plan to
intercrops                      decreased diversity of NTFP available to  microplanning     include locally-
meet household needs and for sale; loss of   including feasibility  identified measures
indigenous knowledge                   analyses; JFM        of performance and
policies; mixed     procedures, NGO
plantations         participation and
EDC/FPC review
meetings; research
Cattle Improvement    Increased income                Increased time for fodder collection    Microplanning;            -do-
contact with female
FD staff; effective
participation in
decision-making
Energy Conservation    Decreased expenditure on fuel-  Decreased income from fuelwood sales   Alternate income           -do-
wood; decreased collection time.                                        activities                 ____
Ecotourism (in present  Negligible; some possible     Resentment toward government and private   Govt. orders on         -do-
form)                employment opportunities .       agencies capturing economic benefits;   sharing of entry fees;
(prostitution in Periyar?)             microplanning, ;
targeting of training
and employment
NTFP Cultivation     Income; employment               Capture of benefits by other groups/    Microplanning;            -do-
(outside PA)                                          entrepreneurs; loss in income due to    research
decreased diversity products for sale as
efforts concentrate on fewer products.
OD



Table 7 continued: Project Impacts on Women
Investment            Expected Benefits                Possible Negative Impacts                Measures             Monitoring
Alternate Incomes     Increased incomes; employment    Marginal benefits without culturally     Microplanning;              -do
opportunities                    appropriate choice of options and training    contact with female
FD staff;
participation in
decision-making;
training
Agricultural          Increased income; increased food    Increased workload due to             Microplanning                -do-
Improvement           supplies                         intensification/diversification of crops
Soil & Water          Increased yields; employment     Increased workload; options identified by  Effective                   -do-
Conservation          opportunities                    groups other than women                  participation in
decision-making
Voluntary Relocation    Access to irrigated land, housing  Terms of relocation not met; loss of income   Participatory       -do
and other facilities; increased  and capital resources; decreased access to    operational plans;-
income                           resources (e.g. forests); loss of indigenous    cultural continuity
knowledge; cultural isolation; increased  activities; transition
workload                                support; NGO
participation
Reduction in Wildlife   Increased yields; increased income;  Time spent in patrolling           Provision of                  -do
Damage                improved relations with Forest                                            equipment; joint
Dept.; employment                                                         patrols with FD
Park Management
Investments
Survey & Demarcation  Employment; exclusion of land    Loss of cultivable land; decreased access to    Govt. orders on       -do-
from PA                          forest land                              resource-sharing
Habitat management    Employment; resource-sharing     Decreased access to forest resources     Govt. orders on              -do-
structures e.g. fire-                                                                           resource-sharing
lines                                                                                                                                             x
Habitat enrichment    Employment; resource-sharing     Reduction of grazing area (buffer zones)  Targeting of                -do-
and access to NTFP                      employment; Govt.
orders



Table 8: Project Impacts on Tribals and Poor
Village              Expected Benefits                Possible Negative Impacts                 Measures to ensure  Monitoring
Ecodevelopment                                                                                  benefits & mitigate   mechanism
Investment                                                                                      negative impacts
Forestry Plantations    Employment; fuel, fodder, &   Loss of income; inability to meet household  Participatory    Monitoring plan to
intercrops                      needs due decreased diversity of products for  microplanning   include locally-
sale; loss of indigenous knowledge; little benefit  including feasibility  identified
to PA residents                           analyses; JFM       measures of
policies; mixed     performance and
plantations        procedures, NGO
participation and
EDC/FPC review
meetings
Cattle Improvement    Increased incomes & yields     Little benefit to tribals with no tradition of  Microplanning;       -do-
keeping milk animals; time spent in fodder  contact with tribal
collection                                FD staff; effective
participation in
decision-making
Energy Conservation    Decreased expenditure on      Decreased income from fuelwood sales       Alternate income          -do-
fuelwood                                                                   activities; JFM-type
Govt. Orders on
resource sharing;
training_
Ecotourism (in present  Employment as guides, otherwise    Resentment toward Forest Dept and other  Govt. orders on       -do-
form)                negligible                       agencies who capture benefits             sharing of entry
fees;
microplanning,;
targeting of training
and employment
NTFP Cultivation     Continued source of income &     Loss of indigenous knowledge as fewer species   Microplanning;      -do-
(outside PA)         employment                       are grown                                 research                                      x
oo



Table 8 continued: Project Impacts on Tribals and Poor
Investment           Expected Benefits                Possible Negative Impacts                  Measures            Monitoring
Alternate Incomes    Increased income; increased      Capture of and subsequent polarization of  Microplanning;             -do
employment                      benefits by other groups; no long-term     contact with tribal
improvement in livelihoods due to inability to    FD staff;
manage cash incomes                       participation in
decision-making;
training
Agricultural         Increased income and food       Little economic benefit for landless; uncertain    Microplanning        -do-
Improvement          supplies due to greater yields;  employment opportunities for landless and
increased employment for landless  poor; negligible benefit for those unable to
and other poor                  invest due to uncertain tenure arrangements
Soil & Water         Increased income and food       Little direct benefit for landless and non-  Effective                  -do-
Conservation         supplies due to greater yields  cultivators; inability of marginal cultivators to   participation in
invest due uncertain tenure arrangements  decision-making
Voluntary relocation    Access to irrigated land, housing    Terms of relocation not met; loss of income and  Participatory  -do
and other facilities; increased  capital resources; decreased access to resources   operational plans;
income                          (e.g. forests); loss of indigenous knowledge;  cultural continuity
cultural isolation.                       activities; transition
support; NGO
participation
Reduction in Wildlife   Increased income due to decreased   Little benefit for landless and non-cultivators    Joint patrols form  -do
Damage               crop and livestock damage;                                                 part of reciprocal
employment in patrols                                               _      agreements
Park Management
Investments
Survey & Demarcation  Employment; exclusion of land   Loss of cultivable land; decreased access to  Govt. orders on         -do-
from PA                         forest land                               resource-sharing
Habitat management    Employment; resource-sharing    Decreased access to forest resources       Govt. orders on            -do-
structures e.g. fire-                                                                           resource-sharing                              D
lines                                                                                                                                         x
Habitat enrichment   Employment; resource-sharing     Reduction of grazing area (buffer zones) and  Target employment;       -do-             x
access to NTFP                            Govt. orders



276                         Annex 18
37.   Microplanning. The tools and processes of microplanning designed to alleviate
potential negative impacts are discussed in more detail in Annex 8. Feasibility analysis
across the range of possibilities for village ecodevelopment investments (Annexes 7 and 8)
will be a critical element in the planning process. To ensure that village ecodevelopment is
participatory and that agreements between parties are indeed reciprocal, tribal groups, the
poor, and women will have to be represented in decision-making structures and assisted by
NGOs in making their voices heard. PA staff at all levels will have to be sensitive to the
range of social issues likely to influence the process. SFDs have been asked to prepare
draft government orders that would address, among other issues, the establishment and
responsibilities of village-level ecodevelopment committees (see Annex 8).
38.   Role of NGOs. NGOs will have a critical role to play in the microplanning and
implementation process. Frequently, NGOs have entered the arena of PA management
through activities to alleviate poverty and improve livelihoods of populations in and
around PAs (e.g. MYRADA in Nagarhole, Peermade in Periyar, AKRSP in Gir and CEE
in Ranthambhore). Their experience and approach will be a necessary addition to the
efforts of PA authorities and bring to the project enhanced social skills and sensitivities.
Furthermore, as non-government institutions, these organizations will enhance the
monitoring and evaluation processes. The project has included funds to contract NGOs
and increase their capacity through training to participate effectively in village
ecodevelopment activities.
39.   Training. Quality training, particularly for vulnerable groups, will be vital to the
success of village ecodevelopment investments since the access of these groups to
education and exposure to large-scale economic forces are limited. This training should
equip such groups with the skills and knowledge needed to operate in new and changing
economic environments. With appropriate microplanning and NGO participation it is more
likely that options are identified and developed that are culturally appropriate and socially
acceptable, and thus more likely to succeed. The project also realizes the value of research
in informing policy on the management of interaction between people and PAs and has
included support for socioeconomic studies.
40.   Employment. There is also considerable opportunity and need to increase
numbers of vulnerable groups employed by PA authorities at all levels. In some states,
forest departments with sufficient commitment have shown that they can change
recruitment policies to ensure that women and tribals are hired as forest guards, rangers,
extension agents, etc. In Periyar, for example, park management activities include the
hiring of tribals and women as conservation assistants. Particularly where distrust is great,
languages different, or gender restrictions high, such recruitment will be critical in bridging
the social distances that currently impede the full participation of women, tribals, and the
poor.
Other Key Social Issues
41.   Overview. As with any complex participatory project, additional important social
issues will be critical to project success at each site. This includes issues related to
community participation and social organization, institutional support for community-



277                         Annex 18
based programs, and any voluntary relocation, land and resource tenure regimes, the
policy environment, etc.
42.   Community Participation. Indigenous forms of social organization, decision-
making and conflict resolution differ substantially between and within different social
groups. For example, some groups interviewed during preappraisal indicated that major
decisions such as relocation, change in grazing patterns, etc. were only made on a group
basis to which every member felt bound. In other cases, households followed more
individualistic decision-making strategies. The inclusion of contract sociologists in the
project should help sensitize PA authorities and NGOs to these social and cultural realities
and assist them in adjusting their PRA and microplanning strategies. Specialized support in
social assessment and participatory planning, serving all seven project sites, would provide
additional guidance.
43.   Voluntary Relocation. In four of the project sites voluntary relocation is likely to
take place during the project period and will have significant impacts on those who are
relocated (see Table 1). These impacts will have economic, social, and cultural dimensions
and will depend heavily on how such relocation is carried out. The project has developed
an agreed policy for voluntary relocation (see Annex 20). PA authorities would develop
participatory relocation plans in response to the wishes of local people and in accordance
with the guidance contained in the Bank's Operational Directive 4.20 and recent GOI
guidelines.
44.   Tenure Within PAs. A wide array of tenure patterns are also found at each site,
particularly for people living within PA boundaries. Some groups of tribal inhabitants
(Nagarhole) do not have any tenure rights recognized by the forest department; some have
annual leasehold rights to limited cultivation (frequently not renewed) but no rights over
forest products (i.e., most forest settlements); some have rights to certain limited non-
timber forest products, but no rights to graze (i.e., tribals in Periyar); some have rights to
residence and grazing, but no rights to NTFP (i.e., Maldharis in Gir); some have rights to
residence, but no rights to any forest produce (i.e., most temple complexes). In many
cases where rights are not recognized, customary usage is still tolerated and even explicitly
allowed (i.e., grazing in parts of Gir and Ranthambhore). In many cases, these rights and
concessions are being progressively diminished as the more flexible sanctuary designations
are replaced by national park notification and enforcement increases.
45.   Tenure Outside PAs. Outside PA boundaries, tenure issues are also varied. Lands
used for community grazing and NTFP collection (especially fuelwood), are variously
under the legal authority of the panchayats, the revenue department, the forest
department, private corporations (e.g. tea estates), or individual households. Frequently,
the usage of these lands and their legal ownership are at variance and overlapping tenure
claims common. Even legal ownership is often a subject of dispute between different
agencies and users. Temporal variations can also occur when private lands change to
common property during fallow seasons of collective grazing. Tenancy and various forms
of resource use by landless households provide an additional dimension to the complicated
tenure patterns.



278                          Annex 18
46.   Security of Tenure. Tenure issues are central to the project since much of its
thrust is to negotiate a further reduction---or acceptance of the already instituted
reduction---in usage of PA resources. To the extent that the microplanning process is able
to build a consensus between each of the stakeholders and tenure claimants, project
investments can be carried out with a reasonable degree of tenurial security. However,
there will be situations in which measures to increase tenurial security will be needed to
maintain the motivation of stakeholders. Such measures would include issuing government
orders on resource use rights; transferring forest settlements to revenue village
administration; standing guarantee for credit collateral; and negotiating agreements for
benefit sharing. To ensure that these tenurial issues are adequately addressed, it will be
important to carry out the planned social science research program .
47.   Participation and Learning. The extent to which these impacts will be positive
will depend on the extent to which the participatory microplanning and implementing
process is really participatory (See Annex 8). In addition, positive outcome will depend on
the adoption of a continuing learning process, involving all project stakeholders through
both formal studies and monitoring; perhaps even more important, it will depend on a
willingness to trust local people and their knowledge and to allow them to learn through
their own failures. The tools to allow local communities to influence the direction of PA
management significantly are built into this project to a far greater degree than normally
found in the forestry or environment sector. Ideally, the ultimate outcome will be largely
up to local communities.



279                                 Annex 19
Annex 19: Indigenous People
Compliance with Bank Operational Directive 4.20
Operational Directive 4.20      Analyses in Annexes That Supplement SAR Main Text
Prerequisites
Full consideration of options    Annex 7: paragraphs 5, 10, 11,16
preferred by affected indigenous  Annex 8 - paragraph 3, 5, 6, 13, 19, 27, 36, 37, Box 2,
people
Anticipate adverse trends likely to    Annex 7: paragraphs 4a, 5b
be induced by project and identify    Annex 8 - paragraphs 5,6,13b, 36,37
mitigation measures
Institutions responsible for     Annex 7: paragraphs 5, 14
interaction with indigenous peoples  Annex 8: paragraphs 2 31l 32, Section G (TORs)
should involve NGOs with expertise                  ,  ,
in matters relating to indigenous  Annex 9: paragraph 15, first TOR
people                           Annex 12: TORs relating to microplanning, social assessment,
and multi-state learning and communication
Annex 18 - Table 8 and paragraphs 26-35, 37
Local patterns of social         Annex 6 - sections on "People" and "Social Concerns" for each PA
organization, religious beliefs, and   Annex 8: paragraphs 13(d), 15, 36-38, 41
resource use should be taken into
account                         Annex 9: paragraphs 15
Annex 10 - paragraphs 10-12, 36-39, 41
Annex 18: paragraphs 25-3 5, 41, Table 8
Production systems should be well   Annex 7: paragraph 5
adapted to the needs and         Annex 8 - paragraphs 3,12-14, 23, 27, 28, 30-37, 41 Boxes I and 2
environment of indigenous people
Annex 18 paragraphs 27-38, Table 8
Avoid dependency and include    Annex 8 paragraphs 13-14, 21-26, 36-37, 42-44, 74
management skills training       Annex 9 paragraphs 9-10, 12-15
Annex 11: TORs on Microplanning Training
Annex 18: paragraphs 36, 38, 39
Adequacy of preparation and     Annex 4
follow-up                        Annex 7: paragraph 8
Annex 8 paragraphs 29, 32. TORs
Annex 11: TORs on Microplanning and Social Assessment
Incremental funding             Annex 5, paragraph 4-10
Annex 8 paragraphs 13 (c). 39, 40



280                                 Annex 19
Elements
Legal framework                 Annex 1: paragraphs 7, 15
Annex 2, paragraph 8
Annex 7: paragraph 4 (a), l l(d), 13
Annex 8 paragraphs 7-10
Annex 18 paragraphs 30, 39-44
Baseline data                   Annex 6 in entirety
Annex 7 - TOR for Mapping
Annex 8: paragraphs 11-12, Box 1
Annex 10: 4, 11-23, 51-54, Tables 1-2
Annex 11: TORs on Social Assessment and Reviews
Annex 18 in entirety
Land tenure                     Annex 7: paragraphs 11, 16, 19(f)
Annex 18: paragraph 12, 31, 43-45
Annex 20
Local participation strategy    Annex 7, paragraph 5, 8(f)
Annex 8 in entirety
Annex 10: paragraphs 20(d), 22(e)
Identification of activities that  Annex 8 in entirety
draws on indigenous knowledge and  Annex 11: TORs on social assessment, microplanning, and
qualified technical support     feasibility
Annex 18, paragraphs -25-26, Tables 6 and 8
Institutional Capacity          Annex 2 in entirety
Annex 7, paragraph 12, 23-28
Annex 8 paragraph 42
Annex 18: paragraph 31-22
Implementation Schedule         Annex 16: chart
Monitoring and Evaluation       Annex 10 in entirety
Annex 16 in entirety
Detailed Cost Estimates and     Detailed project cost estimates (working paper)
Financing Plan



281                            Annex 20
Annex 20: People in the PAs and Voluntary Relocation
1.    Current Situation. All protected areas (PAs) have people living within the PA
boundaries (see Annex 6 Table 2). Most live in areas where human settlement is allowed.
During the past few decades, the creation of the PAs has sometimes caused people living
in the PAs to lose access to resources and precipitated resettlement of tribal people in
forest villages in ways that involved little or no participatory decision-making. The project
itself would not cause further loss of living standards; rather, it would help to address and
ameliorate existing conditions where people have already experienced losses and where,
without the project, people would face very limited and bleak options. At the same time,
population pressures are adversely affecting PA conservation. To address and ameliorate
existing conditions, state forest departments (SFDs) and some PA residents have started
discussions on the possibility of participatory, voluntary relocation. The Project
Preparation Facility supported some prtliminary reviews by NGOs of these discussions.
The discussions and NGO reviews indicate a strong demand for relocation from some
households, but the number of potential participants is not yet clear. Initial impressions
indicate that some 1-4 percent of the 87,000 people living within the PAs would be
interested in participating in resettlement.
2.    Definition of "Voluntary". The project would provide support on an
experimental basis for a participatory process to plan and implement "voluntary
relocation". Relocation under the project would be "voluntary" in the sense that it would
be driven by the wishes of each local household. Planning would take place in the context
of options that would not involve relocation. The project would draw on lessons of best
practice that are outlined in Bank's Operational Directives on Involuntary Resettlement
and Indigenous People. Voluntary relocation does not require strict scheduling because it
is driven by the wishes of local people rather than by an external "event" (which is what
drives involuntary resettlement). Voluntary relocation under the project would not be
timebound; there was no need to prepare a resettlement plan prior to appraisal. During the
project, people may move at different times -- at their own pace. Not all households in a
community may move. In some cases, partial and/or gradual relocation may be subject to
environmental considerations outlined below in paragraph 6. However, the success of the
project does not depend on timebound or complete evacuation of people from PAs.
Indeed a major objective is to foster the cooperation of people who would not be moving.
Voluntary relocation would be consistent with the legal covenant that the project project
would not erode the customary tenure rights of tribals living within the protected areas.
3.    Reasons to Avoid Involuntary Resettlement. Involuntary resettlement would:
(a)   Be unnecessary on ecological grounds, or on other grounds related to
protected area management or project activities during the project period
(b)   Conflict with the project strategy of reducing discord and increasing
collaboration between protected areas and local people
(c)   Risk inadvertent erosion of customary land rights of indigenous people
living within the protected areas



282                            Annex 20
(d)   Conflict with usual Bank practice not to involuntarily resettle tribals from
protected areas.
4.    Relocation Strategy. The project's people-driven, participatory approach to
relocation would provide win-win solutions to problems faced by local people and PAs
and establish a model approach applicable to other PAs throughout India. This strategy
would enable the project to meet the demands of local people who are eager to move.
Relocation would be to lands on the periphery of the PAs, rather than to distant lands and
there would be no involuntary relocation. All relocation planning and implementation
associated with PA management or other project objectives, regardless of financing,
would be consistent with Bank guidelines, and implementation would require prior Bank
approval. The project would help state and national governments to carefully plan and
implement relocation activities so that they do not inadvertently cause long-term hardship,
impoverishment, and environmental damage. It would provide an incentive-based
mechanism to reduce population pressures. The strategy would also support options for
people in the PAs not wishing to relocate.
5.    Documenting Voluntary Nature of Relocation. The microplanning support
teams of PA personnel, collaborating NGOs, and villagers, with the support of relocation
specialists, would facilitate the consultation and decision making on relocation. In these
cases, microplanning would provide an opportunity for local people to consider the
relocation option, and if they wished, to plan the relocation activities. The support teams
would carefully document the participatory planning process and content of local people's
decisions on relocation. For relocation to proceed, this documentation would need to
include unambiguous confirmation that decisions on relocation met the definition of
"voluntary" outlined in paragraph 2 above. Both the independent review and the Bank
review of relocation plans would give close attention to this documentation.
6.    Concerns Involving Gradual and/or Partial Relocation. Forest Departments
have several concerns about the potential risks of gradual and/or partial relocation, e.g.,
enlarged areas of human habitation in the vicinity of the PAs, increased transit of people
between old and new communities, sustainability of groups decisions to relocate, etc. The
consultation process on voluntary relocation would need to consider and address these
concerns wherever they exist. Possible outcomes of such consideration would vary by site
and might include: (i) consensus decisions by communities to move together at one time,
(ii) reciprocal commitments by existing and/or relocated communities that would address
potential adverse impacts on biodiversity (e.g., consolidation of holdings within existing
community), (iii) decisions by PA managers to not support relocation because of potential
adverse impacts, or (iv) development of a relocation package so desirable that it would
have a high likelihood of enticing additional participation in the near future.
7.    Support for Relocation. The funds provided for voluntary relocation would be
additional to standard GOI and state allocations, and would be used to develop
participatory operational plans consistent with GOI and IDA guidelines. They would aid
households in the transitional period, provide investment funds for alternative livelihoods,
provide implementation support services, and support measures fostering cultural
continuity. Because the number of potential participants is not clear, project cost estimates
for relocation are extremely tentative. The project costs for relocation would be subject to



283                             Annex 20
major revision at the mid-project review, after consultation with potential participants
(consistent with Bank standards) has taken place.
8.    Support for Those Electing to Stay During Project Period. The project would
include special efforts to identify and provide village ecodevelopment investments for
people who do not wish to relocate during the project period. The eligibility criteria for
village ecodevelopment investments (see Annex 8) would limit the range of options
available to many of the people living within the PAs. Some of the people resident in the
PAs are non-cultivating tribals without documented land titles and in these cases land
based investments would usually not be possible. Examples of possible investments for
these people include training and equipment for job and livelihood opportunities related to
contractual PA management activities and ecotourism enterprises. People living within the
PAs have felt the burden of PA establishment most heavily. It is important to not exclude
these people from access to village ecodevelopment support, and to carefully consider
their special situation during the negotiation of the reciprocal commitments. Although the
value per household of village ecodevelopment investment provided to people remaining
within the PA would be equivalent to those living in the periphery, in terms of unit costs
per household it would amount to only a fraction of the support provided to people
choosing to relocate.
9.    Legal Setting. Most people living within the PAs reside in (a) legally excluded
enclaves or (b) forest villages within parts of the PAs that are legally classified as
sanctuaries or forest reserves. Section 24 (2) (c) of the Wildlife Act permits "the
continuance of any right of any person in or over any land within the limits of the
sanctuary", and similar legal provisions allowing the continuation of rights exist for forest
reserves. In the Palamau Tiger Reserve, 630 people live in forest villages within a
sanctuary, in an area that is an "intended national park". According to Section 35 (4) (a)
of the Wildlife Act, after a declaring that it intends to establish a national park in a specific
area, the Government would notify the area as a national park after "all claims.... have
been disposed of by the State Government". Hence national park notification depends
upon a resolution of rights which is not time-bounid In Palamau, the state government has
not decided how it will resolve the claims nor does has it set a deadline for this resolution
of claims and the legal notification. According to section 35 (3) and (5) of the Wildlife
Act, once a national park has received notification, alteration of boundaries requires a
resolution of the state legislature, and no continuance of rights over land within the park is
allowed. In Nagarhole National Park, 7,100 people live in forest villages within a notified
national park and 1,200 people in Ranthambhore Tiger Reserve live "on the boundary" of
a notified national park.
10.   Government Approach. While legally state governments cannot give permission
for people to continue to live within a notified national park, in practice, most state
governments have addressed the problem of resident communities pragmatically. They
have not enforced the full rigor of the law because it would be socially and politically
difficult. During the past decade, state governments with people in intended and notified
national parks and core parts of sanctuaries have provided incentives for people to move
to the buffer or peripheral areas of the PAs. Incentives have included support for housing,
village infrastructure, land and irrigation. However, these past initiatives have not



284                           Annex 20
necessarily been "voluntary" according to the definition outlined in paragraph 2 above.
Project preparation involved extensive dialogue on the opportunity the project provides to
develop a participatory, voluntary approach. Government officials have agreed to use the
project to experiment with this approach.
11.   Build on Established Strategy. Recent Bank-financed state forestry projects in
India have established a strategy that there would be no involuntary relocation of people in
the PA undertaken by SFDs. The project would build upon this strategy and actively
develop a program of participatory, voluntary relocation that could serve as a model for
other PAs. In addition to developing a model program of voluntary relocation, the project
would address issues of people in PAs under a program to strengthen PA management
plans, which would consider possible rationalization of PA boundaries (see Annex 7), and
under the research program (see Annex 10). For example, some of the people within
Nagarhole live on a periphery that might be excluded from the park by redefinition of
boundaries, and the PA management planning and research activities would consider the
environmental feasibility of this option.
12.   The following assurances have been obtained from the GOI and participating
states and were reconfirmed during negotiations: that the GOSs would:
(a)   In pursusing the objectives of the Project, not carry out any involuntary
resettlement for any people resident within the PAs
(b)   Ensure that any proposals for voluntary relocation would be prepared and
implemented in accordance with criteria agreed with IDA and after prior
approval of IDA
(c)   For people who opt to remain in the PAs, prepare an indicative list of
appropriate village ecodevelopment investments acceptable to the Bank,
which meets project criteria, and include these people in the village
ecodevelopment program
(d)   Adopt an explicit strategy and plan for sustainable encroachment control
acceptable to IDA before making proposals for programs of voluntary
relocation.
Non-project activities, including those related to resettlement, would be subject to the
regional impacts covenant (see paragraph 17 below).
13.   Criteria. The proposals would follow the strategy and guidelines outlined in this
Annex, including
(a)   Consistency with the project interpretation of "voluntary"
(b)   Consistency with the Bank's Operational Directive 4.20 (Indigenous
People) prior to execution
(c)   Consistency with best practice outlined in the Bank's Operational Directive
4.30 (Involuntary Resettlement) prior to execution
(d)   Development of participatory operational plans with the assistance of
independent NGOs or consultants



285                            Annex 20
(e)   Prior to execution, review of plans by the Bank on a case-by-case basis, to
ensure consistency with strategy and guidelines outlined in this Annex
(f)   Prior to execution, correction of any inconsistencies in plans identified by
Bank review
(g)   Inclusion of an independent program to monitor voluntary relocation
(h)   Correction of problems identified by monitoring
(i)    Documentation of conformity with the above points by provision of
transparent, credible, and verifiable information.
Execution of relocation would include proceeding with any land acquisition already
underway and the initiation of any new land acquisition.
14.   The state governments confirmed during appraisal and again at negotiations that
since the November 1994 preappraisal, they have not acquired land from current residents
within the project PAs, provided compensation to them, nor built housing for them, or
otherwise carried out activities that could be considered implementation of a resettlement
plan that has not been reviewed and approved by the Bank. The Bank decision to exclude
the Similipal Tiger Reserve from the project demonstrates the importance that the Bank
attaches to these assurances.
15.   Investment in Support of Voluntary Relocation. In providing supplementary
support for voluntary relocation from core to periphery areas the project would enable
states to develop model policies in accordance with recent GOI guidelines and Bank ODs
for assisting families desiring to move. It is currently anticipated that Buxa, Gir,
Nagarhole, and Ranthambhore would use these funds, but Palamau and Periyar could also
participate if they wished. These funds, which would be additional to GOI and state
allocations, would be used to:
(a)   Develop participatory operational plans with the help of qualified NGOs or
consultants
(b)   Provide additional funds to support households in maintaining their
livelihoods in the transitional period (3 years) through employment, asset
creation, and training
(c)    Support NGO services carrying out voluntary relocation activities
(d)   Maintain cultural continuity by modest support of such actions as
relocation of tribal shrines and community activity centers, cultural events,
passing on of indigenous knowledge, etc.
(e)   Provide consultancy on plan assessment.



286                                 Annex 20
Comments on Relocation Discussions
Protected Area           Comments
Buxa, West Bengal        One forest village in reserve (pop. 275) is likely to choose voluntary relocation
Gir, Gujarat             Only limited numbers of people in nesses (population 2540) expected to participate
in relocation during project period.
Nagarhole, Karnataka     Prior to project, PA staff prepared a proposal to relocate 6145 people. With project
emphasis on voluntary participation, only a portion of the total numbers are
anticipated to participate. PPF included preliminary study.
Palamau, Bihar           There are three forest villages in intended NP (pop 630) where relocation has
previously been discussed but is not being pursued. PPF included preliminary study.
Pench, Madhya Pradesh    No settlements in proposed national park; resettlement completed in early 1994,
prior to project preappraisal.
Periyar, Kerala          No plans to relocate anvone.
Ranthambhore, Rajasthan   There are 4 villages on boundarv of declared NP (pop 1210) where relocation has
been under discussion, but only a portion of the total numbers are likely to
participate.
16.    Government and Private Colonies. Government and private colonies within PAs
include major installations such as hydropower, irrigation, and electricity boards, tourism
complexes, railway complexes, mines, industries, and places of religious importance. The
project design incorporates PA management planning activities to determine impact of
such installations on biodiversity and the formulation of policies and agreements to
mitigate serious disturbances. In the case of government enclosures, with their large
groups of staff and laborers, it will be useful to assess if the numbers resident within the
PA boundaries are necessary, and whether there is scope to negotiate with the relevant
entities their reduction or relocation.
17.    Encroachment Control. With or without proposals for voluntary relocation, state
governments would take steps to ensure that activities outside the PA would not
undermine effective encroachment control.
18.    Regional Impacts. The project strategy for relocation would not necessarily apply
to non project activities (e.g., Kutku irrigation dam in Bihar, see Annex 6). To address this
type of situation, assurances were obtained at negotiations that activities outside the
scope of the project would not undermine effective biodiversity conservation within the
project PAs, and would not undermine the implementation of the ecodevelopment strategy
in and around the PAs (see Annex 7).
19.    Operational Directive on Involuntary Resettlement. The Operational Directive
on Involuntary Resettlement (4.30) provides useful guidelines and principles to be
followed in any proposals for resettlement, even if this is voluntary. Examples of these
O.D. recommendations include, inter alia,:
(a)    The preparation of a relocation plan that attempts to improve or at least
restore living standards, earning capacity and production levels of the
displaced people: It should include provision to
(i)    assist the displaced people in the relocation move and provide
support during the transition period in the new site



287                               Annex 20
(ii)   assist the displaced people in their efforts to improve their former
living standards, income earning capacity, and production levels, or
at least to restore them. The project has provided for supplementary
support in order to improve their incomes and resources
(b)   Involving both settlers and hosts in resettlement activities: In designing the
relocation plan, special emphasis would be placed on:
(i)    community participation in planning and implementing it
(ii)   enabling resettlers to maintain cultural continuity through building
on existing social and cultural institutions. The project provides for
supplementary measures to assist community in relocating cultural
structures and maintaining desired cultural traditions
(iii)   measures to integrate re-settlers socially and economically into host
communities so as to minimize adverse impacts on the host
communities, if applicable
(c)    Improve or restore economic base: Resettlement plans should be based on
a strategy to improve or at least restore the economic base for those
relocated. The content of the resettlement plans, should normally include a
statement of objectives and policies and other features
(d)    Valuation and compensation for land and other assets affected by the
project. Prior to relocation, people would be provided a compensation
package of support for housing, village infrastructure, land, and irrigation
to compensate for lost assets, equivalent to full replacement value of all
assets to be foregone, including usufruct and customary tenure.
Compensation would be facilitated by:
(i)    paying special attention to the adequacy of legal arrangements
concerning land title, registration, and site occupation to ensure
secure rights (e.g., leasehold, full title), to ensure that security of
tenure is at least equivalent to what would be forgone, and to
ensure that there is no erosion of customary tenure of tribals
(ii)   publicizing among affected people to be displaced the laws and
regulations governing relocation and compensation
(iii)   development of mechanisms to prevent illegal encroachers to take
advantage of such benefits and to prevent nonresidents moving into
those areas vacated
(iv)   establishment of a simple grievance mechanism to resolve any
disputes that may arise.
20.   Operational Directive on Indigenous People. The objective of the Operational
Directive on Indigenous People (4.20) is to ensure that indigenous peoples do not suffer
adverse effects during development processes and that the social and economic benefits
they receive are in harmony with their cultural preferences. It is based on a strategy of
informed participation of affected indigenous peoples through methods such as direct



288                                Annex 20
consultation, incorporation of indigenous knowledge into the project, and use of
experienced specialists.
21.    To be consistent with this OD's guidance, on-going participatory project planning
(e.g. PA management planning, village ecodevelopment microplanning, and voluntary
relocation planning) will need to take into account the following information needs:
(a)    Legal status of affected groups, including existing rights, concessions,
access to resources, and legal protection
(b)    Baseline data on settlement patterns, social structure, incomes sources
resource use, relationship to others, etc.
(c)    Land tenure, both legally registered and customary
(d)    The strategy for on-going participation in decision-making throughout the
project
(e)    Technical identification of development and mitigation activities
(f)    The adequacy of institutional capacity to deal with indigenous peoples
(g)    Methods of monitoring impacts on indigenous peoples, including
participatory monitoring.
22.    The plans developed should:
(a)    Be culturally appropriate, and only decided after full consideration of
options preferred by indigenous people
(b)    Anticipate all adverse trends and have developed a mitigation plan
(c)    Ensure adequate institutional skills, including those available to
government, local communities, and NGOs
(d)    Take into account tribal social life and religious beliefs
(e)    Support production systems adapted to the needs and environment of
indigenous people
(f)    Avoid dependency through transferring management skills
(g)    Cover all other guidance outlined in OD 4.20.
Draft Job Description for Relocation Plan Reviews
Reports to:        PA Manager
Objective:         To assess proposed voluntary relocation plans for their conformity with the project
strategy on voluntary relocation, with World Bank Operation Directives on
resettlement and indigenous people and GOI guidelines on resettlement associated
with PAs.
To make field visits to confirm that plans accurately reflect people's perceptions,
accurately assess relocation sites, and otherwise reflect reality.
To recommend actions for meeting the above guidelines.



289                                     Annex 20
To assist in monitoring activities associated with relocation.
Responsibilities:    Review the number of households interested in considering relocation.
Review the system of land tenure and transfer.
Review the system of land acquisition. including procedures related to the
valuation of land and other assets acquired, and the potential adverse impacts of a
weak land tenure on land acquisition procedures and compensation eligibility.
Review specific social, economic and cultural loss of the community facing
resettlement, especially that related to loss of access to forest resources, and
suggest ways to minimize or mitigate these losses.
Assess women's role in their families, community and in the subsistence economy
and also the impacts of relocation on them and in the process suggest ways and
means to help them regain or improve their role.
Assess the affected people's perception regarding issues related to land acquisition,
compensation, resettlement, relocation site, the project, strategies for economic
rehabilitation, and its benefits to them. Assess the extent of consent to relocation.
Assess extent of participation in planning.
Assess the relocation site and proposed infrastructure for cultural and social
compatibility, suggest measures to improve facilities, suggest measures to ensure
participatory implementation, and suggcst opportunities for socioeconomic
integration of the displaced peoples with the host community.
Identify Government development schemes and welfare services in the relocation
site, suggest linkages to complement the package of benefits offered to affected
peoples, and assess the impact of the linkages on the host community.
Assess the proposed compensation and entitlement package for resettlement and
rehabilitation, including land-for-land, transition phase support, productive assets
for self-employment, and other means for income generation and social
infrastructure.
Assess the extent to which participation in relocation would be voluntary in the
sense that it would be driven by the wishes of local people.
Design a participatory plan to monitor the relocation process.
Provide specialist services required for relocation monitoring.
Duration:            Initial review: three to six months; thereafter on retainer basis to assist with
monitoring
Qualifications:      Organization or individual with professional experience in resettlement issues;
participatory planning experience; prior experience with World Bank projects
desirable; strong writing skills.






291                            Annex 21
Annex 21: Economic Analysis
Overall Benefits
1.    The project would conserve globally significant biodiversity in the seven PAs and
develop capacity for increased conservation in the future. The project would support
mutually dependent activities that in combination would reduce negative environmental
impacts of local people on biodiversity, and increase protection of biodiversity in the PAs.
In the project areas, over the long term, the project would help to slow, halt, or possibly
even reverse the current declines in:
(a)   the area and degree of ecosystem richness, complexity, and diversity
(b)   the presence, productivity, and abundance of significant species
(c)   the extent of regional connectivity
(d)   the extent of nutrient recycling and rate of regeneration
(e)   the control of weeds and exotic species.
The project would also increase the capacity of government officials to manage PAs
effectively, addressing not only internal operations but also proposed and existing
periphery and regional activities that impact the PAs. It would increase the capacity of
local communities to play a positive role in PA management. The project would also
increase the support of local people for PA conservation. It would develop stakeholder
consensus on conservation-related strategies. The project would create processes and
organizational frameworks that could be expanded to other ecologically significant areas.
In addition to these overall benefits that derive from the total package, each project
component would produce specific outputs and benefits described below.
Outputs from Improved PA Management
2.    Improving PA Planning Processes and Building Capacity (averaging
US$150,000 base costs per PA). Strengthening of PA management skills and the regional
planning and regulation activities would:
(a)   produce a comprehensive and carefully designed work program for
protecting and managing ecosystems and habitats of the project PAs
covering the last three years of the program
(b)   broaden the focus of existing PA management planning capacity to more
comprehensively cover ecological considerations (e.g., boundaries, buffers,
and ecosystems), PA-related concerns of local people, and strategies for
relevant government programs and policies (e.g., research, environmental
education, ecotourism)
(c)   ensure compliance with the project covenant that activities outside the
scope of the project would not undermine effective biodiversity
conservation in the project PAs and



292                            Annex 21
(d)   develop a replicable model for more effectively integrating PA concerns
into regional planning and regulation processes.
3.    Protecting and Managing Ecosystems and Habitats (averaging US$1,680,000
base costs per PA) would:
(a)   restore ecosystem and habitat through works (e.g., weed eradication, soil
and water conservation, domestic/exotic animal controls), both those
needed on an urgent basis during the first two years of the project, and
those identified through the updated PA management plans for the last
three years of the project, providing the foundation for normal plant and
animal succession in the future
(b)   improve fire control, increase the effectiveness of anti-poaching efforts,
reduce the extent to which wild animals stray out of the PA
(c)   reduce the negative impacts of visitors, in accordance with
recommendations of ecological research and ecotourism strategies
(d)   increase employment and byproduct sharing opportunities for local people
in PA management activities
4.    Upgrading PA Amenities for Field Staff (averaging US$150,000 base costs per
PA) would improve staff morale and increase the amount of time staff spend in the field,
thereby increasing staff efficiency and effectiveness.
Outputs from Village Ecodevelopment
5.    Microplanning and Implementation Support (ranging from US$1,500 per
group to US$9,200 per group, depending on group size and local cost parameters,
covering a three to four year period for each group, for about 800 groups) would:
(a)   provide the basis for conflict resolution by identifying and defining
reciprocal commitments through an innovative and replicable participatory
negotiation process
(b)   strengthen the capacity of communities to obtain support services and to
negotiate with outsiders (e.g. traders, outside groups who use PA
resources)
(c)   secure an equitable distribution of benefits, and ensure participation of
women, tribals and other disadvantaged people in community decisions
about resource distribution and investment selection
(d)   preserve and apply traditional knowledge systems in resource management
and
(e)   increase the capacity of local communities to play a positive role in PA
protection.
6.    Implementing Reciprocal Commitments and Associated Investments
(US$300 base costs per household (including preinvestment for credibility and villager
contribution), or ranging in size from US$2,400 to US$67,500 per group, depending on



293                            Annex 21
the number of households in each group, usually covering a three year investment period
for each group). The commitments would involve about 71,000 households, although due
to phasing not all households would receive the full three year investment allocation. The
commitments and investments would:
(a)   slow, halt, or possibly even reverse unsustainable resource uses by local
people (e.g., grazing, fuel wood removal, NTFP removal, poaching)
(b)   partially offset negative economic and cultural impacts of PAs on local
people (especially vulnerable groups such as tribals and women) and
(c)   help enable local people to meet their basic needs in an environmentally
sustainable manner.
7.    Special Programs. This part of the project would:
(a)   Support joint forest management of about 700 ha in two PAs (at about
US$342 base costs per ha annually beyond the scope permitted within the
standard village ecodevelopment budget constraint, thereby reversing the
ecological degradation of areas surrounding the national parks and
sanctuaries
(b)   provide compensatory alternative livelihood opportunities and cultural
continuity activities to people in the PAs who have been most severely
affected by PA establishment and reduce population pressures within
national parks and sanctuaries; to do this use voluntary relocation
(estimated total base costs of less than US $440,000, averaging US$1180
base costs per participating household, of which about 50% would be spent
on support services for consultation, participatory planning, and
monitoring, and 50% spent on direct compensatory support)
(c)   increase flexibility by providing discretionary funds (limited to 18% of the
total investments associated with reciprocal commitments) for
supplemental investments to be identified by PA officials and agreed by
local people that would be made outside national parks and sanctuaries,
that would benefit PA biodiversity conservation and local people.
Outputs from Environmental Education, Impact Monitoring and Research
8.    Environmental Education and Visitor Management (averaging US$180,000
base costs per PA) would:
(a)   produce an explicit strategies for environmental education/awareness and
visitor management ecotourism activities focused on the project PAs
(b)   expand public understanding of and support for conservation of the project
PAs.
(c)   reduce adverse impacts of visitors
(d)   develop new incentives for local people to support PA conservation.



294                             Annex 21
9.    Impact Monitoring and Research (averaging US$510,000 base costs per PA).
This part of the project would provide a factual basis for decision making. It would:
(a)   produce an explicit strategy for impact monitoring and research on the
project PAs
(b)   provide both accountability and a basis for improving project design on an
ongoing basis (through the project period by measuring project impacts and
effectiveness, comparing with initial expectations, and recommending
appropriate adjustments )
(c)   provide critical ecological and sccioeconomic information, including
information on cause-effect relationships, needed to improve guidelines,
policies, and strategies for PA management and village ecodevelopment in
the project areas and
(d)   increase contractual monitoring and research capacity.
Outputs from Overall Project Management
10.   Overall project management (about US$340,000 per PA for PA-level project
administration; US$860,000 for basic national level project administration; US$100,000
for translation and publicity; US$140,000 for national policy and strategic framework
studies; US$1,060,000 for national-level implementation guidelines and capacity
development; and US$830,000 for national-level implementation review). Such
management would assist in the integration, timeliness, dissemination, quality,
accountability, and adaptive management of project implementation by providing
administrative, financial, communication, technical, and review services:
Outputs from Preparation of Future Projects
11.   Project preparation (averaging US$780,000 per project for three projects --budget
based on past preparation requirements of large scale biodiversity projects) would improve
biodiversity conservation prospects in other areas by providing a portfolio of biodiversity
project proposals eligible for GEF, IDA and other donor consideration.
Measurement of Benefits
12.   The feasibility analysis and justification of this project is not based on quantified
financial and economic rates of return. Currently available methodology for quantifying
the biodiversity benefits of this project would result in estimates of relative weights for
various benefits that would not be consistent with judgments by specialists. Therefore,
such quantification would not provide a useful basis for decision-making. The project
design does incorporate a process approach to the analysis of village ecodevelopment
investments' financial feasibility, a process which also incorporates technical and social
considerations. The small size and variation in site conditions of village ecodevelopment
This would include identifying negative impacts of PA establishment and reciprocal commitments
on vulnerable groups, especially tribals and women, and developing appropriate mitigation
measures.



295                             Annex 21
investments would make detailed site specific feasibility review prohibitively expensive. To
ensure cost effective feasibility assessment, selection of investments within a fixed budget
constraint, the requirement that beneficiaries contribute their own resources, and
monitoring would give local people incentive to seek expert advice where necessary and
to take responsibility for selecting investments that maximize their well-being (within the
eligibility constraints). The project would use written guidelines (e.g., Annex 8) and
specialist review to address generic issues, ensure that feasibility requirements are met,
and provide experimental learning and adaptive management through the dynamic
planning, monitoring and adjustment processes.
Alternatives, Public Sector Role and Fiscal Impact
13.   Consideration of Alternatives. The project PA management planning and village
ecodevelopment microplanning provide for continuing, participatory consideration of
alternative investments options (e.g., works to restore ecosystems, livelihood investments
to replace unsustainable resource uses) and their comparative costs and benefits
throughout the project period.
14.   Public Sector and Non-governmental Roles. The project directly addresses
environmental externalities that require public sector initiatives. However, the project also
maximizes private sector involvement by (a) using an incentive mechanism to create a
partnership with local people for conservation, (b) developing ecotourism strategies that
include careful consideration of private sector roles, and (c) relying on contractual services
rather than an expansion in government staff The project design allocates substantial
responsibilities and resources to non-governmental entities, and supplies a small amount
supplemental resources directly to government in order to build capacity. Of the total
project costs, about US$31 million (46 percent) would flow to EDCs and US$17 million
(25 percent) to NGOs, academic institutions, and other contracted specialists. Most of the
US$2 million PPF (3 percent of total project costs) is also flowing to NGOs, academic
institutions, and EDCs. Project expenditures flowing to government would comprise
about US$17 million (25% of the total project costs) for works (that would be labor
intensive and would employ local people), goods, travel, salaries of existing staff and
operation and maintenance.
15.   Cost Recovery. Cost recovery of the village ecodevelopment investment funds
would not be appropriate. The Government would provide the funds, not for the purpose
of development itself, but rather as an incentive for local people to forgo use of PA
resources. Furthermore, project funds would only partially compensate for local people's
total socioeconomic losses that stem from the original establishment of the PAs.
16.   Fiscal Impact. The project design includes several provisions such as budget
constraints, use of state budget norms, required investment contributions from local
people, a high degree of transparency, and extensive implementation review to keep
government expenditures at reasonable levels. The project PAs were selected in part
because the costs of protection were thought to be low relative to other PAs with
comparable biodiversity values and needs for strengthened protection. Project
expenditures would represent only an insignificant fraction of the total state forest
departments investment budgets. Incremental operation and maintenance expenditures are



296                              Annex 21
minimal. The net fiscal impact is kept as small as possible and the concessional financing
of GEF and IDA makes this impact even smaller. The project itself is completely
affordable. However, the project does represent a significant increase both in the state
forest department expenditures on wildlife and in the total development ("plan") budget
flowing through the MOEF. Furthermore, large scale replication without new sources of
financing would raise issues of long-term fiscal impacts. To address these long-term
concerns, the project includes studies at both the PA level and the national level on
financial sustainability and related topics such as ecotourism (see Annexes 7 and 11).
Risk Analysis
17.   This project is not for the faint-hearted. It has significant risks. Nevertheless, the
project should proceed because of the importance of conserving biodiversity, the critical
role of local people in conservation, and the potential of this project to provide the
foundation for long-term solutions to the challenging problems that India faces.
18.   Pressures External to the Project. The pressures of population growth, poverty
and commercial interests may undermine project efforts, at least in some of the PAs. While
the project includes activities, institutional mechanisms, and a legal covenant designed to
address regional issues, it is not possible to fully address these risks within the project
design.
19.   Dangers of Unrealistic Expectations. The status of biodiversity is likely to
continue to decline in the project areas. It would be unrealistic to expect the project to
have an immediate impact or to be able single-handedly to completely halt biodiversity
degradation. Similarly, it would be unrealistic to expect that the project would be able to
completely redress past negative impacts of the PAs on local people. Furthermore,
biologists and social scientists have different perspectives and agendas that are sometimes
impossible to fully reconcile. The project and financiers face significant risks of being
associated with and blamed for negative trends and unmet needs, even if the project
succeeds in slowing the decline and addressing some needs. To address these risks, project
objectives clearly emphasize "reduction in" not "elimination of' negative impacts, project
preparation has included extensive efforts to communicate the project objectives, and
monitoring assessment criteria would further specify realistic expectations.
20.   Extensive Time and Commitment Required to Achieve Participation and
Trust. The participatory emphasis is new and will take time. Risks involve:
(a)   insufficient state government staff commitment to local participatory
decision-making; and
(b)   insufficient trust of local communities, disadvantaged groups and NGOs in
government initiatives.
To encourage sustained state government commitment to participation, the project would
allocate financing annually according to a review of work plans and progress reports and
avoiding a "blueprint" approach. To facilitate a gradual increase in trust, the project would
use participatory planning processes; include careful, comprehensive, and transparent
monitoring of social considerations, and assign important roles for NGOs.



297                                 Annex 21
21.    Limitations in Technical Implementation Capacity. India has a limited supply
of technical expertise. Both the Bank and India have limited experience with process-
oriented project design. Appraisal assessments of implementation capacity have helped
determine project scope, and detailed documentation provides guidance on project
processes.
22.    Inadequate Management Support. Potential risks include:
(a)    weaknesses in motivation and qualifications of project staff,
(b)    delays in bureaucratic processes involving flow of funds;
(c)    cumbersome logistics in arranging and processing contracts; and
(d)    poor assessments of project performance and/or poor use of assessments to
adjust project design.
The detailed specification of organizational responsibilities, administrative structures,
staffing plans, contracting arrangements, agreed performance indicators, and ongoing
planning and adjustment processes would help to ensure adequate management support.
Activities funded by the Project Preparation Facility prior to negotiations further
demonstrate that sufficient management capacity exists.
2
l____________  Risk Rating by Components
Assumption      Over-   PA    Vill  Env  Mon. Proj   Fut    Risk Minimization
all   Man   Ecod   Ed       &    Man  Proj           Measure
Res
External Pressures:   med    med   med   low   low   low   low   Project activities,
The pressures of                                                     institutional
population growth,                                                   mechanisms, and a
poverty and                                                         legal covenant that
commercial interests                                                would address regional
will not undermine                                                   issues and impacts of
project efforts                                                      non-project activities.
Political           med   med   med   low   low   low   low   Clear emphasis in
Expectations: The    to      to    to                                project objectives on
project and         high   high   high                               "reduction in" not
financiers will not                                                  "elimination of'
be associated with                                                   negative impacts,
and blamed for                                                      extensive efforts to
negative trends and                                                 communicate the project
unmet needs, and                                                     objectives, specification
will be able to                                                      of realistic expectations
handle the different                                                in monitoring
perspectives and                                                     assessment criteria, and
agendas of biologists                                               inclusion of conflict
and social scientists                                               resolution mechanisms.
2
Likelihood that critical assumption will not be valid.



298                                    Annex 21
3
Risk Rating  by Components
Assumption       Over-   PA       Viil   Env [Mon.  Proj   Fut           Risk Minimization
all    Man   Ecod   Ed         &     Man   Proj           Measure
._ __           __   Res
Participation and     med    high    med   low    low    med   low   annual allocation of
Trust: Government                                                         project financing
staff will be                                                             according to a review of
commited to local                                                         work plans and progress
participatory                                                             reports and avoiding a
decision-making                                                           "blueprint" approach;
and local                                                                 use of participatory
conununities,                       I                                     planning processes;
disadvantaged                                                             including careful,
groups and NGOs                     .                                     comprehensive, and
will trust the              |                                             transparent monitoring
government                                                                of social considerations;
initiatives of project                                                    and assignment of
important roles for
I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   -_ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _N G O s
Implementation        med    low    med   iow    high   med   high  Project scope
Capacity. Project           I                                             determined by appraisal
will have adequate          i                                 I           assessments of
technical expertise                                                       implementation capacit;
and develop                                                               provision of guidance
operational skills                                                        on project processes
needed to implement                 I                                     through detailed
process-oriented                                                          documentation
project design. _
Management            med    low    med   low    med   nmed   high  Detailed specification of
Support Project                                                   I       organizational
managers will be                           |                      I       responsibilities,
able to process             I       i                                     administrative
contracts,                                                                structures, staffing
administer fund                                                           plans, contracting
flow, and handle                                                         arrangements,
performance review                                                        performance indicators,
efficiently and                                                           and ongoing planning
effectively.                I                                     j       and adjustment
processes. Also using
PPF to demonstrate that
sufficient management
I ____________     _ I_            _ 1_           _ li     I      |      |capacity  exists.
3
Likelihood that critical assumption will not be valid.



299                            Annex 22
Annex 22: Documents Available in Project File
1.    Indicative Plan (as revised October 1994)
2.    Background Information on Biodiversity in India
3.    Ecotourism Working Paper
4.    Finalized Staff Plans for Each Protected Area and MOEF
5.    Institutional Development Working Paper
6.    Detailed Cost Tables






IBRD 27842
INDIA
ECODEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                 WEST                             D -ding                   B-uo Tiger
BENGAL                           'a.aiRe                    eerve ToDispur
BUXA TIGER RESERVE                                                                                             ar
WEST BENGAL                                                   0          100    200    300                               t,j
BUXA TIGER RESERVE BOUNDARY                                         KILOMETERS
m          SANCTUARY                                                                                          C          OBaIurghat
|     j | CORE AREA/PROPOSED NATIONAL PARK                                                                    t
RESERVE FORESTS                                                                                          -t
ROADS
--------RA LROADS                                                                                     Ingrabozar0t--)  t
To                                                T.Bahormpur  j  To Dhakka
VILLAGES/VILLAGE ENCLAVES                                         Aurongabodi
*      FOREST REST HOUSES
-' '-   STATE BOUNDARY
-  '      ~ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY                                                             P,rulia
To Raipur                 Haorao * CALCUTTA
Buxa Tiger Reserve is situated a northern West Bengal s Jalpoiguri district, on
the berder with Bthtan and the state of Assom  It covers an area of 761 krn2,
with a core zone of 314 5 ki2 designated as sanctuary t 1 t7 km2 proposed                                                      -f
nationa park)
0              S              tO ID                                I                      To Bhubaneshwar
KILOMETERS
Thandnrds. nior  ,evem,uov and anyiHou                                                  B    H    U    T   A       N
Creep any ndgievt an the legau nxe    Dusr or  or5t Houser on
_aoscn o r                     |setoc o! suc neud;s
v-A Sou th R1vidkhasYcU 1996
{  ~~~~~- ~~Godad                                                        Iar;
JALPAIGURI DISTRICT                                           J t\                                     /
,ho.m on th,, ..p do r.t -mply, on 0,e po I of The W-rld B-n                                                          _               
G-op an-uge7 l}telgl^auso n el ry o n
end--smen c,r ,-cpf-nc, of-suh anr
JULY 1 996






IBRD 27843
INDIA                                                                                                      T
ECODEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GIR NATIONAL PARK AND SANCTUARY    -                                                                                    7   Paianpir:J1 .
GUJARAT                                                                                                         g Bhu;  -  Mahesana  oa
Bhuio~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--
*,i ,GANDH1NAGAR   Ratlor
GIR WILDLIFE SANCTUARY BOUNDARY                                                                        Ahmadabod 
Surkndranar-
GIR NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARY                                                                       KJ,eda         oGdhrc-
'-i-   CORE AREA                                                                         olt             Yadodart
|    Z |BUFFER AREA
ROADS                                                                                     Ban~(
~~ ROADS   ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~          /      oA m           i--- .7~~~~~~~~~~~thharuch  
RAILROADS                                                           }agdh          G, 0amre  P / Nura-               '  To
TEMPLES                                                                             -  cd Soncrucuu9                     Jalgaon
A     NESS                                                                                                           Ahwak
O     SELECTED REVENUE VILLAGES ON                           GUJARAT                        ju            Volso$         ?
PERIPHERY OF SANCTUARY                                                                                        SILVASSA
*     FOREST SETTLEMENT VILLAGES                         0         100         200        300
'i)   TALUKA HEADQUARTERS                                             KILOMEIERS                                To Bomboy
- - - -  DIVISION BOUNDARY
Gir National Park and Sanctuary is located in the Kathiawar Peninsula in
Saurashtra, Gujorat. The entire Protected Area covers 1 412 km2 oF which
258 km2 is National Park and 1,154 km2 is Gir Wildlife Sanctuary.
v15AXt                                 z@ ~~~~~ ~~~DHARI              L
Mari'pur             2g          )*Hasnapu                   rv
MENDARDA                                    rp      Sattadliar        OM  andia       (            /
O Natalia                                                                             Kr,  sa ~-
,  Jambuthala  /g       * AKz                          Semard Li  -5 l
A Navi-Alavani             _Sn                                                   AMRELI DISTRICT
Vanioa      _              KacoehX\ ii                                        f         -
Ponchali     fKamleswar                                              pnes A *   Hadola                       KHAMBHA
(j) MALIA                                                                                                a              Dodhi
~~~~~~~ruI_ T fU sso                                                                                       Chiklku6
tJ        ~~~VodalcO>         \                                              Jasadnov
TALALA X         <st                                    z       W                             h J
,SlO +S,_9 ~~~~~~~~~~Babar;a_ 
V el~~mw anh;
JUNAGADH DISTRICT
'-.   (VERAVAL
-N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
_                      KlD~~~~~~INAR                                                        -      J
0        5       10      15       20       25                                                  /)         /    Theatirrnolensd.no,intteens andr  othr inkfe,,nohe
I       I        I        I       I        I                                                                   J  /ont lbnmtpdorntknpty,oeih.eporTheWerddB.nk
KlLOMETERS                                     Arabian   Sea                                    t,mw,de o         t         oP anybreitry, r vy
JULY 1996






IBRD 27844
To Nanded
INDIA                                                                                           1r
KARNATAKA                       r-'
ECODEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                AND GOA                                  d wBdar
NAGARHOLE/RAJIV GANDHI NATIONAL PARK                                                                T.Bomory    '                          To Hyderbad
KARNATAKA                                                           T.
NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARY                                               Rotnog-  ' R--                    ,n_
m    CORE AREA                                                                     Blon
NON-CORE AREA                                                                                            T. C,ddaph
TOURISM ZONE
STATE FOREST BOUNDARIES
ROADS                                                                                                        4 s. ,
0     VILLAGES/VILLAGE ENCLAVES                                                                             T  k
-- - -  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                                     Chin g alo        n       Kor
-    -  STATE BOUNDARY                                                                   .            H.,
Cowr  -   N9rloe  Noioa
Nagarhole National Park, in the Kodogu and Mysore districts of Karnataka state,                                      NM !  qrhole Natona
coyers and area of 643 km'2 with a core zone of 192 km2 and a tourism zone of         0       100                             'Park
llDkm 2 .                                                                                      I 
KILOMETERS
Anechaukur 
Siddapur    .'   ,  a
DISTRICT
KODAGU                   0 Nova ctde
DISTRICT                     a. ti
Doaoboir  kpeKILOMETERS
The bo-d-, oor,    n       d ay
thA.  oo thl, nap dono -otipy, o- the port at The Wo-ld Book
KR4LA4                                    endo-rseet or -rcpte- of s-h ho-dodes
JULY 1996



I



IBRD 27845
INDIA                                                                                                             BIHAR
ECODEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                               Lukn                                                           Gontok
PAIAMAU TIGER RESERVE
BIHAR
PALAMAU TIGER RESERVE BOUNDARY                                              To                      ,                    Khagarr 
CORE AREA                                                                                          Ar'
m          BUFFER AREA                                                                                           b                          ag  lpu
...   PROPOSED BETLA NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARY                                                                                                        T.
m   TOURISM  ZONE                                                                  .
m          AREA OF THE TIGER RESERVE EXCLUDED FROM THE SANCTUARY                         D             Ha
W   AREA OF POTENTIAL INUNDATION FROM  KUTKU DAM
ROADS                                                                      Polamau Tiger; ,
-- |       RAILROADS                                                                     Resere                                                         TO
*      FOREST REST HOUSES
o      VILLAGES/VILLAGE ENCLAVES                                                                  J1
*      RANGE HEADQUARTERS
-_ DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
_     _   STATE BOUNDARIES                                                                                    o Nagpur  /
0           100          200         300
KILOMETERS
Palamau Tiger reserve, located in the Palamou district in
southwest Bihor, is 1 ,026 km2 in area The core zone Bel
encompasses 213 km2, 766 km2 of the buffer zone form the
Palamasu Wildlife Sanctuary, and 47 km2 is reserve forest.
Same 29 km2 of this area is designated as a tourism zone.
An area of 225 km2 covering the current core area plus a
portion of the sancturay is the intended area of the proposed
Betlo National Park.
f f r \ ~~~~~~Kerh
z    w o)  tR    ~~~~PALAAU DISTRICT
41  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
PRADESH~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ RANCHI DISTRICT
The buduvec coor do--e-i -d uy othe rf-rmu
sho-  &v -Itcp cove - mply on uhe pert o The Worl Beck                                                                           1           2          3           4          5
Or-p, cc1,dg-     ~ escie`gtt   socyc-roy c-r-y,                                                                                  I                     I           I          J
-4d--sm    Ptorc-eptc ... clc b-d-ro-                                                                                                       KILOMETERS
JULY 1996






IBRD 27846
INDIA                                                                      r <-,
ECODEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                           r    i
PENCH TIGER RESERVE                                                           T. oKet
MADHYA PRADESH                                                         GM.   F-/oogh O,,
PENCH TIGER RESERVE BOUNDARY                                  tVd -
CORE AREA/PROPOSED NATIONAL PARK                             U         S-o:         OAt
BUFFER AREAS                                              D Dha    0t Ho-tngoo, ,d
PENCH WILDLIFE SANCTUARY                                K K  a        ho             Chh Tiger      B ,o ho            
-    RESERVED FORESTS                                                                                                                   CuiusrT
L___            i PROTECTED FORESTS
SUBMERGENCE AREA                                                                        To            RoHys-dgouo  urp
REVENUE AREAS                                                        MADHYA                        p                    I thonr
- MAIN ROADS
SECONDARY ROADS                                                      PRADESH                                         -  
--        RAILROADS                                                               00      200     300                                TVpS
0     VILLAGES                                                                 KI              r             r
- - - -  DISTRICT BOUNDARY
- '  '   ~ STATE BOUNDARY                             _     _b_
Located in the Sean and Chhindwara districts of Madhyca Pradesh, Pench Tiger
Reserve covers an area of 757 km2 witk a core zone lintended national
park) Of 293 km', a tourism zone (intended national park) of 55 km', a
wildlfe sancruary of 1 8 km0 and 308 km2 of reserve and protected forests.
.     0        5         1 0       1 5      20        25                                                
I   I        ~     ~~I  I         I         I                                                  _       
KILOMETERS
C     a risoopsn                d aparor ep ra
~~~~~~OBisapu/Kpla n~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~srsrr nthsra d o epy nth otofTeWrl ol
fL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~edreen or occepinocow of suc bondis_
L &\ Bichhuo a      C                  H                  I                 N                S A                     t .                  1
9~~~~~~~~~~ I/                      S                                          S E CN4I 
The bonans1-tr, -eoratosad on ohsr nomt
shom on fh,, -p do -ot-Mply, onthe port of The Worid B.rk
enos e  r accpt-ne of -uh b-rJd.ries
JULY 1 996






To ka, eCir
INDIA
ECODEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PERIYAR TIGER RESERVE                                                                    5p
KERALA                                                              Cannanore         -
PERIYAR TIGER RESERVE BOUNDARY                                        Calicat
PROPOSED NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARY                                                     Moiop& orrm          Trc Soie,,
___,U  | CORE AREA                                                      KERALA
| BUFFER AREA/SANCTUARY                                                      Trichur
[   TOURISM AREA/SANCTUARY
ROADS                                                                     Ernakulam\  Idukki0:
5     TEMPLE                                                                         Kot/oyarn.      ,rr-
0     VILLAGES/VILLAGE ENCLAVES                                                    Alleppey              To Maduirdr    j
- ---   DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                                Quilon
-  '  '  ~ STATE BOUNDARY
TRIVANDRUM   f
The Periyar Tiger Reserve, locaIe in the idukki dis,t,ct of Kerala, covers an area of
777 km2, oF which 350 km2 is the core zone (national park), 377 km2 is sanctuary              0          100        200         300
buffer zone and 50 km2 iS a sanctuary tourism zone                                            I           I           I          I
KILOMETERS
0             5              10             15
I             I              I              I
KILOMETERS
(uninhctbe6v                                                     --kkudy
KOTTAYAM                                                                      0 /     -i iXorkk.dy/
DISTRICT           0_-8C ohknr                                                                        anLkcrf 
_r                                , lunin',;loE,i~~~   ~       ~       ~~~~ted)*                                    J 
5Nao ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                                      J  
T/re~~~~ buneis un,rf deeirfouede,u/e nnmre
G,eu nay ,u,enr env                                                                                    .                                    TAMIL u r
-        -                                                   \  .                    g   j   M~~~~~~~ADU 
A,'(uninhooiPel    ,f.9t
QUILON  DISTRICTj                                                          
JULY / 996






IBRD 27848
To Lot,ore   ~T. Ct,,odi9orh
INDIA                                       RAJASTHAN                      Ganganmc,r   -.                            -odarh
ECODEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RANTHAMBORE TIGER RESERVE
RAJASTHAN                                                                 - Bikn
,   J        | anx JhuniC~~~~~~rjun                u 
RANTHAMBORE NATIONAL PARK
BOUNDARY                                    ,
CORE AREA                                 (r Joisalmern
RANTHAMBORE TIGER RESERVE BOUNDARY                a me
BUFFER AREAS-
SANCTUARIES                                        B
f 2   KAWAUJI GAME RESERVE                                             JI                                 mc,p6
RESERVED FOREST AREAS                               \                                                                eserve/ Bhopo!
ROADS                                                                                 r
RAILROADS
0     VILLAGES/VILLAGE ENCLAVEST.di
-    '   ~ STATE BOUNDARY
0        100       200        300      ,BonsO'i
KILOMETERS                     '    (   To Ah-edabar
cad Surat
Located in the Sawai Madhopur district in southeastern Rolasthan, the
Ranthambhore Tiger Reserve covers an area of 1,334.6km2, consisting
of a national park of 392  km2, (274.5 km2 core zone and 118 km2
buffer zone) the Sawai Man Singh Sanctucr (127.6 kM2), Kelodevi
Sanctuary 1674 ki2), Kawalji Game Reserve (7.6 kM2f and some
reserved forests (132.9 km2)
- -                              ~~~SA WA I MADHOPUR                          ,   '6
SANCT YDISTRICT
Kihpu~ ~~~~ I    
Mokholio  i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~soeo t,scpd ord~I,o h eoo heWrdhn
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gop Ony udnro 0, She ,eo ,55, ,~ r0 JorS&,,r
. . f'  , i okpoli ^.
Lund                                                                        o         r orrtonue o   u
R\J  ASij2^[anw   .  OKhanrJellalU
Khlck.pu           LacKayardiS
2J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ L.,dI
Kus                                             J Joo _,0                                    MADHYWA
Rt    }   _"                     ANTUR
~~~~~~~~~~~~ KhILOMETERS
Badpur~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h budns oos dnmrbn n ayohrmrao
mipur~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hwna hsmpd  r  ml,a h eno h  adBn
SAWAI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rdreetO acpnra8 5bJ {nkrhy rrn
SANCTUARY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UL  9






I
I
I
I



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



