Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2916 IN
                                GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF028479 IN
                             Project Agreement
                          (Ecodevelopment Project)
                                   among
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
               acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global
                             Environment Facility
                                    and
                               STATE OF BIHAR
                              STATE OF GUJARAT
                             STATE OF KARNATAKA
                              STATE OF KERALA
                           STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH
                             STATE OF RAJASTHAN
                            STATE OF WEST BENGAL
                          Dated September 30, 1996
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2916 IN
                                GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF028479 IN
                              PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 30, 1996, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global
Environment Facility (GEF) and the STATES OF BIHAR, GUJARAT, KARNATAKA,
KERALA, MADHYA PRADESH, RAJASTHAN AND WEST BENGAL (the Project States).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date here-
with between India (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to nineteen million five hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 19,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the
Project States agree to undertake such obligations toward the Associa-
tion as are set forth in the Development Credit Agreement and in this
Page  2
Agreement;
     (B)  by the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Grant Agreement) of even date herewith between India (the Recipient)
and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank)
acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility
(GEF), the Bank has agreed to make available to the Recipient an amount
in various currencies equivalent to thirteen million nine hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,900,000) (the Grant) on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Grant Agreement;
     (C)   parts A, B, C and D of the Project will be carried out by
the States of Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh,
Rajasthan and West Bengal (hereinafter called the Project States) with
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to the Project States part of the proceeds of the
Credit, and part of the proceeds of the Grant, as provided in this
Agreement;
     WHEREAS the Project States, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, and
the Bank entering into the Grant Agreement with the Recipient, have
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                               Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Grant Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
                               ARTICLE II
                       Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) Each of the Project States declares its commit-
ment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts
A, B, C and D of the Project through its Forest Department with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admini-
strative, financial and environmental practices, under the overall
coordination of MOEF, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for Parts A, B, C and D of the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Association, the Bank and the Project
States shall otherwise agree, each of the Project States shall carry
out Parts A, B, C and D of the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
     Section 2.02. Except as the Association and the Bank shall other-
wise agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to the Development Credit Agreement.
     Section 2.03. (a) Each of the Project States shall carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08
of the General Conditions applicable to the Development Credit Agree-
ment, and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the
General Conditions applicable to the Loan and Guarantee Agreements
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Project Agreement and Parts A, B, C and D of the Project.
     (b)  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions,
and without limitations thereto, each of the Project States shall
Page  3
prepare and furnish to the Association and the Bank, not later than
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Association and the Bank and each
of the Project States, a plan satisfactory to the Association and the
Bank for the future operation of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project.
     Section 2.04. (a) Each of the Project States shall, at the request
of the Association and the Bank, exchange views with the Association
and the Bank with regard to the progress of Parts A, B, C and D of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and the Grant.
     (b)  Each of the Project States shall promptly inform the Asso-
ciation and the Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and the Grant, or the
performance by such Project State of its obligations under this Agree-
ment.
                                ARTICLE III
                            Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) Each of the Project States shall maintain records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
Parts A, B, C and D of the Project of the departments or agencies of
such Project State responsible for carrying out Parts A, B, C and D of
the Project.
     (b)  Each of the Project States shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
               sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
               to the Association and the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as
               available, but in any case not later than nine months
               after the end of each such year, the report of such
               audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
               detail as the Association and the Bank shall have
               reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Association and the Bank such other
               information concerning said records, accounts and
               financial statements as well as the audit thereof,
               as the Association and the Bank shall from time
               to time reasonably request.
                                ARTICLE IV
                       Effective Date; Termination;
                       Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement and the Grant
Agreement become effective.
     Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and the Bank and each of the Project States thereunder
shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
               and the Grant Agreement shall terminate in accordance
               with their terms; or
         (ii)  the date twenty (20) years after the date of this
               Agreement.
     (b)  If the Development Credit Agreement or the Grant Agreement
Page  4
terminates in accordance with its terms before the date specified in
paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association and the Bank
shall promptly notify each of the Project States of this event.
     Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE V
                         Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses
so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               INDEVAS                       248423 (RCA),
               Washington, D.C                82987 (FTCC),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street N.W
          Washington, D.C.  20433
          United States of America
          Cable Address:                     Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                     197688 (TRT),
               Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
     For Bihar:
         Chief Secretary
         Government of Bihar
         Patna
         Bihar, India
     For Gujarat:
         Chief Secretary
         Government of Gujarat
         Gandhinagar,
         Gujarat, India
     For Karnataka:
         Chief Secretary
         Government of Karnataka
         Bangalore
         Karnataka, India
Page  5
     For Kerala:
         Chief Secretary
         Government of Kerala
         Trivandrum,
         Kerala, India
     For Madhya Pradesh:
         Chief Secretary
         Government of Madhya Pradesh
         Bhopal,
         Madhya Pradesh, India
     For Rajasthan:
         Chief Secretary
         Government of Rajasthan
         Jaipur
         Rajasthan, India
     For West Bengal:
         Chief Secretary
         Government of West Bengal
         Calcutta
         West Bengal, India
     Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on
behalf of any of the Project States may be taken or executed by its Chief
Secretary or such other person or persons as such State shall designate
in writing, and each Project State shall furnish to the Association and
the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,
each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instru-
ment.
     Section 5.04. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the
contrary to the Project States, and so long as the Development Credit
Agreement shall not have terminated prior to the termination of the
Grant Agreement:
     (a)  the obligation of the Project States to consult with, and
furnish information, documents, plans, reports, records and statements
to the Bank shall be satisfied to the extent performance in respect of
such obligations is rendered to the Association;
     (b)  the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish
information to the Project States shall be satisfied to the extent
such obligations are satisfied by the Association; and
     (c)  all actions taken (including giving of approvals or granting
of waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit
Agreement shall be deemed to be taken pursuant to both the Development
Credit Agreement and the Grant Agreement, and in the name and on behalf
of the Association and the Bank.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                  AND DEVELOPMENT
               acting as an implementing agency of the
Page  6
               Global Environment Facility
               By /s/ Heinz Vergin
                                          Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              South Asia
               STATE OF BIHAR
               STATE OF GUJARAT
               STATE OF KARNATAKA
               STATE OF KERALA
               STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH
               STATE OF RAJASTHAN
               STATE OF WEST BENGAL
               By /s/ Sudhakar Rao
                                              Authorized Representative
                                  SCHEDULE
                           Implementation Program
1.   To assist in the implementation of Parts A, B, C, and D of the
Project, each of the Project States shall:
     (a)  fill, not later than July 31, 1997, all the permanent
positions required for the Project, in accordance with a staff plan
agreed with the Association and the Bank; and
     (b)  ensure that no more than 33% of the senior executive field
staff of the PAs, under normal circumstances, are transferred in one
year during the Project implementation period.
2.   To ensure that the PAs benefit from the training of recipients of
degree fellowship and overseas training under the Project, each Project
State shall take the necessary action for (i) selecting fellowship and
overseas training recipients from staff who would have, at least, five
years to retirement, except under circumstances acceptable to the
Association; and (ii) placing such fellowship and overseas training
recipients in job positions where they could make full use of their
training for a minimum of three years following completion of such
training.
3.   Each of the Project States shall plan and implement the PA manage-
ment activities under Part A of the Project in accordance with guide-
lines and procedures agreed with the Association and the Bank.
4.   Each of the Project States shall: (i) plan and implement the
Village Ecodevelopment Program under Part B of the Project in accor-
dance with procedures and criteria agreed with the Association and
the Bank, (ii) submit the first three proposals under the Ecodevelop-
ment Program under Part B of the Project for prior approval by the
Association and the Bank, and (iii) adopt, not later than September
30, 1998, government orders satisfactory to the Association and the
Bank on village ecodevelopment, consistent with the Project design.
5.   (a)  The Project States shall, in pursuing the objectives of the
Project, not carry out any involuntary resettlement for any people
resident within the PAs.
     (b)  Each of the Project States shall ensure that activities
outside the scope of the Project shall not undermine (i) effective
biodiversity conservation within the PAs, or (ii) implementation of
the ecodevelopment strategy under the Project. Activities shall be
deemed to undermine effective biodiversity conservation or imple-
mentation of the ecodevelopment strategy, if they cause:
Page  7
          (i)  an increase in the level of encroachment into the PA,
               or displacement of people in and around the PA, that
               materially and adversely affects the objectives of
               the Project, without an effective resettlement and
               rehabilitation program to prevent encroachment and
               mitigate the effects of displacement;
         (ii)  a disruption of migrations of ecologically important
               species, such as net loss of wildlife corridors; or
        (iii)  fragmentation or other changes in the legal status of
               any part of the PA that  materially and adversely
               affects (A) the viability of ecologically important
               ecosystems and species, or (B) the ecodevelopment
               strategy of increasing collaboration between local
               people and PA managers.
     (c)  Any proposals for voluntary relocation of people under Part
B (c) (ii) of the Project shall be prepared and implemented in
accordance with criteria agreed with the Association and the Bank, and
after prior approval of the Association and the Bank.
     (d)  Each of the Project States shall prepare in accordance with
procedures and guidelines agreed with the Association and the Bank an
indicative list of ecodevelopment investments for people opting to
remain within the PAs, and shall include such people in the village
ecodevelopment activities under Part B (a), (B) (b) and B (c) (iii) of
the Project.
     (e)  Each of the Project States shall prepare and discuss with
the Association and the Bank, a plan for encroachment control on the
PAs, prior to submitting any plans for voluntary relocation, and
shall thereafter implement such encroachment control plan.
6.   Each of the  Project States shall take all the necessary actions
to ensure that the Project activities shall not erode the customary
tenure rights over land and other assets of the tribal population in
the PAs.
7.   The Borrower shall cause each of the Project States, in
collaboration with MOEF, to (i) furnish to the Association and the
Bank, not later than September 30 of each year, starting September 30,
1997, for the Association and the Bank comments, a preliminary annual
work plan, including updated Project cost tables, training and con-
tracting plans and other matters as agreed with the Association; and
(ii) shall thereafter implement the final work plans taking into
account the Association and the Bank comments.
8.   Each of the Project States shall, in collaboration with MOEF:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with
indicators satisfactory to the Association, and the Bank, the carry-
ing out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof;
     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association and the Bank, and furnish to the Association and the
Bank, not later than March 31, 1999, a report integrating the
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved
in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement
of the objective thereof during the period following such date; and
     (c)  review with the Association and the Bank, by June 30, 1999,
or such later date as the Association and the Bank shall request, the
report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter,
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the
Association and the Bank views on the matter.
Page  8
9.   Each of the Project States shall select the NGOs participating
in implementation of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project in accordance
with criteria agreed with the Association and the Bank.
