Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                 CREDIT NUMBER 2916 IN
                        Development Credit Agreement
                          (Ecodevelopment Project)
                                  between
                                   INDIA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated September 30, 1996
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2916 IN
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 30, 1996, between INDIA, acting by its
President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to obtain from the Global Environment
Facility (GEF) a grant (the Grant) in an amount equivalent to thirteen
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,900,000)
to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(the Grant Agreement) of even date herewith, entered into between the
Borrower (therein referred to as the Recipient) and the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting as an implementing
agency of the GEF (the Bank);
     (C)  parts A,  B, C and D of the Project will be carried out by
the States of Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh,
Rajasthan and West Bengal (the Project States) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to the Project States part of the proceeds of the Credit
as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms
Page  2
and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, the Bank and
the Project States;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE  I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications thereto set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
          agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
          expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
          a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
          supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of
          any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
          goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
          Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United
          Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
          Charter of the United Nations."
     Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Project States" means the States of Bihar, Gujarat,
Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and West Bengal, of the
Borrower, and the term "State" means any of those States;
     (c)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Asso-
ciation and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund, and the Project States of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (d)  "Grant Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower
and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting as
an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Grant Agreement;
     (e)  "MOEF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Environment and
Forests, or any successor thereto;
     (f)  "NGO" means non-governmental organization;
     (g)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an
exchange of letters dated January 31, 1995, and March 1, 1995, between
the Borrower and the Association;
     (h)  "Protected Areas or PAs" means (i) Palamau Tiger Reserve in
Bihar, (ii) Gir National Park and Gir Sanctuary in Gujarat, (iii)
Nagarhole (Rajiv Gandhi) National Park in Karnataka, (iv) Periyar
Tiger Reserve in Kerala, (v) Pench Tiger Reserve in Madhya Pradesh,
(vi) Ranthambhore Tiger Reserve in Rajasthan, and (vii) the Buxa Tiger
Reserve in West Bengal, and PA means any of those PAs; and
Page  3
     (i)  "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower and the Project States'
fiscal year, starting April 1, and ending March 31 of each year.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                 The Credit
     Section 2.01.  The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
nineteen million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
19,500,000).
     Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the Reserve Bank of
India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be canceled.
     Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04.  (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June
30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to para-
graph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be
applied from the next payment date in that year specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant
to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07.  (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Page  4
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each February 15 and August 15 commencing
February 15, 2007 and ending August 15, 2031. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on August 15, 2016 shall be one and
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each install-
ment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant
1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider
the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may,
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the development
of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount
of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment
of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned
repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association
may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08.  The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE III
                           Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end:
          (i)  shall carry out Parts E and F of the Project through
               MOEF with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
               with appropriate administrative, financial and
               environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as
               needed, the funds and services required for Parts E and
               F of the Project; and
         (ii)  without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
               other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
               ment, shall cause the Project States to perform in
               accordance with the provisions of the Project Agree-
               ment all the obligations of the Project States therein
               set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
               including the provision of funds and services necessary
               or appropriate to enable the Project States to perform
               such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
               taken any action which would prevent or interfere with
               such performance.
     (b)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) (i) of
this Section, and except as the Association and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause MOEF to carry out Parts E
and F in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and arrangements agreed with the
Association.
     (c)  The Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Credit
Page  5
available to the Project States through MOEF, in accordance with the
Borrower's standard arrangements for development assistance to the
States of India.
     Section 3.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03.  The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and
9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A, B, C and D of
the Project shall be carried out by each of the Project States pursuant
to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
                               ARTICLE IV
                          Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01.  (a)  The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts E and F of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out
Parts E and F of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but
               in any case not later than nine months after the end
               of each such year, a certified copy of the report of
               such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
               detail as the Association shall have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
               concerning said records, accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association
               has received the audit for the fiscal year in which
               the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made,
               all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
               receipts and other documents) evidencing such
               expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
Page  6
               year, together with the procedures and internal controls
               involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
               support the related withdrawals.
                                ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  Any of the Project States shall have failed to perform any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date of
the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that any of the Project
States will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
     (c)  The Recipient shall have failed to perform any of the
obligations under the Grant Agreement.
     Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that
the events specified in Sections 5.01 (a) and 5.01 (c) of this Agree-
ment shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower.
                               ARTICLE VI
                       Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Asso-
ciation, namely that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by each of the Project States, and is legally binding upon
each of the Project States in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.02.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE VII
              Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary,
Director, Deputy Secretary, or Under Secretary of the Department of
Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is desig-
nated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          The Secretary to the Government of India
          Department of Economic Affairs
          Ministry of Finance
          New Delhi, PIN 110001
          India
          Cable address:                  Telex:
               ECOFAIRS                   953-3166175
               New Delhi
     For the Association:
Page  7
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                  Telex:
               INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA),
               Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC),
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                          197688 (TRT)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               INDIA
               By /s/ Sudhakar Rao
                                               Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               By /s/ Heinz Vergin
                                          Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              South Asia
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil works for          1,900,000          40%
     Parts A, C, D, and
     E of the Project
(2)  Equipment, materials,      700,000          50% of
     vehicles and draft animals                  foreign
     for Parts A, B (a), C, D                    expenditures,
     and E of the Project                        50% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory
                                                 cost) and
                                                 40% of local
                                                 expenditures for
                                                 other items
                                                 procured locally
(3)  Civil works, equipment,  9,000,000          50%
     materials and livestock for
     Parts B (b) and B (c) of the
     Project
Page  8
 (4) Consultants' services,   4,000,000          50%
     (including NGO's
     services), studies, training
     and workshops for Part A
     through Part E of the
     Project
(5)  Project management         200,000          40%
     travel cost
(6)  Consultants' services    1,400,000          100%
     (including NGO's services),
     training and workshops
     for Part F of the Project
(7)  Refunding of Project     1,400,000          Amount due pursuant
     Preparation Advance                         to Section 2.02 (c)
                                                 of this Agreement
(8)  Unallocated                900,000
                             __________
          TOTAL              19,500,000
                             ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term "Project management travel costs" means the travel
costs by the staff of the Forest Departments of the Project States and
MOEF in connection with management and supervision of the Project.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 1,400,000 may be made on account
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after December
31, 1995.
4.   The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
for (a) goods and works under contracts not exceeding $100,000
equivalent; (b) services under contracts not exceeding $100,000
equivalent for employment of consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent
for employment of individual consultants, respectively; (c) training
and fellowships; (d) Project management travel costs; and (e) works
procured under direct contracting, force account, or community
participation, all under such terms and conditions as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are:  (i) to assist in the con-
servation of biodiversity by implementing an ecodevelopment strategy
that would increase collaboration between people in and around the
PAs and PA managers and improve PA management; and (ii) to support
the preparation of future biodiversity projects in India.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modification thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  9
Part A:   Improving PA Management
     (a)  (i)  Strengthening the planning system for PA management
               and protection, and the capacity to implement the
               resulting plans by updating such plans, incorporating
               ecological considerations, broadening participation
               of people in and around the PAs, developing financial
               sustainability strategies and integrating other
               Project initiatives into the PA management plans,
               through provision of NGO and consultants' services,
               studies, workshops, associated travel costs and
               training.
         (ii)  Incorporating PA conservation concerns into regional
               planning and regulation through provision of NGO and
               consultants' services, studies, workshops, associated
               travel costs and training.
     (b)  (i)  Ecosystem and habitat restoration through provision
               of works and associated staff supervision aimed at
               improving the viability of habitats and wildlife in
               and around the PAs.
         (ii)  Strengthening fire, poaching and animal control
               through provision of communications equipment,
               vehicles, draft animals, minor access track
               improvements, fire watch towers, sign boards,
               boundary markers, training in fire management,
               patrolling and wild animal controls.
     (c)  Upgrading amenities for PA staff through provision of works,
equipment, materials and training.
Part B:   Village Ecodevelopment
     (a)  Conducting participatory microplanning and providing
implementation support to the PAs, through provision of NGO and
consultants' services, workshops, materials, training, and asso-
ciated travel.
     (b)  Implementing reciprocal commitments between the PA manage-
ment and people in and around the PAs regarding specific measurable
actions by these people to improve conservation and associated
investments that foster alternative resource uses and livelihoods
for these people through provision of works, small equipment,
materials and livestock.
     (c)  Supporting special programs in and around the PAs, comprising:
          (i)   Plantation activities under joint forest management
                in reserve forests in the immediate vicinity of the
                PAs.
         (ii)   Voluntary relocation option for people in the PAs
                through provision of NGO and consultants' services,
                workshops, materials, associated travel, support to
                households for maintaining their livelihoods in the
                transitional period through employment, asset
                creation, training and activities that support
                cultural continuity.
        (iii)   Supplemental investments that benefit PA biodiversity
                conservation and people in and around the PAs.
Part C:   Education and Awareness, and Monitoring and Research
     (a)  Promoting public support for conservation through environ-
mental education and awareness campaigns and development and imple-
mentation of ecotourism and visitor strategies through NGO and con-
sultants' services, studies, training, workshops, works, equipment
and materials.
Page  10
     (b)  Supporting monitoring and research to improve understanding
of issues and solutions relevant to PA management and interactions
between PAs and people in and around the PAs, through NGO and con-
sultants' services, special studies, works, equipment, training,
workshops, transport and materials.
Part D:   Supporting Project Management for PAs:
     Provision of NGO and consultants' services, workshops, training,
vehicles, office equipment and materials for:
          (i)  Project administration and financial management
               services; and
         (ii)  translation of project documents and dissemination of
               project information.
Part E:   Supporting Project Management for MOEF:
      Provision of NGO and consultants' services, workshops, training,
vehicles, office equipment and materials for:
          (i)  Project administration and financial management services;
         (ii)  translation of project documents and dissemination of
               project information;
        (iii)  policy and strategic framework studies relating to
               financial sustainability, visitor management and
               ecotourism, and ecodevelopment incentives and income
               impacts;
         (iv)  national level implementation support and capacity
               development; and
          (v)  Project implementation reviews.
Part F:   Preparation of Future Biodiversity Projects:
     Provision of NGO and consultants' services, studies, workshops
and training for assisting in preparation of future biodiversity
projects in India.
                        *          *          *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
1.   Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
this Part B:
     (a)  Grouping of Contracts
Page  11
     To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in
bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
     (b)  Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided under paragraph 3 below, works estimated to cost
$20,000 equivalent or more per contract and $450,000 equivalent or less
in the aggregate shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.   National Shopping
          (i) Except as provided under paragraph 4 below, equipment and
              materials estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or less per
              contract, and
         (ii) vehicles estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent
              per contract and not more than  $650,000 equivalent in
              the aggregate, may be procured  under contracts awarded
              on the basis of national shopping procedures in
              accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
              of the Guidelines.
3.   Direct Contracting, Force Account and Community Participation
     Works which meet the requirements of paragraphs 3.7, 3.8 or 3.15
of the Guidelines, and estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent
per contract may be carried out either (i) under community participa-
tion provision, by direct contracting with village communities or NGOs,
(ii) by soliciting quotations from at least three qualified contractors,
or (iii) through force account, in accordance with the provisions of
said paragraphs 3.7, 3.8 or 3.15, respectively, of the Guidelines, and
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.   Direct Contracting
          (i) Satellite imagery and aerial photography estimated to
              cost the equivalent of not more than $100,000,
         (ii) books, periodicals and proprietary computer software
              estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than
              $500,000,
        (iii) elephants and ponies estimated to cost the equivalent
              of about $160,000, and
         (iv) livestock including breeding stock, young animals,
              fertile eggs for hatching, bees and silk worms esti-
              mated to cost about $800,000, may be purchased
              directly from the suppliers, in accordance with
              procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  12
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to (i) the first contract awarded through national
competitive bidding procedures by each of the Project States, and (ii)
each contract for goods or works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II:    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association
shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letter
of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not
apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Association
review shall not apply to (a) terms of reference for such contracts,
(b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising
the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments
to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                             Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3),
(4), (5) and (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time
to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,500,000.
2.   (a)  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
Page  13
     (b)  Each payment (including a payment under a letter of credit)
for an eligible expenditure in an amount equal to or less than the
equivalent of $500,000 shall be made exclusively out of the Special
Account. The Association may from time to time, by notice to the
Borrower, revise the threshold amount specified in the preceding
sentence.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit
or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Associa-
tion shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
               into the Special Account at such intervals as the
               Association shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of
               which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
               such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall,  at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if,  at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Associa-
tion, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of
this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of
the records and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to
the provisions of Section 6.02  of the General Conditions; and
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to
Page  14
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or
in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will  not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General conditions.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                         Implementation Program
1.   To assist in the implementation of Parts E and F of the Project,
the Borrower shall cause MOEF to fill, not later than July 31, 1997,
all the permanent positions required for the Project, in accordancewith staff plan 
agreed with the Association.
2.   The Borrower shall cause MOEF to:  i) furnish to the Association,
not later than September 30 of each year, starting September 30, 1997,
for the Association's comments, a preliminary annual work plan,
including updated Project cost tables, training and contracting plans
and other matters agreed with the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association not later than January 31, of each year, starting January
31, 1998, the final work plan proposals for the coming fiscal year,
taking into account the Association's comments; and (iii) thereafter
implement the final work plans.
3.   Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.06 of the
General Conditions, the Borrower shall cause MOEF to furnish to the
Association by June 30 and December 31 of each year, starting
December 31, 1997, semiannual progress reports on Project implemen-
tation, in a format agreed with the Association.
4.   The Borrower shall cause MOEF, in collaboration with the Project
States, to:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with
Page  15
indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the
Project, and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, and furnish to the Association, not later than March
31, 1999, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof during the period following such date; and
     (c)  review with the Association, by June 30, 1999, or such
later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of the said report and the Association's views on
the matter.
5.   To ensure that MOEF benefits from the training of recipients of
degree fellowship and overseas training under the Project, the
Borrower shall cause MOEF to take the necessary action for (i)
selecting fellowship and overseas training recipients from staff who
would have, at least, five years to retirement, except under
circumstances acceptable to the Association, and (ii) placing such
fellowship and overseas training recipients in job positions where
they could make full use of their training for a minimum of three
years following completion of such training.
6.   The Borrower shall cause MOEF to select the NGOs participating
in the implementation of Parts E and F of the Project in accordance
with criteria agreed with the Association.
