Page  1
                                                        CONFORMED COPY
                              GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF028479 IN
      GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement Related to Credit Number 2916 IN
           Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement
                          (Ecodevelopment Project)
                                  between
                                   INDIA
                                    and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
               acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global
                             Environment Facility
                           Dated September 30, 1996
                                 GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF028479 IN
         GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement related to Credit Number 2916 IN
            GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 30, 1996 between INDIA, acting by its
President (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global
Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the
Global Environment Facility Trust Fund (GEF Trust Fund) by certain
members of the Bank as participants of the GEF.
     WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14,
1991, of the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to
assist in the protection of the global environment and promote thereby
environmentally sound and sustainable economic development;
     (B)  following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements are
continued in place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2
(Resolution No. 94-2) of the Executive Directors of the Bank, dated May
24, 1995, establishing the GEF Trust Fund;
     (C)  the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement, has requested assistance from the resources of the
GEF in the financing of the Project, and the Bank has determined that
Page  2
such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of
Resolution No. 94-2 referred to above;
     (D)  The Recipient has also requested the International Development
Association (the Association) to provide additional funds towards the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement, and by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Recipient (therein referred to as the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to provide such assistance in an aggregate
principal amount equivalent to nineteen million five hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 19,500,000) (the Credit).
     (E)  Parts A, B,  C and D of the Project will be carried out by
the States of Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh,
Rajasthan and West Bengal (the Project States), with the Recipient's
assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Recipient will make
available to the Project States part of the proceeds of the GEF Trust
Fund Grant as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend a GEF Trust Fund Grant (the Grant) to the
Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement
and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Associa-
tion, the Bank and the Project States;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                        General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in paragraph
(b) of this Section (the "General Conditions") constitute an integral
part of this Agreement:
          (i)  Article I;
         (ii)  Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10),
               (11), (15), (18) and (20); 2.02 and 2.03;
        (iii)  Section 3.01;
         (iv)  Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
          (v)  Article V;
         (vi)  Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and
               (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
        (vii)  Section 8.01 (b);
       (viii)  Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08
               and 9.09;
         (ix)  Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
          (x)  Article XI; and
         (xi) Sections 12.01 (c); 12.03, and 12.04.
     (b)  The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
          (i)  a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section
               2.01 to read as follows: "the term "Special Drawing
               Rights" and the symbol "SDR" mean special drawing
               rights as valued by the International Monetary Fund
               in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
         (ii)  the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions,
               other than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and
Page  3
               the last use of such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means
               the Bank except that in Section 6.02, the term "Bank"
               shall also include the International Bank for Recon-
               struction and Development acting in its own capacity;
        (iii)  the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General
               Conditions, means the Recipient;
         (iv)  the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General
               Conditions, means this Agreement;
          (v)  the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General
               Conditions, means the Grant;
         (vi)  the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General
               Conditions, means the Grant Account;
        (vii)  the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
               "Except as the Bank and the Recipient shall otherwise
               agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
               expenditures in the territories of any country which is
               not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or
               services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for
               the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or
               for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to
               the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision
               of the United Nations Security Council taken under
               Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations"; and
       (viii)  a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (j) in
               Section 6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: "an
               extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which any
               further disbursement under the Grant would exceed the
               resources available for disbursement from the GEF Trust
               Fund."
     Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions,
the Recitals to this Agreement, and the Development Credit Agreement (as
such term is defined hereinafter) have the respective meanings therein
set forth, and the following terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement, of even
date herewith, between the Recipient (therein referred to as the
Borrower) and the International Development Association in respect of
the Ecodevelopment Project, as such agreement may be amended from time
to time, and as such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement; and
     (b)  "Grant Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Grant
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
the Grant in an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirteen
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,900,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from
the Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Grant.
     (b)  The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the Reserve Bank of
India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into,
Page  4
and payments out of, the Grant Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Recipient of such later date.
                                ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section,
Sections  3.01, 3.02 and 4.01 of  the Development Credit Agreement
and Schedules  2, 3 and 5 thereto, except Part F and the references
to Part F thereof, are incorporated in the Grant Agreement, with
the following  modifications in said Sections and Schedules 2, 3 and
5 unless the context otherwise requires:
          (i)  the term "Association" shall be read as "Bank";
         (ii)  the term "Credit" and "Credit Account" shall be  read
               as "Grant" and "Grant Account"; and
        (iii)  the term "this Agreement" shall be read as "the
               Development Credit Agreement".
     (b)  So long as any part of the Credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement shall remain outstanding, and unless
the Recipient has been notified otherwise by the Bank:
          (i)  all actions taken, including approvals given, by the
               Association pursuant to any of the Sections of, and
               Schedules to, the Development Credit Agreement
               enumerated in paragraph (a) of this Section shall be
               deemed to be taken or given in the name and on behalf
               of both the Association and the Bank; and
         (ii)  all information or documentation furnished by the
               Borrower to the Association pursuant to the provisions
               of any of such Sections of the Development Credit
               Agreement or Schedules thereto shall be deemed to be
               furnished to both the Association and Bank.
     Section 3.02.  The Recipient and the Bank hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A, B, C and
D of the Project shall be carried out by the Project States pursuant
to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                            Remedies of the Bank
     Section 4.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the events set out in Section 5.01 of the Development
Credit Agreement are specified as additional events, provided,
however, that the term "Association" wherever it appears in such
Section shall be read as "Bank".
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely that all
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement have been fulfilled.
     Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Page  5
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
     Section 5.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have
fulfilled all their obligations hereunder.
     Section 5.04. If the Development Credit Agreement terminates prior
to the termination of this Agreement, the provisions of the Development
Credit Agreement referred to in this Agreement shall continue in full
force and effect between the Recipient and the Bank.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Recipient:
          Secretary to the Government of India
          Ministry of Finance
          Department of Economic Affairs
          New Delhi, India
          Cable address:                  Telex:
                 ECOFAIRS                 353-3166175
                 New Delhi
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                  Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD               197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.        248423 (RCA),
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                           82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    INDIA
                    By /s/ Sudhakar Rao
                                              Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                         AND DEVELOPMENT
                       AND DEVELOPMENT
                    acting as an implementing agency of the
                    Global Environment Facility
Page  6
                    By /s/ Heinz Vergin
                                        Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            South Asia
                               SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the
Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Grant Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works for Parts A,  1,900,000        40%
     C, D and E of the Project
(2)  Equipment,  materials,      700,000        50% of foreign
     vehicles and draft                         expenditures, 50% of
     animals for Parts A,                       local expenditures
     B (a), C, D and E of the                   (ex-factory cost)
     Project                                    and 40% of  local
                                                expenditures for other
                                                items procured locally
(3)  Civil works, equipment,   6,600,000        37%
     materials and livestock for
     Parts B (b) and B (c) of the
     Project
(4)  Consultants' services     4,000,000        50%
     (including NGO's services),
     training and workshops for
     Parts A, B, C, D and E of
     the Project
(5)  Project management          200,000        40%
     travel costs
(6)  Unallocated                 500,000
                               _________
               TOTAL          13,900,000
                              ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Recipient;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Recipient; and
     (c)  the term "Project management travel costs" means the travel
costs by the staff of the Forest Departments of the Project States and
MOEF in connection with management and supervision of the Project.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 1,400,000 may be made on account
Page  7
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after December
31, 1995.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for
(a) goods and works under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equi-
valent; (b) services under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent
for employment of consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent for employ-
ment of individual consultants, respectively; (c) training and
fellowships; (d) Project management travel costs; and (e) works
procured under direct contracting, force account, or community
participation, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Recipient.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                          Grant Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3),
(4) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time
to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided,
however, that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 until
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Grant Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal
to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,500,000.
2.   (a)  Payments out of the Grant Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions
of this Schedule.
     (b)  Each payment (including a payment under a letter of credit)
for an eligible expenditure in an amount equal to or less than the
equivalent of $500,000 shall be made exclusively out of the Grant
Special Account. The Bank may from time to time, by notice to the
Recipient, revise the threshold amount specified in the preceding
sentence.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Grant Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Grant Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit
in the Grant Special Account such amount or amounts as the Bank shall
have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Grant Special Account, the
               Recipient shall furnish to the Bank requests for
               deposits into the Grant Special Account at such
               intervals as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Recipient shall furnish to the Bank the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4
Page  8
               of this Schedule for the payment or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
               basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on
               behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant
               Account and deposit into the Grant Special Account
               such amount as the Recipient shall have requested
               and as shall have been shown by said documents and
               other evidence to have been paid out of the Grant
               Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Grant
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Grant Special
Account, the Recipient shall,  at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if,  at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from
the Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Grant Special Account;
     (c)  if,  at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02  of the General Conditions; and
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Grant Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Grant Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the
Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request;
or (B) deposit into the Grant Special Account (or, if the Bank shall
so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Bank into the Grant Special Account shall be made until the
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
Page  9
amount outstanding in the Grant Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Grant Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
