                         The Inspection Panel




                          ReportandRecommendation
                                             on
                               RequestforInspection



               India Ecodevelopment Project
            Rajiv Ghandi(Nagarahole)NationalPark

                                     (Credit No. 2916-IN)
                          (GEF Trust Fund Grant No, TF028479 IN)
                                       IPN Request RQ98/1




                                       October 21, 1998



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
1818 H Street, NW, Washington, DC 20433, USA
Phone: (202) 458-5200 Fax: (202) 522-0916
Internet: http://www.worldbank.org

                   Tableof Contents

    Executive    Summary ..............................................                             2


1.  INTRODUCTION .....................................                                              5

      TheCreditandGrant.............                                                                5
      TheProject.............                                                                       5
      Basisof thisReport.............                                                               7
  THEREQUESTFORINSPECTION             ..............................................................7
      Allegations..                                                                                 7
      Actions/SolutionsSought..                                                                     8
  BANKMANAGEMENT        RESPONSE........................................................... 8

2. ELIGIBILITY OF THE REQUESTERS AND
    REQUEST       ........................                .......................................
                                                          9.*.*...                                  9
  ELIGIBILITYOFTHEREQUESTERS             .......................................................... 9
  ELIGIBILITYOFTHE REQUEST: PRELIMINARYANALYSIS OF BANK'S
  OBSERVANCEOFITSPOLICIES           ......................................................... 9
    ProjectDesign- Basis.................................................                         11
    AdequateandInformedConsultations?.........................................                    13
    TheIndigenousPeoplesDevelopmentPlan?.................................16
    ToStayor to VoluntarilyResettle?.................................................             18
      WildlifeProtectionAct................................................                       19
      PreferenceNottoRelocate................................................ 21
      HopeRelocationModelWillChangeMinds.............................                            21
      Lackof PropertyorUsufructRights...........................................                 22
      BankManagement        Expectations         ................................................22

3.  GENERAL FINDINGS ................................................. 25

4.  FINDINGS ON ELIGIBILITY OF REQUEST. ........27

5.  FINDINGS ON MANAGEMENT'S OBSERVANCE
    OF BANK'S POLICIES AND THE QUESTION OF
    HAPRM........................................              ...............          ee.. 27

6.  RECOMMENDATION ................................................. 27


Attachment1: LettertoMr.JimMacNeilldatedSeptember2, 1998
fromtheheadsof 10NGOs.

Annex1: RequestforInspection.

Annex2:BankManagement          ResponsetoRequest.

                        The InspectionPanel

                       Reportand Recommendation
                                           on
                           RequestforInspection

                      IndiaEcodevelopmentProject
               Rajiv Ghandi(Nagarahole)NationalPark



                        Executive Summary

i.      The India EcodevelopmentProject has two main thrusts: to
supportmanagementof protectedareasof significantglobalbiodiversity,
and to protectlocalpeople livingin and aroundthese areas. Both are
important goals but there are inherent conflicts as well as potential
complementaritiesbetweenthem. Tribalpeople fromone of the seven
sites-Nagarahole'--filed a Request for Inspection claiming that no
specificindigenouspeoplesdevelopmentplan had been preparedwith
the informed participationof affected indigenous/tribalgroups, and
NGOs involved in their development.They fear that an anticipated
forcefulevictionof the tribalpopulationfromthe projectareawillresult
inthembeing uprootedfromtheir foresthabitats,whichare their socio-
culturallifebase. Theybelievethatcurrentandpotentialharm is a result
of the Bank's ownfailureto followitspoliciesandprocedures.

ii.     Management decided that past experiencewith conservation
projectsin areaswithhumanpressurespointedtowardsa processdesign
project which, after a period of indicativeplanningto establishthe
frameworkand define appropriateprocesses,proceededto get things
done on the ground. This basically involves "...a two phase three-step
process. Indicativeplanning to establishthe main areas of conflict,
appropriateparticipatorymechanisms,eligibletypes of investment,and
effective institutional arrangements was undertaken during project
preparation.      The more detailed consultative microplanning and
Protected Area management planning, during which individual families
and groups express their needs and resolve conflicts in a context with
funding available,will be carriedout during project implementation."
(Emphasisadded)



 This report concerns Nagarahole National Par' and nothing in this report should be
    assumed to apply to any of the other six sites of the Ecodevelopment Project.

                                           2

iii.    Management appears to have been aware of the paucity of
information and research at the appraisal stage. In simply accepting the
fact that objective data and scientific studies were very limited, however,
the International Development Association (IDA) appears to have
allowed much of the debate about the potential conflict between the two
main thrusts of the project to be conducted on the basis of predetermined
views and unsubstantiated claims.

iv.     In spite of the recognized "...history of mistrust between the
tribal people and the government" at this "...most challenging of the
seven sites," Management acknowledges that the Project did not carry
out the "... identification of local preferencesthrough direct consultation"
at the appraisal stage. It appears that GEF guidelines on participation
were not followed either.

v.      Instead of complying directly with the OD 4.20's directives in the
appraisal phase, Management intended that "more detailed consultation"
would follow during implementation. This decision had a number of
consequences. Most important, perhaps, it has denied most of the long-
resident adivasi (tribal peoples) of the park any significant input on the
basic assumptions and concepts underlying the indicative plan, including
the traditional rights of the adivasi to use the resources of the park, the
nature of future microplanning processes, and their role in the future
management of the park.

vi.     Management admits that no separate Indigenous Peoples'
Development Plan was prepared during the appraisal stage, as required
by OD 4.30. If an Indigenous People's Development Plan had been
prepared, it would have further exposed the tension between biodiversity
protection objectives and the condition and aspirations of the indigenous
people at Rajiv Gandhi National Park. It would have enabled significant
input on the basic assumptions and concepts underlying the
Ecodevelopment Project. And it may well have exposedthe weakness of
some of the premises under which the Project was conceived, at least for
this particular park.

vii.    One of these premises, during the indicative planning phase, was
that there is (or would be) a significant demand for relocation.       The
Panel finds that, to date, the overwhelming majority of the resident tribal
population seemsto have opted to stay.

viii.   Another key premise appears also to be in question: namely, that
the tribal population resident in the park have the option to stay or to
leave; and that these are true options, with equal weight and value in
terms of the support they are to receive from pro,ect resources. In fact,
the combination of the 1972 Wildlife Act, the 1997 Supreme Court
decision, official expectations concerning whether the tribals will opt to
stay or leave, and the elimination of their rights to use the land and

                                       3

forestsinwhichtheydwell,takentogether,seemtounderminethereality
ofthe stayoption.

ix.     Inadd:tion,the Panelencountereda profounddifferencebetween
the expectati-is of Managementand those of stateofficialsconcerning
the role aridscope of microplanningand the investmentswhich are to
follow the approval of microplans.           Management states that
"...microplans are required prior to each set of investments at the
village level. (They) must be prepared by, and be agreeable to, the
involved people" ...and (they)... would ultimately cover 100percent of
interested villages... ". State officials were equally unequivocal:
microplanswill not be undertakenfor any of the 58 haadi (villages)
withinthe park.

x.      To date, three microplans have been completed, all for
communitiesoutside the park; and more microplans for communities
outside the park are planned. Yet, although it appears that, at the
moment,the overwhelmingmajorityof the adivasi (some 97 percent)
wish to remainin their communitieswithinthe park,no microplansfor
communitieswithinthe park are underpreparationto date and none is
foreseen. There is thus a growing imbalancebetweenthe apparent
choices of the people and the microplanningprocess to guide project
investments.    In order to comply with IDA policy and monitor
compliancewith loan covenants,it is urgentthat thoroughsupervision
shouldcorrectthis andavoidseriousfutureimbalance.

xi.     The Panel findsthat certainkey premisesunderlyingthe design
phase of the Project at the Nagaraholesite are flawed, as a result of
which there is a significantpotential for serious harm. It therefore
recommendsthatthe ExecutiveDirectorsauthorizean investigationinto
this case.




This reportprovides(1) an Introduction (2) Discussionon Eligibility,
(3)Findings,and (4)Recommendationof the InspectionPanel("Panel")
on whetheror not thereshouldbe an investigation("Recommendation")
into allegationsmade in the above-referencedRequest for Inspection
("Request"). AnnexI containsthe Request. Annex2 containsthe IDA
ManagementResponsetothe Request.




                                  4

1.       INTRODUCTON

1.       On April 3, 1998, the Panel received a Request from an
organization called the N garahole BudakattuJanara Hakkusthapana
                                             2

Samithy(NBJHS)represening tribal peoplelivingin an area knownas
Rajive GandhiNational Park, Nagarahole,KarnatakaState, India (the
Requesters). The Requestersclaim they have and will suffer harm
              3

becauseIDA Managementhas violatedIDApoliciesand proceduresin
the preparationof theIndiaEcodevelopmentProject(theProject).

2.       On April3, 1998,4ie Panelnotifiedthe ExecutiveDirectorsand
the IDA Presidentof receipt of the Request (meaning"Registration"
underthe Panel's Operatin Procedures).              4



The Creditand Grant

3.      On September5, I996, IDA's ExecutiveDirectorsapproveda
credit of SDR 19.5 million (US$ 28 million equivalent) to the
Governmentof India (GQI) to improvepark managementand village
ecodevelopmentin sevenareas,includingthe Nagarahole(RajivGhandi)
National Park in Karnataka.On the same date, the ExecutiveDirectors
for the InternationalBank for Reconstructionand Development(the
Bank) 'pproved,withthe Bankactingas implementingagency,a Global
EnvironmentFacility (GtF) Trust Fund Grant to India of SDR 13.9
million(US$20millionequivalent). Theprojecthad beenendorsedby
the Chief ExecutiveOfficerof GEF. The credit becameeffectiveon
December27, 1996.


TheProject

4.      India is one of tIie twelve so-calledmega-diversitycountries,
estimatedto containnearl two-thirdsof theplanet'sbiodiversity.Itsten
biogeographiczones repr sent a broad range of ecosystems. Withthe
Project, the GOI, IDA and GEF proposeto supportmanagementof



2The areais spelt bothasNagaraholeorNagarhole.

3This report concerns NagaraholeNational Park and nothingInthis report should be
     assumed to apply to any of the other six sites of the Er-development Project

4See The InspectionPanel,Operating Procedures (August1994)atparm17.

                                            5

protected areas of significantglobal biodiversityand to involve local
peoplelivinginand aroundtheseareasinplanningandimplementation.

 5.     The Requesters come from the Nagarahole or Rajiv Gandhi
NationalPark in the KarnatakaState. Thissite is a criticallyimportant
componentof the nationalsystemof protectedareas. It is reportedto
haveoneof the highestproductivitiesof animalbiomassintheworldand
contains significantpopulations of tigers, elephants,gaur, and many
others.

6.      ManagementconsidersNagaraholeto bethe mostdifficultof the
sevensitesincludedin the EcodevelopmentProjectin termsof conflicts
betweenlocal inhabitantsand protectedareas.5 There are over 6,000
people within the park, including mostly indigenous inhabitantsor
tribals. The Requesters,whopreferthe nameadivasior "originalforest
dwellers," belong to communitieslike Jenu Kurubas, Yeranas and
Soligas. Thereare 58such communities(haadi)representingover1,550
familieswithinthe park.

7.      Accordingtothe President'sMemorandum(MoP)6:

        "The project'shumanbeneficiaries,tribalpeoples,and forestfringevillagers,
        belong to the poorest sections of society. About 39 percent of the
        beneficiariesaretribal. Tribaldevelopmentconcernsare integratedunderthe
        rubric of social impact,participationand equity,ratherthan as a subsidiary
        tribal developmentplan or component.Theprojectalso incorporatesspecific
        measuresto safeguardtheinterestsofthe landlessandwomen."

8.      TheMOPfurtherclarifiesthe project'sgeneralstrategy:(Para12)

        "Usingthe ecodevelopmentstrategyto foster participatorymanagement,the
        governmentisnow beginningto addressthe specialthreatsto biodiversityin
        protectedareas. Ecodevelopmentaimsto conservebiodiversityby addressing
        both "theimpactoflocalpeoplein theprotectedareasand theimpactofthe
       protected areas on local people. Ecodevelopmenthas two main thrusts:
        improvementof PA7 managementandinvolvementof localpeople."

9.      TheMOPalsodealsclearlywiththe issueofrelocation(Para33):

        "The projectwouldprovidesupportfor a participatoryprocessto plan and
        implement'voluntary relocation'. Relocationunder the projectwould be
        voluntary'in the sensethatit wouldbedrivenbythe wishesof localpeople.'
        Planningwould takeplace in the contextof optionsthat would not invoke
        relocation. Relocationwouldbeto landson theperipheryof thePA's rather
        than to distantnon-forestland. Theforest departmentwouldnot cause or
        carryout involuntaryrelocationintheprojectareas. Allvoluntaryrelocation


5See ManagementResponseattacted.

6MemomndumandRecommendationofthePresident     (P-6953-IN)ofAugust3,19)6(MOP),
     CreditandProjectSummary.

7ProtectedAreas(PA).

                                        6

        planningand implementationassociatedwiththeprojectwouldbe consistent
        with applicableBank guidelines,and implementationwould require prior
        Bank approval. In additiontoprovidingsupportfor voluntaryrelocation,the
        project would include special efforts to identify and provide village
        ecodevelopmentinvestments(subjectto eligibilitycriteria)for people whodo
        not wishtorelocate." (Emphasisadded)


Basis of this Report

 10.    This report is based on the Request, the Response, and additional
information provided by the Requesters, IDA Management, local NGOs
and Indian officials.

11.     In addition, the Panel considered information obtained during Mr.
Jim MacNeill's (Inspector) visit to Delhi and the project site during
August 30 - September 4, 1998.' Before and after the visit, the Inspector
consulted with the Executive Director representing the Government of
India.

12.     The purpose of the Inspector's visit was to seek information to
help the Panel determine the eligibility of both the Requesters and the
matters complained of in the Request. During his visit, the Inspector met
with the Requesters and representatives of local NGOs, and with tribal
people in several different villages (haadi). He also consulted with the
Director of Project Tiger and officials in the Department of Economic
Affairs (DEA) in New Delhi, with senior Karnataka State officials in
Bangalore, and with senior and other Forestry officials in the park.9


                      THE REQUESTFORINSPECTION


Allegations

13.     The Requesters claim that the project, as designed, failed to show
any tribal population as living in the "core areas" of Nagarahole National
Park. Yet, they state, there are 58 tribal settlements inside the park with a
population of about 6,145 who belong to different communities like Jenu
Kurubas, Betta Kurubas, Yeravas, and Soligas. They also claim that
there is no specific indigenous peoples development plan prepared with
the informed participation of affected indigenous/tribal groups, and
NGOs involved in their development. Furthermore, they fear that an
anticipated forceful eviction of the tribal population from the project area



8Mr.MacNeillwasaccompaniedby Mr.AlvaroUmafla,Panel memberandChairmanfrom
    August1997to July1998,whenhisfouryeartermonthe InspectionPanelexpired

9The PanelwishestothanktheRequestersand otherNGOsfortheircooperationandassistance
    in arrangingmeetingsandvisitswithaffectedtribalpeople. It alsowishestothankthe
    ExecutiveDirectorrepresentingIndiaand officialsofthe GOIandKarnatakaState
    Government fortheirassistance.

                                         7

will result in them being uprooted from their forest habitats, which are
their socio-cultural life base.

 14.    The Requesters believe that current and potential harm is a result
of IDA's own failure to follow its policies and procedures, citing the
following: OD 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples; and possibly OD 4.30 on
Involuntary Resettlement; as well as possibly OD 4.36 on Forestry.'°


Actions/Solutions Sought

1S.     In short, the Requesters ask for an investigation into their claims
in order to ensure that tribals resident in the Park will have a real choice
on whether to remain in their communities or to resettle voluntarily
outside the park.


                       BANK MANAGEMENTRESPONSE


16.     On May 5, 1998,the Panel receivedthe Management Response to
the Request. (Annex 2 of this Report). In summary, Management claims
that it complied with all relevant policies and procedures in the
preparatien of the project, and that it intends to comply with all relevant
policies and procedures during implementation.




10Suggestedby thePanelinits"NoticeofRegistration".

                                       8

2.      ELIGIBILITY OF THE REQUESTERS AND
REQUEST

17.    Thissectionwillfirstexaminethe eligibilityof the Requesters.It
will then discussthe eligibilityof the substanceof the Requestfor an
investigation. To do this, the assertionsmade in the Requestand IDA
ManagementResponsearecomparedandexamined.


                   ELIGIBILITY OF THE REQUESTERS


18.    ThePanel findsthatthe Requestersare eligibleto file a Request
in accordancewith the Resolutionestablishingthe Panel, subsequent
"Clarifications" and the Panel's "Operating Procedures. " Based on its
field visit, the Panel is satisfiedthat the Requestersare and represent
tribal projectaffectedpeople in the Park; that they have broughttheir
concernsto the attentionof Management;andthat they are not satisfied
withtheresponsestheyhavereceived.


  ELIGIBILITY OF THE REQUEST: PRELIMINARY ANALYSIS OF BANK'S

                     OBSERVANCE OF ITS POLICIES


19.    The remainderof this report deals with the eligibility of the
Request itself pursuant to the Resolution. Before making a
recommendationto the ExecutiveDirectors,the Panel is requiredunder
the Resolutiontodeterminewhetherit hasa reasonablebeliefthat:

       (a)     there is preliminaryevidencethat primafacie the Bank
               hasfailedtofollowitspoliciesand procedures;and,

       (b)     if so,whetherthere is preliminaryprimafacie evidenceof
               allegedmaterialharm; and,

       (c)     if so, whether such harmprima facie appears to result
               from the Bank's failure to follow its polices and
               procedures.




                                    9

                          OPERATIONALPOLICIES

20.     The Requestersallege violations by IDA Managementof its
OperationalPolicyon IndigenousPeoples(OD4.20).The issuesraised
also relate to some generalprovisionsof the InvoluntaryResettlement
(OD 4.30) and Forestry Policy (OP 4.36). Because the Indigenous
Peoplespolicyprovidesdetailto suchgeneralizations,observanceof OD
4.20 is the focalpoint of the discussionbelow,referringwhererelevant
to the othertwopolicies.

21.     Paragraph5 of the IDA's far reachingOD 4.20 on Indigenous
Peoplesstatesthat while no singledefinitioncancapturetheir diversity,
indigenous peoples "...are commonly among the poorest segments of a
population.They engagein economicactivitiesthatrange fromshifting
agriculturein or near foreststo wage laboror even small-scalemarket-
orientedactivities." The OD furthersuggeststhat theycanbe identified
by certain characteristics,including a close attachmentto ancestral
territoriesandto thenaturalresourcesintheseareas,self-identificationas
membersof a distinctculturalgroup,an indigenouslanguage,customary
social and political institutions, and mainly subsistence-oriented
production.

22.    As for identifyingindigenouspeople,paragraph15enjoinsIDA
to assess the legal status of indigenousgroups, as reflected in the
country'sconstitutionand legislation,with particularattentionto their
rights to use and developthe lands that they occupy and the natural
resourcesvitalto theirsubsistenceandreproduction.

23.    Paragraph6 clarifiesIDA's broad objectivetowardsindigenous
people. It is "...to ensure that the development process fosters full
respectfor their dignity,humanrights, and culturaluniqueness." More
specifically, it goes on, "...the objective at the center of this directive is
toensurethatindigenouspeoplesdonot sufferadverseeffectsduringthe
*developmentprocess,particularlyfromBank-financedprojects,and that
theyreceiveculturallycompatiblesocialandeconomicbenefits."

24.    Indeed, according to paragraph 8, "...identifying local
preferences through direct consultation,incorporationof indigenous
knowledge into project approaches, and appropriate early use of
experiencedspecialistsare core activitiesfor any projectthat affects
indigenouspeoplesandtheirrightstonaturalandeconomicresources."

25.    In the case of an investmentproject that affects indigenous
peoples, paragraph 13 enjoins the borrower to prepare "...an indigenous
peoplesdevelopmentplan thatis consistentwiththeBank'spolicy." Any
project that affects indigenous peoples "...is expected to include
componentsor provisionsthat incorporatesucha plan." Whenthe bulk
                                     10

of the direct project beneficiariesare indigenouspeople, the Bank's
concernswould be addressedby the projectitselfand the provisionsof
this ODwouldthus applytothe projectinitsentirety.

26.     Paragraph 17 goes on to state that "...the indigenouspeoples
developmentplan or project componentshould be developed during
project preparation ...and...the Bank should assist the borrower in
preparingterms of referenceand shouldprovide specializedtechnical
assistance."

27.     With regard to OD 4.30 (InvoluntaryResettlement),we agree
with Managementthat "...the legal covenantsare unambiguous:there
will be no involuntaryresettlement."" Also, the relevant parts of OD
4.36onForestrywouldappearto be coveredadequatelybyprovisionsof
OD4.20.


Project Design- Basis

28.     The Project has two main thrusts: to support managementof
protectedareas of significantglobalbiodiversity,and to involvelocal
people living in and aroundthese areas. Both are importantgoalsbut
there are inherent conflicts as well as potential complementarities
betweenthem.

29.     The Projecthas significantrisks and Managementstates that it
hasalwaysbeen openaboutthese. It has always"...recognizedthat the
Project has significantrisks related to participation,trust, realism of
expectations,regionalpressures,extentof implementationcapacityand
level of governmentsupport."" The August 1996Memorandumand
                                2

Recommendationof the President(MOP) stressedthat "...the village
ecodevelopmentcomponenthasthe highestlevelof risk becauseit uses
novel planning processes and becausethere is little hard data on the
impact of comparableprograms." It listedthe primaryrisk factors as:
"...pressures of populationgrowth and commercialinterests... dangers
of unrealistic expectations...       time and commitment to achieve
participationand trust... limitationsof implementationcapacityand...
inadequatemanagementsupport."" It didnot listuncertaintiesaboutthe
propertyor use rights of peopleinsideprotectedareas as a risk factor,
althoughtheyappearto bea fundamentalsourceof conflict.

30.     Management states further that it "...well understood that it
would be a controversialProject largely because of divergent views
comingfromthosewithinterestsin biodiversityandthosewithinterests


11Seeatached"ManagementResponseto InspectionPanel,May5, 1998,paragraph2.

12[bid,paragraph
              8.

1
3MOP,Paa 35

                                     11

in expandingpeople'saccessto resources."'4 Moreover,it acknowledges,
"Nagarhole...is the most challenging of the seven sites in the Project
becauseof a historyof mistrustbetweentribal peopleand government.
The Project was designedto help addressthese longstandingproblems.
We thinkthat the issueis not thatthe concernsof tribalpeoplehavenot
been listenedto or understood,but that the solutionsare very complex
and cannotbeeasilyresolved.""

31.      In light of this appreciation,the Panel has been struck by
Management'sapparentfailure to require objectivedata and scientific
studies to support many of the critical assumptionsunderlying the
project. Examplesabound.

32.      There is, for example,a widespreadview shared by the Forest
Departmentof Karnatakathatthe tribalpopulationlivinginsidethe park
constitutesthe main sourceof biodiversitydegradationin the protected
area. Whenthe Panelrequestedstudieswhichanalyzethe impactof the
tribalpopulationonthe ecologyof the region,it wasinformedthat none
hadbeenundertaken.

33.      The tribals live at or below mere subsistenceand are denied
accessto manyofthe resourcesofthe park. Theyhavenograzingrights,
for example,and own no cattle. Yet,the larger populationsliving in
peripheralcommunitiesgrazethousandsof headof cattleinthe park. All
agreed that this was a major threat. Yet, when the Panel requested
studiesof the comparativeimpactsof tribalandperipheralcommunities,
it wasinformedthatnonehadbeenundertaken.

34.      Another examplerelates to the partially constructedand now
interrupteddevelopmentof a luxurytouristhoteland resort in the park
by the TajGroup. Whenaskedfora studyof the comparativeimpactsof
tribalslivingat subsistencelevelsandhotelguestslivingat international
luxurylevels,thePanelwasinformedthatnonehadbeenundertaken.

35.      There is apparently considerable anecdotal evidence of the
recovery of wildlife populationsduring the past decades since the
nationalparkwasestablished.Again,however,nobaselinestudiesexist
andintegratedstudiesof evolutionofwildlifepopulationsarelacking.

36.     Management appears to have been aware of the paucity of
informationand researchat the appraisalstage.'6                   In simplyaccepting
the fact that objectivedata and scientificstudies were very limited,
however,IDA appearsto have allowedmuch of the debate about the


14Ibid,covering letter, page2.


15Ibid.

16See Staff Appraisal Report (14914-lN) of August 3, 1996 (SAR) paras18-21.


                                            12

potential conflict between the two main thrusts of the project to be
conducted on the basis of predeterminedviews and unsubstantiated
claims.


Adequate and InformedConsultations?

37.     In their claim,the Requestersstatethat they were not consulted
during project appraisal as required by OD 4.20.                    In a longer
supplementaryletterto Mr.MacNeilldatedSeptember2,'7theyelaborate
further. They say that the: "...Jenu Kuruba,Betta Kuruba and other
adivasi peoples (scheduledtribes) are the indigenouspeople of the
territory that presently constitutesthe RajivGandhiNational Park and
we have never been consultedprior and/or during the design of the
Eco-developmentproject.We thinkthat is a violationof our basicright
to determineour futureand to opposea projectthat wethinkwillhavea
negative impact on our lives, livelihood and on the survival of our
people."sl

38.     In addition,theystatethataccordingtoParagraph15of OD4.20,
IDA should have assessedthe legal status of indigenousgroups, as
reflected in the country's constitutionand legislation,with particular
attentionto the rightsof indigenouspeopleto useand developtheirland
(suchas forests,wildlifeandwater).19

39.     The Requestersclaimto have broughtthese issuesto the IDA's
attentionfor the first timein October1994and repeatedlyin 1996. On
pages3 and 4 of theirletterof September2, 1998to Mr.MacNeill,they
state:

        (a) On October27, 1994,several'NGOswroteto the WorldBank'sIndia
        Missionprotestingthe projectproposalmadeby the DeputyConservatorof
        Forests & Wildlife ...In response, in a letter dated December 24, 1994
        [staffl]..statedthat "...the issues could be addressedthrough open and
       constructivedialogueswiththeKamatakaForestDepartnentandotherNGOs
       overthesucceedingmonthswhentheprojectwastobe finalized."As of June
        1996,"...there haven'tbeenanyknowninitiativesonthe part of WorldBank
        ... In the meanwhile,"severalprotestsfromthe concernedpeopleandNGOs
       havebeenfiledwiththeWorldBank,withno responsesat all."

       (b) On April 1, 1996,at a WB/GEF-NGOconsultationin Washington,Ms.
       Anita Cheriah presented"...an analyticalreport on the contradictionsand



7 SeeAttachment1. LettertoMr.JimMacNeilldatedSeptember2, 1998fromtheheadsof 10
    NGOs.

  Ibidpage2.

19Ibidpage5.Areadingofsomeofthelegalfilesrevealsthattheimportanceofthiswas
    acknowledgedatanearlystage,notingthatbothODs4.20and4.30explicitlyrecognize
    the"customary"and"non-formal"   rightsoftribalorindigenous
                                                            peoplesandcallfortheir
    recognitioninbothResettlement  andIndigenousPeoplesDevelopmentPlans.

                                         13

        contrastsof the proposedplan, especiallywith regard to the WB's own
        directivesandprinciples.The WBwasnotconcerned."

        (c) On June 1, 1996, the World Bank's New Delhi office organizeda
        consultationon theproposedProjectwheretheparticipatingNGOswereto be
        identifiedby Centrefor ScienceandEnvironment,NewDelhi,the designated
        focal pointby GEFfor SouthAsia. "Thehonestlist furnishedby CSE was
        almosttotallyforegone(only2 invitedwithhoursshort-noticeto ensureeven
        their own participation)and...even the CSE was not extendeda formal
        invitation to the meeting. (Reference:CSE's protest letter to the Social
        DevelopmentUnit,WorldBank,dated13thJune,1996.)

        (d) On June 17, 1996, the Budakattu Krishikkara Sangha, and seven
        concernedNGOs withdeep involvementwith the tribal peopleof the area,
        registeredtheir protests about the project. In response, staff suggesteda
        consultationbetweenthe Forest Departmentand the complainants. "The
        concernedtribalpeoplewerenot readyforthisconsultationon thegroundthat
        they couldnot accepta planfor whichtheyneverhad beenconsultedand the
        ForestDepartmentwouldnotgive off theirprerogatives."In her letterdated
        June 18, 1996to CORD,"[Staff]admitsthat no PPF or project-supported
        participatorymicroplanninghasyettakenplacebut hopedfor it shortly.What
        followedwas that she had a flying visit to Nagaraholeand held discussions
        onlywiththeforestofficialsandnotwiththepeople."

        (e) TheNagaraholeHakkuSamrakshaSamithyfiledtheir officialprotestwith
        the WorldBankon 26thSeptember,1996"...to whichtherewas no response
        at all. Until now, this extensively based Tribal People's Organization
        especiallyin the project areaand havingnationallinkagesand recognition,
        wasneverconsultedbytheWorldBankor theForestOfficials."

        (f) The Forest Departnent and the World Bank's India office"...seem to
        have... conspired...toenlistNGOswhofactuallydidn'thaveanyinvolvement
        with the tribals...The visit of WB AppraisalTeam duringthe firstweek of
        July, 1998,was intimatedonlyto (certain)'enlisted' NGOs,and there were
        deliberateeffortsto keepawaytheothers."

        (g) The WorldBank"...remaineddeaftoprotestsairedby concemedNGOs
        andtribalmovementsnationwide."Anexampleis"...the joint protestplaced
        duringGEFAssemblyinthefirstweekof April,1998."

40.     Management rejects the claim that meaningful and informed
participation has not taken place. To substantiate its claim that adequate
consultation has been carried out, Management states that: "At
Nagarhole 5 NGOs were involved either in workshops or studies: Indian
Institute   of   Public Administration,         Mysore     Resettlement and
Development Association (MYRADA), Society for Promotion of
Wasteland Development (SPWD), SETT and Bharatiya Agro-Industries
Foundation (BAIF). Discussions were held by staff with a few others."
Elaborating further, Management mentions Participatory Rural Appraisal
(PRA) at 14 villages, "one of them inside the park." It mentions a visit
in November 1994 by an IDA social scientist to three villages inside the
park and three villages outside. (The Aide Memoire of their mission
[Nov 28, 1998] identified the need for additional studies and the need to
expand the studies to tribals within the parks.) Management also

                                        14

mentionsa SocialImpactAssessmentin which ten villages,mostlyon
the parkboundary,weresampled. It refersto an Ecodevelopmentstudy
usingPRAmethodsinninevillagesinsideandnearthe boundariesofthe
park. It also refersto a stakeholderanalysis,a fieldmissionand further
visitsto 10villages.     20


41.        Management considers that consultation, therefore, was
"adequateand informed."2' TheRequestersdo not sharethis view. Nor
is it sharedby severaldozentribal leadersand villagerswithwhomthe
Inspectormet and talkedduring hisvisit. Theconsultationrequiredby
OD 4.20 is clearly meant to involve the "...informed participation of the
potential affectedpeoplesthemselves." It is not meantto be restricted
mainlyto institute-typeNGOs, as valuableas their viewsmaybe, as a
                                       22

result of their surveys of potentially affected peoples.                In fact,
consultationwith NGOs is the subjectof anotherOD entirely,namely
OD 14.70 "Involving Nongovernmental Organizations in Bank-
SupportedActivities."

42.        Concerning"informed consultation,"the Requesterspoint out
that the SAR was the only documentthey receivedfrom IDA. The
tribals requestedthat it be translatedintotheir locallanguage,Kannada,
but this was never done.                Informationdisclosure in a language
understandableto the affected people is an obvious prerequisiteto
"cmeaningfuland informed"consultation,and theyviewthis as a serious
violationof the 1993Bank's DirectiveonDisclosureof Information.

43.        Managementacknowledgesthat bythe end of 1994,the needfor
additionalstudies,inparticularthoserelatedto the tribalpopulation,was
identified. Unfortunately,however,in spiteofthe recognized"historyof
mistrust betweenthe tribal people and the government"at this "most
challenging of the seven sites," the Project did not carry out the
"identificationof localpreferencesthroughdirectconsultation"withthe
affectedpeoplethemselvesat the appraisalstage. Instead,Management
chosetokeepthe projectdesignphaseat a levelof generalitythatdidnot
allowthe real problemsto appear,in particularthe inherentconflictsat
Nagarahole.Insteadof complyingdirectlywiththe OD4.20's directives
in the appraisal phase, Management intended that "more detailed
consultation"wouldfollowduringimplementation.            23


44.        Process Design. Management claims that its past experience
with conservation projects in areas with human pressures pointed
towards "...a process design project which, after a period of indicative

20 lbid, paragraph 15.

21Ibid,paragraph16.


22Interestingly,the legalfilesrefertothemas "eliteNGOs".

23Ibidpara 14. Thismaynowbe indoubt. Seediscussionof microplanningbelow.

                                            15

planning to establish theframework and define appropriate processes,
proceeded to get things done on the ground "24 This basically involves
"...a two phase three-step process. Indicative planning to establish the
main areas of conflict, appropriate participatory mechanisms, eligible
types of investment, and effective institutional arrangements was
undertaken during project preparation. The more detailed consultative
microplanning and Protected Area management planning, during which
individualfamilies and groups express their needs and resolve conflicts
in a context with funding available, will be carried out during project
implementation."25 (Emphases added.)

45.      The decision to defer the specific actions required by OD 4.20
from the appraisal stage to the implementation stage has a number of
consequences. Most important, perhaps, it has denied most of the long-
resident adivasi (tribal peoples) of the park any significant input on the
basic assumptions and concepts underlying the indicative plan that
currently constitutes the Ecodevelopment Project. These assumptions
and concepts concern for example, "the main areas of conflict"2                6

including the traditional rights of the adivasi to use the resources of the
park. They concern "appropriate participatory mechanisms"27 for the
future processes of microplanning and their role therein. They concern
"eligible types of investment."28 They concern "effective institutional
arrangements"29 and the tribals' role in the future management of the
park.     IDA's past experience may well indicate that a step-by-step
"process design project' is the best way to proceed. But it does appear
that, in this case, it preempted participation in decisions on a number of
basic questions, decisions which establish at least a part of the
framework within which the second phase microplanning will take place.


The Indigenous Peoples Development Plan?

46.      In their claim, the Requesters state that no "Indigenous People
Development Plan" was prepared for this project as specifically required
by paragraph 13 of the above mentioned operational directive 4.20. In a
longer supplementary letter to Mr. MacNeill dated September 2,            30they
add that if any such plan has been prepared, IDA and GOI prepared it


24 Seeattached"ManagementResponsetoInspectionPanel,May5, 1998,paragraph4.

25 Ibidparagraph14.

26 SeeattachedManagementResponse,para 14,whichsetsouttheintendedcoverageof
      indicativeplanning.

27 Ibid.

28Ibid.


29Ibid.


30SeeattachedlettertoMr.JimMacNeilldatedSeptember2, 1998fromtheheadsof 10NGOs.

                                       16

"...without the contribution, consent and knowledge of the people
concerned."

47.       Management admits that no separate Indigenous Peoples'
DevelopmentPlanhasbeenprepared. "Tribaldevelopmentconcerns,"it
states,"areintegratedundertherubricof socialimpact,participation,and
equity, rather than as a subsidiary tribal development plan or
component."Moreover,it states that since "...over half of the project
beneficiariesare tribal peopleand all areashave significantnumbersof
tribal people, the provisions of the OD would apply to the entire
Project.3'

48.       If anIndigenousPeople'sDevelopmentPlanhad beenprepared
fortheNagaraholesiteduringthe years1995and 1996,itwouldhave
furtherexposedthetensionbetweenbiodiversityprotectionobjectives
andthe conditionandaspirationsofthe indigenouspeopleatRajiv
GandhiNationalPark. It wouldhaveenabledsignificantinputonthe
basicassumptionsand conceptsunderlyingthe EcodevelopmentProject.
Andit mightwellhaveexposedthe weaknessof someof thepremises
underwhichthe Projectwasconceived,at leastforthis particularpark.
Oneofthesepremisesis dealtwithbelow,namelythattherewasa
significantdemandforrelocationandthatalternativeoptionswere
availableforthosewishingtoremainlivinginsidethe park.

49.       Theseconcerns,amongothers,are addressedin the "Alternative
People's Plan" attachedto the Request.Thisplan was presentedto the
Bank at a meetingon August9, 1996,as a basis for dialoguebut, the
Requestersclaim,theyhavehadnoresponse.

50.      The Requesters claim that this plan reflects the results of
extensive consultation with and participation of the adivasi (tribal)
peoples residentin the Rajiv GandhiNational Park, a claim that the
Inspectorwas able to substantiatein part during his visits to several
villages(haadi)on September2 and 3, 1998. To the extentthat it does,
it wouldappearto warrantat least someconsiderationas IDAstruggles
"...to ensure that the developmentprocessfostersfull respect for their
dignity,humanrights,andculturaluniqueness."

51.      Late discussions with Management established that the
"AlternativePeople's Plan" wasreceivedas claimedby the Requesters
on August 9, 1996. Management admits that this Plan was not
consideredduringthe preliminaryphase,as mightbe expectedunderthe
OD. It has informedthe Panel,however,that it intendsto considerit
laterwithinthe contextof developingthe PA ManagementPlan. "It is


31OD 4.20, par. 13 says:"Whenthe bulk of the directprojectbeneficiariesare indigenous
     people,the Bank'sconcernswouldbe addressedbythe projectitselfand theprovisionsof
     this ODwouldthusapplyto theprojectinitsentirety.

                                        17

within this PA Management framework that proposals such as the
People's Plan, attached to the Request, as well as other proposals from
other groups, will be debated and the conflicts addressed."3               2



To Stay or to VoluintarilyResettle?

52.        As noted earlier, there are over 6,000 adivasi ("original forest
dwellers"), representiny over 1,550 families, living in some 58 villages
or "haadi" within the park boundaries. They belong to communities like
the Jenu Kurubas, Yeranas and Soligas. The Requesters fear that the
Ecodevelopment Project will place these families in a position where
they ultimately have no choice but to relocate outside the park. Indeed,
they suspect that in not mentioning "...any tribal population as living in
the 'core areas' of Nagarahole National Park," IDA's report confirms an
intention to insist on "...rehabilitation of tribals from the core areas by
developing 'voluntary reallocation opportunities' for people".... And
they feel that the concept of ".. .local people is used ambiguously giving
convenience for misinterpretation and thus for the dislocation of the
tribals forcefully."

53.        Discussions with Management reveal that the fundamental
premise underlying the Ecodevelopment Project is that the population
resident in the park, including all the adivasi, have a choice to stay or
leave. They can choose to stay in their communities within the park, or
they can choose to voluntarily resettle in communities adjacent to but
outside the park. Moreover, the Project is based on the further premise
that these two options are true options. That is, they have equal weight
and value in terms of the support they are to receive from project
resources.       Indeed, Management informed the Panel that budgetary
allocations for investments to support either option would be driven
entirely by the choices made. That is, for example, if 50 families chose
to leave and 1,500 families chose to stay, the aggregate allocation of
project resources would reflect those choices.

54.       According to the Management Response, the language of the
SAR and the legal covenants "are unambiguous" on this question. They
state clearly that the Project States "...shall ... not carry out any
involuntary resettlement for any people resident within the PAs." They
also state that, "Any proposals for voluntary relocation of people
under...the Project shall be prepared and implemented in accordance with
criteria agreed with the Association and the Bank, and after prior
approval of the Association and the Bank."3            3




32 See attached "Management Response to Inspection Panel, May 5, 1998, paragraph 20.


33Project Agreement Scheduleparas. 5 (a), 5 (c), and 5(d). See also the Minutes of Negotiation
     para. 18,which refers to the SAR Annex 20.

                                             18

55.      Concerningthe 'stay option', the covenants appear similarly
clear. They direct that, "Each of the Project States shall prepare in
accordancewith proceduresand guidelinesagreedwith the Association
andthe Bankan indicativelist of ecodevelopmentinvestmentsfor people
opting to remain within the PAs, and shall includesuch people in the
village ecodevelopment activities under ...the Project." (Emphasis
added). 34


56.      Concerningthe balancebetweenthe two options,the SARstates
that "...relocationunderthe projectwillbevoluntaryin the sensethat it
wouldbe drivenbythe wishesof the localpeopleandplanningwilltake
place in the context of options that would not involve relocation."
(Emphasisadded)

57.      As clear evidencethat Managementintends to adhere to this
"conditionality"(Management'sword),theycitethe factthat,"...prior to
appraisal, the Similipal site in Orissa was dropped from the Project
becausethere were doubts about whethera recentrelocationof people
had followedwhat were to becomethe agreed criteria for voluntary
relocationundertheproject."   35


58.      Whilethe intent of the aboveseemsclear enough,the realityon
the ground,as witnessedby the Inspector,doesnot appearto supportit.
Thetwooptionsdonot infactappearto havethe sameweightandvalue.
The voluntaryrelocationoptionis very real. For historicaland other
reasons,however,the stayoptionappearstobe verytenuous,to thepoint
perhapsof not being a real optionat all. Thereare severalreasonsfor
this.


WildlifeProtectionAct.

59.      One reason is the WildlifeProtectionAct of 1972. It governs
twobasiccategoriesof protectedareas:sanctuariesandnationalparks.

60.      Sanctuaries. People can continue to live within sanctuaries.
Under the Act, a "Collector" is authorized "...to inquire into, and
determinethe existence,natureand extentof the rightsof anypersonin
or over the land comprisedwithinthe limits of the sanctuary." Such
persons are then requestedto prepare a written claim specifyingthe
natureand extentof sucha right. TheCollectorcanthenadmitor reject
the claim. If the claimis rejected,appealscanbemadethroughthe legal
systemallthewaytothe SupremeCourt.




34Ibid.

35 SeeattachedManagementResponsc,paragaph7.

                                      19

61.       National Parks. However, state governments cannot give
permissionfor peopleto livewithina nationalpark. Since 1972,most
state governmentshavenot enforcedthe Act,by forcingpeopleto leave
the parks.        To do so would be quite difficult, both socially and
politically. The caseof peoplelivingwithinthe RajivGandhiNational
Park is clearly one of the most criticalin this respect. During past
decades, the Karnataka State Governmenthas attempted to provide
incentivesforpeopleto moveto bufferor peripheralzones,butit hasnot
enforced the provisions of the Act requiring their removal. In
conversationswith the Inspector,officialsagreedthat past resettlement
effortshad not beensuccessfulandthat there is thereforea low levelof
credibilitywithrespecttofuturerelocationpromises.

62.       In 1996, the World Wildlife Fund for Nature requested the
SupremeCourt to direct the state governmentsto fully implementthe
WildlifeProtectionAct of 1972. In its rulingof August22, 1997,the
Supreme Court called upon all states to "...complete the process of
determinationof rightsand acquisitionof landor rightsas contemplated
by the Act withina periodof one year." Thatperiodhasalreadypassed
and the states are seekingan extension,but the processof establishing
tribal rights in Nagaraholeis now time-bound.               36    As the Management
Response says, "...this could reduce the states' freedom to support
people within park boundaries." The Association"has asked for a
clarificationfrom the Ministryof Environmentand Forestsabout how
this rulingis expectedto affectthe commitmentsmadeunderthe Project,
and a responseisawaited."3

63.       Thus there is, at a minimum, serious tension between the
provisionsof the WildlifeAct as recentlyinterpretedby the Supreme
Courtandthe Project'slegalconvenantsnotto carryout anyinvoluntary
resettlement of people living within the seven protected areas in
question,includingNagarahole.Whilethesecovenantsneverdidappear
fullyconsistentwiththe provisionsof the 1972WildlifeProtectionAct,
Indian authorities did accept them.38 Moreover, according to the
ManagementResponse, the state governmenthas confirmed several
timesthat,sincetheNovember1994pre-appraisalmission,"theyhad not
carried out activities that could be consideredimplementationof a



36 Managementstatesthat,"Weareawarethatat leastone statehasadvisedthe courtthroughan
      affidavitthat it will be very difficult to meet the terms of the order." Management
      Response,para 17.

37 SeeattachedManagementResponse,para 17.

38It is understoodthatthe legaldocumentsare internationaltreatieswhichwouldsupersedeany
      domesticlaws. Althoughit is a readingof someof the legalfiles revealsseriousearly
      concernsabout howthe Projectcan obligethe Statesparticipatingin the Projectnot to
      carryoutany involuntaryrelocationwhentheirownlawrequiresthemnotto allowpeople
      to residewithinnationalparks.

                                              20

resettlement plan that had not been reviewed and approved by the
Association."39


PreferenceNot toRelocate

64.     Anotherreasonwhythe stayoptionappearsto be verytenuousis
the expectationsof officialsconcerningthe choicesof tribal people to
relocateor to stay. The initialpremiseduring the indicativeplanning
phasewasthat thereis (orwouldbe)a significantdemandforrelocation.
If an IndigenousPeople's DevelopmentPlanhad beenpreparedfor the
Nagaraholesiteduringthe years 1995and 1996,it wouldhave exposed
the weaknessof this premise. To date only 51 familieshave opted to
relocate, i.e., approximately3 percent of the tribal populationliving
withinthe park.40 In otherwords,to date,the overwhelmingmajorityof
the residenttribal populationseemto haveopted to stay. (Or, as some
officialswouldprefertoexpressit, theyhavenotyetoptedtorelocate.)

65.     The informationprovidedand viewsexpressedto the Inspector
andhis colleagueduringtheirvisitappearto confirmthisconclusion. In
an effort to determine eligibility, they had joint meetings with two
gatheringsof NGOs,tribal leadersand villagers,one organizedby the
Requestersand another organizedby a separategroup. For the same
purposes,the Inspectorvisited severalvillagesand spoke with several
hundred inhabitants. He was accompaniedby boththe Requestersand
governmentofficialsto one largevillage,and bythe Requestersaloneto
the others. At the same time, in the companyof governmentofficials,
his colleague visited other villages and sites. The overwhelming
majorityof thoseencounteredmadecleartheir wishto stay,notleave.4'


HopeRelocationModel WillChangeMinds

66.     An associatedreasonis the expectationof stateofficialsthat the
wishes of the people will change dramaticallyonce the success of the
initialrelocationprojectis demonstrated.This initialproject,a pilot,is
currentlybeing designedto relocatethe 51familieswhohave indicated
they wish to move. The InspectionPanel visited the proposed site
located directly adjacent to the park's boundaries. The project is



  Minutesof Negotiationspara.25.

40 During a visit to a haadi,the head of one of these familiesapproachedthe Inspectorand
     informedhimthat he had changedhis mind, thus suggestingthat the situationremains
     somewhatina stateof flux.

41 This, of course, raises the question of    how to reach the stated objectivesof the
    EcodevelopmentProjectat the Nagaraholesitewithan overwhelmingfractionof thetribal
    populationdesiringto stayintheancestrallands.



                                           21

scheduledto takeabouteighteenmonthsto complete. Atthe timeof the
Panel's visit,nospecificrelocationpackagehadbeenfinalized.


Lack ofPropertyor UsufructRights

67.      Theexpectationof a changeof heart on the part of the tribals is
unfortunatelynot based entirely on the hope that the pilot relocation
projectwillproveto be a poleof attraction. Nationaland stateofficials
pointedoutrepeatedlythat the adivasiof RajivGandhiNationalParkdo
not have any propertyrights over the land and forests in which they
dwell.     During the colonial period, the rights of the original forest
dwellerswere extinguished. This did not changeafter independence.
Their rights to use the forest (usufructrights) by collectingfirewood,
leaves,honey,edibleroots,and othernon-timberedforestproductswere
eliminatedby the Forest Departmenton the basisof the 1972Wildlife
Act. Grazingrightshavealsobeeneliminated.Asa result,tribalswithin
the park do not own any cattle (unlikepeople living in communities
adjacenttothe parkwhodoownmanycattleandgrazetheminthepark.)
Thisplacespeoplewhohavetraditionallylivedcloseto subsistencelevel
inanextremelydifficultposition.        42


68.     This combinationof the 1972WildlifeAct, the 1997 Supreme
Court decision,officialexpectationsconcerningthe presentand future
choicesof tribals,and the eliminationof theirrightsto usethe landand
forests in which they dwell,takentogether,conspireto underminethe
realityof the stayoption.Theyalso seriouslyjeopardizethe fundamental
premiseunderlyingthe Ecodevelopmentproject. (Seeparas53 and 54
above.)43


Bank ManagementExpectations

69.     But that's not all. In addition,the Panelencountereda profound
difference in the expectations of Management and state officials
concerningthe role and scope of microplanningand the investments
whichareto followthe approvalof microplans.

70.     The ManagementResponseis unequivocalon the questionof
microplans. "With respectto OD 4.20 (IndigenousPeoples),the broad
parametersforcompliancewiththe OD,includingmeasuresforongoing
consultation,were agreedduringappraisaland microplansare required


42A readingof some of the legal files reveals grave concernon this point, and raisedthe
    questionof whetherthe choiceof therelocationoptionwillbe (andwillbe seento be)an
    act of true volitionor the result of what is an essentiallyintolerablelegal and social
    situation.

43A readingof someof the legalfilesrevealsearlyconcernonmost of thesepoints,notingthat
    relocationand tribal mattersare amongthe issuesthat haveresultedin projectsgetting
    beforetheInspectionPanel.

                                          22

prior to each set of investments at the village level. These microplans
must beprepared by, and be agreeable to, the involvedpeople. "4 Later,
Managementstates that, with the completionof the indicativeplanning
phase, "Microplanningis now scheduledto build up quickly...(and) ...
would ultimately cover 100 percent of interested villages,..."4
Moreover,to ensurethat the microplansmeetthe needs and aspirations
of the people concerned, the "...microplan is approved by signature of
representatives of the village Ecodevelopment Committee and the PA
authorities.    ,46(Emphasisadded.)

71.        Managementis also clearabout the scopeof microplanning. It
states that, "The Project design and legal agreementsare intended to
minimize any adverse impacts on people with longstanding rights to
accesswithinparks. Thekey elementsof projectimplementationare:(i)
a process of village level planning (microplanning)through which
individualfamiliesand groupscanexpresstheir needs and get financial
support for improved stoves, fodder planting, weaving, tailoring,
mushroom cultivation, electric fences, training as nature guides,
developing tourist accommodationetc.; and, (ii) a Protected Area
Management planning process through which local people can increase
their involvement in overall park planning and management and resolve
conflicts. ..." (Emphases added.) Finally, Management stresses that,
"The Project does not require anyone to move and, in fact, contains
provisions which prevent government from requiring this in sites
receiving Association assistance."47 (Emphasis in original.)

72.        In meetings with the Panel, senior state officials were equally
straightforwardand unequivocal:microplanningwill not be undertaken
for any of the 58haadi(villages)containingsome 1,500familieswithin
the park. They are not needed because they are intendedto guide
investmentsandnoinvestmentswillbemadeinhaadiwithinthe park.48

73.       If this viewwereto prevailin practice,it wouldof coursevitiate
the stay option. The only way that-the adivassipeoplescould benefit
fromprojectinvestmentswouldbetorelocate.



44Seeattachedcoveringletter,para2.

45SeeattachedManagementResponse,para 18.

46 Ibid.


4 Ibid,para 5.

4sThisviewwasexpressedrepeatedly.Althoughinvitedtodo so,noseniorofficialcontradicted
      this view. On the contrary,severaltookthe positionthat underthe WildlifeAct as now
      interpretedby the SupremeCourt,the onlywaythat tribalsand their communitieswithin
      the parkcould benefitfromprojectinvestmentswouldbe througha longlegalprocessin
      which the lands on which they are locatedare "denotified"and placed outside the
      boundariesof the park.

                                           23

74.      A "processoriented"projectwouldseemto assumecompliance
with IDA policies at the implementationstage, and suggest that the
supervisionrole of the IDAtakes on addedimportance. It would also
seem to envision a dynamic supervision process, to be adjusted
continuouslyas changingsituationswarrant. Theneedforthismayseem
evidentin light of the above,but in the view of the Panel it takes on
addedurgencynowthatmicroplanninghasbegun.


75.      As noted, the Ecodevelopmentproject is based on the premise
that budgetary allocationsfor investmentsto support either the stay
optionor the voluntaryresettlementoptionwill bedrivenby the choices
made. Villagelevelmicroplansareto guidethe investmentprocess. To
date, threemicroplanshavebeencompleted,all forcommunitiesoutside
the park. And more microplansfor communitiesoutsidethe park are
planned. Yet,it appearsthatatthe moment,the overwhelmingmajority
         49

of the adivasi (some 97 percent)wish to remainin their communities
withinthe park. But,to date, nomicroplans(and,hence,no investment
plans)forcommunitieswithinthe parkare underpreparationor foreseen.
T-hereis thus a growingimbalancebetweenthe apparentchoicesof the
people and the microplansfor project investments,and a potentially
growing gap between project policy as clearly set out in the loan
covenantsand the evolvingrealityon the ground. In the Panel's view,
there is anurgentneedto correctthis imbalance.




49 Staffcommunicationto Panel.

                                 24

3.      GENERAL FINDINGS

76.     Management appears to have been aware of the paucity of
informationand researchat the appraisalstage. In simplyacceptingthe
factthat objectivedataand scientificstudieswereverylimited,however,
IDA appears to have allowedmuch of the debate about the potential
conflictbetweenthe two mainthrustsof the projectto be conductedon
the basisof predeterminedviewsandunsubstantiatedclaims.

77.     In spite of the recognized"historyof mistrustbetweenthe tribal
peopleandthe government"atthis "mostchallengingof the sevensites,"
Management acknowledgesthat the Project did not carry out the
"identificationof local preferencesthrough direct consultation"at the
appraisalstage. It appearsthat GEFguidelinesonparticipationwerenot
followedeither.

78.    Insteadof complyingdirectlywiththe OD4.20's directivesinthe
appraisalphase,Managementintendedthat "moredetailedconsultation"
would follow during implementation. This decisionhad a number of
consequences. Mostimportant,perhaps,it has deniedmost of the long-
residentadivasior tribalpeoplesof the parkany significantinputonthe
basicassumptionsand conceptsunderlyingthe indicativeplan,including
the traditionalrights of the adivasito use the resourcesof the park,the
nature of future microplanningprocesses,and their role in the future
managementof the park.

79.    Management admits that no separate Indigenous Peoples'
DevelopmentPlan was preparedduringthe appraisalstage,as required
by OD 4.30. If an IndigenousPeople's DevelopmentPlan had been
prepared,it wouldhavefurtherexposedthe tensionbetweenbiodiversity
protectionobjectivesand the conditionand aspirationsof the indigenous
peopleat RajivGandhiNationalPark. It wouldhaveenabledsignificant
input on the basic assumptions and concepts underlying the
EcodevelopmentProject.Andit maywellhaveexposedthe weaknessof
someof the premisesunderwhichthe Projectwasconceived,at leastfor
this particularpark.

80.    Oneof these premises,duringthe indicativeplanningphase,was
that there is (or would be) a significantdemandfor relocation. The



                                  25

Panelfindsthat, to date,the overwhelmingmajorityof the residenttribal
populationhasoptedto stay.

81.    Anotherkey premiseappearsalso to be in question:namely,that
the tribal populationresidentin the park have the optionto stay or to
leave; and that these are true options,with equal weightand value in
terms of the supportthey are to receivefromprojectresources. In fact,
the combinationof the 1972 Wildlife Act, the 1997 SupremeCourt
decision,officialexpectationsconcerningwhetherthe tribalswill optto
stay or leave, and the eliminationof their rights to use the land and
forests in which they dwell, taken together, seem to conspire to
underminethe realityofthe stayoption.

82.    There appears to be a profound difference between the
expectationsof Managementand those of state officialsconcerningthe
role andscopeof microplanningandthe investmentswhichareto follow
the approvalof microplans. Managementstatesthat "....microplans       are
requiredprior to each set of investments at the village level. (They) must
be prepared by, and be agreeable to, the involved people ...and (they)...
would ultimately cover 100 percent of interested villages...     ."  State
officialswere equallyunequivocalin tellingthe Panel that microplans
willnotbe undertakenforanyofthe 58haadi(villages)withinthepark.

83.    To date, three microplans have been completed, all for
communitiesoutside the park; and more microplansfor communities
outside the park are planned. Yet, although it appears that, at the
moment,the overwhelmingmajorityof the adivasi (some 97 percent)
wishto remainin their communitieswithinthe park, no microplansfor
communitieswithinthe park are under preparationto date and none is
foreseen. There is thus a growing imbalancebetweenthe apparent
choices of the people and the microplanningprocess to guide project
investments. In ordertoensurecompliancewiththe loancovenants,itis
urgent that IDA supervisionshouldassist in correctingthis and avoid
seriousfutureimbalances.




                                   26

4.      FINDINGS ON ELIGIBILITY OF
REQUEST.

84. In light of the above, the Panel finds the Request eligible pursuant to
the provision of the Resolution that established the Panel.




5.      FINDINGS ON MANAGEMENT'S
OBSERVANCEOF BANK'S POLICIES AND
THE QUESTION OF HARM.

85.     There is prima facie evidence that the Bank has failed to observe
its policy on Indigenous Peoples in the design and appraisal phases. In
the view of the Panel, there is a significant potential for serious harm
although, given the processes now underway, it may not become evident
for some time.




6.      RECOMMENDATION

86.     The Panel finds that certain key premises underlying the design
phase of the Project at the Nagarahole site are flawed, as a result of
which there is a significant potential for serious harm. It therefore
recommends that the Executive Directors authorize an investigation into
this case.




                                   27

                                                                 Attachment   1




NAGARAHOLE BUDAIKATTU HAKKU
                    STAPANA SAMITHI
Gedlde ltfldi, lVagarhole P.O, Sout-h Kodlagri, Kairnataka, S.INYDIA, Pin-571 250



 September 2, 1998



Mr. Jim'MacNeill
inspectionPanel
InternationalBankforReconstructionand Development
International Development Association
 1818H StreetN.W.
Washington,D.C.20433
UI.SA.A

DewrMr. MaNeilNa

Your letter of August 19,informingus of your decisionto visit for a reviewof the
concernsraisedbyus wasreceivedby us on 28th August. Giventhe veiyshorttimeto
prepare and put together al the relevant documentationavailable,we havepreparedthis
note foryour attentionto provide you with some additionalinformationandanalysis.We
hope that this notewillhelpthe team to understandbetter the situationinthe area,which
canbe complimentedbyvisitingthe tribal peoples inNagarholePark.We sincerelyhope
that this will helpin the process of reviewing our concernswithregardto the Eco-
DevelopmentProjectforNagarhole.

Thisnote willfocusonthe majoradverse-impacts and threats that the Eco-development
Projgct-IndiafinmcedbyWB, IDA and GEF and implementedbyGOItroughthe'Forest
Departmentof Karnatakaonthe tribal peoples inNagarholc

We strongly beieve that the Inspection Panel team should report to the Board of the
World Bank about how this project has been implemented so far by the GOI,gng
attcntion to the actionsand the practices of the Forest Departmentthat affectthe trbal
people ofNagarhole.

We also believeta, byfinancingthe so-caled Eco-developmentfor the peoplesleaving
in the fringesof theparkand bypushingforward the 'voluntaryrelocation'of the pepple
leaving insidethe park. echoverall approach of the WB project failsto recognizethe
traditionalindigenouspeoplerightsto the land andthe natral resourcesandtheirrightsto
preservetheircultur andto decideabout thc kind of developmenttheywant

EMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT BY THE GOI AND THE FOREST
DEPARTMENTOF KARANTAKA AND VIOLATIONS OF WB DIRECTIE
OD 4.20

- The tribal yednles were never consulted and the, never participate in the design
and on tbeimplemnentation    of the Droiect- The processQL-freIeasinc  the preparatory
and rwal WB documents has been delated and incoravlete.

Theoverallprocessof designingappraisingand implementingthe projecthas shownthe
governmentof Indiaand the WB violatingseveralofWB directivesandprocedureswhich
recommendpeopleparticipationandconsultation.

Most of the proceduresestablishedby the Bank to obtainthe 'informedconsent'of the
indigenouspeoplesthemselves(amongothers participationand consultationprocedures,
releasingof informationto allgroupsinvolvedinthe project),havebeenviolated.

We are not aware of any 'Indigenous Peoples Development Plan' that has been so far
prepared.Thisseemsto benthemostimportantdocumentrequired,inaccordancewithWB
OD 4.20, when indigenous groups are present on the project area During the
identificationstage the tribals never receive a vWisit
                                                     of a WB officer or Govt.Forest
Department officer.If the WB and the-GOI carried out the IPDP it was without the
contribution,consentand knowledgeofthe peopleconcerned.


O.D. 4.20 clearly says that: 'identifyinglocal preferencesthrough direct consultation,
incorporationof indigenousknowledgeintoprojectapproach,andappropriateearlyuse of
experiencedspecialistsare core activitiesfor any project that affectsindigenouspeoples
andtheir rightsto naturaland economicresources'.

.ine lenu Kuruba, Betta Kuruba and other adivasi peoples (scheduledtribe) are the
indigenouspeopleof the territorythat presentlyconstitutethe RajivGandhi,NationalPark
and we haveneverbeenconsultedpriorand/or duringthe designof theEco-deelopment
project. We think that is a violationof our basic right to determineour futureand to
oppose a projectthat we thinkwillhavea negativeimpacton our lives,livelihood    andon
the survivalof ourpeople.

The oo,ion rfarred bv the tribal people (outlirwd in the 'Peoples plan' that we sent to
the I amorenclosed herewith for your r!ference) were never taken in considerationt

The tnbal people of NagarholePark were never involvedin consultationwith the
government in order to contnbute to the enviromnentalassessmentor environmental
analysis.
We even don't knowif anyenvironmentalassessmentor environmentalanalysishasbeen
so far carriedout becauseweneverreceiveda scheduleof sucha process,neithera listof




                                    _4t_

studies and baselineinformationto be prepared during the followingstages. This has
resultedina violationofthe O.D.4.01onEnvironmentalAssessmentparagraplf19.

Theonlydocumentthe tnbal were suppliedfromthe WorldBankwastheStaffAppraisal
Report (August.1996)which they requested to be translatedin the locallanguage,the
Kannada,but it,was never done. Thishas resultedin a seriousviolationof the 1993WB
Directiveon Disclosureof Infbrmation,since informationdisclosureis a prerequisiteto
meaningfulconsultation.


Will folow a brief note describingthe main falures related to the participationand
consultationofthe tibals andthe localNGOsworkingwhitthemduringthe identification.
preparationappraisalandimplementationstagesof the project.


The     dubious stand of World Bank in avoidinuu concerned NGOs in the
imRlementationof Eco-develonumentProiect at Nazarhole.

In    serious violation of its own Operational Directive 4.20 with regard to the
implementationof a project,the WorldBank in the case of plauningand implementation
of the proposedIndiaEco-DevelopmentProject (at least concemingNagarholeNational
Park). hastaken a dubiousstand,"consulting withonlythe NGOswhoagreeto the WB
positionand are willingto tow its linewithout anyopen debate.Thispartisanattitudeof
WB clearlyprojectsitsvestedintentionto implementthe projectat anycost,unmindfUlof
its own set directives,as well as becominga party with the state govemment,to a
numberof humanrightsviolationsand purposefiUlavoidanceof the conceemedActs &
Rulesof the stategovernment.

In the first place,fromthe planningstage to the presentstatus of the project,the NGOs
who have beenhavingdecadelong involvementwiththe concernedtribalpopulation in
the area have been purposefllly avoidedin so called'consultations" and 'meetings"
reportedlyheldjointly byWB andthe government,preparatoryto the implemenationof
the project at Nagaralole. Neither they and the concemed people's organisationswere
providedwith correct infonnationof the project, nor their repeatedprotestsresponded
hitherto. The following are some of the salient correspondencewith WB that bear
witnessto thesefacts.

1. On 27-10-1994, DEED, Hunsurand FEDINA-Vikas,H.D. Khotewritesto the WB
Missionto Iadia,protesting againstthe projectproposalmadebythe DeputyConservator
of Forests & Widlife, Mr. Sreenivasaiah,claimningthat the proposalwas made with
consultationsto NGOs includingDEED, FEDIN-Vikasa,andCORD,Kushalnagar,and
the three of thembeing acknowledgedin his document.In response,Ms. JessicaMott,
NaturalResourceEconomistof WorldBank,in her letter datedDecember24, 1994tells
that the issuescould be addressedthrough open and constructivcdialogueswith the
KantaJca Forest Department and other NGOs over the succeedingmonthswhen the


                                  -3-

project was to be finalised.Until June, 1996,there haven't been any knowninitiatives
from the part of WB for the so called"open & constructivedebate".In the meanwhile,
 severalprotestsfromthe concernedpeople and NGOshavebeenfiledwithWB,withno
responsesat all.

2. On 1st April 1996, M3. Anita Cheriah at the WB/GE-F-NGOConsultationin
Washingtonand presentsan analyticalreport on the contradictionsand contrastsof   the
proposedplanespeciallywithregardto the WB's owndirectivesandprinciples.TheWB
wasnot concerned.

3. On 1stJune, 1996the WB New DelbioiEce had organizeda consultationmeeting on
the proposed IndiaEco-DevelopmentProject where the participatingNGOswere to be
identifiedby Centrefor Scienceand Environment,NewDelhli,the designatedfocalpoint
by GEF for SouthAsia.The honest list firnished by CSE was almosttotallyforegone
(only2 invitedwithhoursshort-noticeto ensure eventheirownparticipation)and to the
least,even CSE wasnot extendeda formal invitationto the meeting.(Reference:CSE's
protest letter to Mr.DavidMarsden, SocialDeveloprnentUnit,WorldBank, dated 13th
June, 1996.)

4. OnJune 17,1996.TheBudakattuKrishikkaraSangha,jointlywith7 concemned         N?Os
with deep involvementwith the tribal people of the area registertheir protests onthe
project.In response,Ms. JessicaMott vide her fax copy datedJune 19, 1996,suggests
for a consultationwith the Forest Departmentand the complainants . The concerned
tribalpeoplewerenotreadyforthis consultationonthe groundthat theycouldnot      accept
a plan forwhichtheyneverhadbeenconsultedandthe ForestDepartmentwouldnotgive
offtheir "prerogatives".Withreferenceto her letter datedJune 18, 1996to CORDMs.
JessicaMott admits that "no PPF or project-supportedparticipatorymicroplanninghas
yet taken placebut hopedfor it shortly. What folUowedwasthat shehada flyingvisitto
Nagaraholeandhelddiscussionsonlywiththe forest officialsandnot withthe people.

 5. The Nagarahole HaklcuSamrakshaSamithyfiled their officialprotest withWB on
26th September,1996to whichthere was no responseat all. Untilnow,this extensively
based Tnbal People's Organisationespeciallyin the project area and havingnational
linkagesandrecognition,wasneverconsultedbyWBor the ForestOfficials.

6. TheForestDepartmentandthe IndiabasedWE officeseemto havebeenina conspired
process to enlistNGOswho factuallydidn't have any involvementwiththe tribals,or
those whichhavesprungup inthe meantime,as beingconsulted andco-operatedwithin
the plannin and implementatio,g roft       e-t                         LIFT (Living
Inspirationfor Tnrbls) & 6        f     es.        The      of      Appraisa T
duringthe first week of July, 1998,was intimated onlyto these"enlisted'NGOs and
there weredeliberateeffortsto keepawaythe others.

7. WB remaineddeafto protests aired by concemedNGOsandtribalmovementsnation-
wide.To stateexamnpleis the joint protest placed duringGEFAssemblyinthe frst week
of April,1998.

In summary,.there had been no consultationswith the concernedpeople or NGOs.
Instead there has been increased harassment of the inhabitantadivasisby the Forest
Department. The Indicative      Plan made by Indian Institute of Public Administration
admits that there exists a "confrontational"and "generallyantagonistic"relationship
betweenthe ForestDepartmentandthe Adivasiandinfutureislikelyto "continueto (be)
strain(ed)".Andintheirletter to Mr. NarendranathdatedJuly10, 1996,theyclearlyspell
that the Planlaysdownthe procedure to be followedin detailmiicro-levelplanningwhich
would be participatory and would start at the initiation of the project. Yet there has been
no meaningful and purposive efforts from the part of WB and the Forest Department to
involve the people at anylevel of the whole process of the project.




The traditional and customanr rights to the land and the use of resources of the
indizenous peoulesof Nazarhole were never settled in an aDRroDnatemanner by the
GOI

Accordingto OD4 .20 (par. 15) the legal status of the indigenousgroups should be
assessed by the WB , as reflected in country constitution,legislation,and subsidiazy
legislation with particular attention to the rightsof indigenous people to use and develop
their land, to be protected by legal intruders and to have accessto natural resources (such
as forest, wildlife,and water).

Therightsofthe indigenouspeoples livinginNagarholehavenot beenproperlysettledby
implementingthe Indianlegislationconcemingthe rights of peoplelivingwithinNational
Parks..Andmore,the {OI and the mD         of Karnatakahavebeencommittingserioushuman
rightsviolationinlatestyears.

Byremainingsilentonsucha humanrights andpeoplesrightsviolationandbyfiindingthe
implementationof sucha project in an area that sufferfor highencroachmentof peoples
rights the WB is not only violating their own rules but is possibly sponsoring firther
violationsatthe peopleexpenses.

Whatwillfollowis a reviewof Indianlaws and policiesrelatedto tribalpeoplesrightson.
landsand resourcesinsidethe TndianNationalParks and not implementedbythe GOI and
the GOK.Thisfailurein implementingthese provisionsandinrecognisingthe indigenous
rightsto leaveinsidethe parks, fullyenjoy,theirrights, broughtto the actualsituationof
the peopleandthreatsthat they are now suifering.Afterthat wegivea listof documented
historyof the humanrightsviolationsufferedbyfth Nagarholepeoplesinthe latestyears
and the violationsto theircustomaryrights, their dignityof life,andthe spoilingof their
cultureandtraditionallivelihoods.



                                               s

The Indian law and Rroceduresfor settline indieeuous rights whiten the National
Parks: failures and bed practices

The procedure for settlementof rightsfor reserved,villageand protectedforests are
providedunder Sections4- 20 of the IndianForest Act. 1927andfor nationalparksand
wildlifesanctuariesunderSections- 19-25of the wildlife(Protection)Act.1972.Theacts
stipulatetwo categoriesof rights settlement.One for the three differentkindsof forests
under the IndianForest Act, 1927 and the other for parks and sanctuaxiesunder the
Wildlife(Protection)Act, 1972.The differencesbetweenthe sub-categoriesare mininal
and as far as rightsare concemedthere are onlymarginaldifferencesbetweena parkand
sanctuary.

1. Briefly,once an area is notified as a park/sanctuarythe Collecworis to inquireand
determinethe nature andextent of rightsheld by the peoplein or overthe notifiedland
(Section 19).

2. The Collectoris to publishin the regionallanguage"in everytownandvillageinor in
the neighborhoodof the area" (Section21) specifyingthe boundariesof the notifiedland
and informingrightsholdersto makea written claimof their existingrightsdescribingin
detail their nature and extent.they are also requred to give ab estimateof any due
compensationsincasetheirrightsare extinguished.In mostcases,the peopleare unaware
of the publicationof suchnoticesandignorantofthe provisionsofthe lawandsuchclaims
therefore are rarelybroughtto the Collector.

3. After the issuanceof a notification,the Act bars newrightsinthe newlyprotectedarea
"exceptbyscission,testamentaryor intestate"(Section20).

4. The Collectoris to theninquireintothe claimedand unclaimediightsascertainingthem
as far as possibleby governmentrecordsand bythe "evidenceof anypersonacquainted
withthe same"(Section22). For the purpose of inquirythe Collectoris vestedwiththe
powersto conductanysurveyon anylandandmakemapsand demarcations(Secdon23).
Theseinquirycoversallrightsmentionedunder Sections19and21.

5.,Those whodo claimtheir rightsunder Sections10mayhavetheirrightseitherrejected
or admittedand the Collectormayexcludesuch land (overwhichthere are claims)from
the notified area or "allow, in consultation with the Chief WildlifeWarden,, the
continuationof any right of any person in or over any land withinthe lirnitsof the
sanctuary" (Section24 (2) (C)" (emphasisadded)in).The mentionedsub-clause2(c) of
Section24. The mentionedsb-clause 2(c) of Section24 is not applicablefor National
Parks. The claimantmay evenrelinquishhis rights dependentupon an arrangementwith
the govenmment.In such a situation,the claimantis to be compensatedinlandor money
or both as perthe provisionsofthe LandAcquisitionAct, 1894.




                                           6

6. It must be noted that "in case of the stoppageof a publicor a commonpasure, the
Collector may, with the previous sanction of the state government,provide for       an
alternativepublicway or commonpasture, as far as maybe practicableor convenient
(Section25 (1)(1)

7. Further, The Chief WildlifeWarden may reguate, control or prohibitgrazingand
movementof livestock(Section33 (d) ). This too is not applicablefor NationalParks,
howeverauthorizedpersonsmayuse livestockas a vehicleto enterthe parks(Section36
(7)).

8. The onlydifferencebetweennationalparksandsanctuariesisthereforeSection24(2)(c)
and Section33 (d).

9. The GujaratHighCourt Judgmentdated 22-24, March, 1995of SCA6061of 1994
(Centre forEavironmentalLaw,WWF-Indiav. SanghiCements)hasdeclaredthat despite
the word "intended"Section18of the amendedAct shouldbe readas a finalnotification.
Theword 'intended" hadbeenintroducedto accommodatechangesthatmigt bebrought
about in the notifiedarea under Section24 (2), afer the rights oversucharea hasbeen
inquired into and detemiinedby the Collector. In the case of any changesanother
notificationisrequireddemarcatingthe alteredmapofthe sanctuary,hencetheprovisofor
the finalnotification.Thejudgmnentholdsthat for allpracticalpurposesSection18of the
amendedAct shouldbe read as the provisodeclaringthe establishmentof     a sancary. It
was an oversighton the part of the law makersthat Section26 0) wassubstitutedwith
Section18insteadof beingaddedon inthe definitionof a sanctuaryunderSection2 (26)
of the Wildlife(Protection)Act, 1972

The model adoptedis that of the Land AcquisitionAct, 1894and the     basicstructue is
similarto the one descnrbedabove.The exceptionis that the Forest SettlementOfficer
may pass orders allowingthe continuationof rights provided it does not affectthe
maintenanceof the reservedforests. Shiftingcultivation,rigt to pastureand     right to
forest producemaybe admittedafterconsiderationbythe SO.

Despitethe draconiannatureof the laws,forceddisplacementis not legitimized anywhere
inthe abovementionedprovisions,nor do theyspeakof absolutediscontinuanceof      rights.
Sanctuariesand reservedforests,in fact providefor their continuanceat the discretionof
the Chief Wldlife Wardenand the Forest SettlementOfficer.Howeversmallthe space
may be for maneuverability,the space existsnonethelesswith perhapsthe exceptionof
nationalparksand there is causeto believethat the law is openfor interpretationwhicha
sensitivejudiciarymaydo soforthe benefitof thelocalcommunities.

In reality,theseproceduresare not completedinthe majorityof the parksandsanctaries
and evenreservedforests.Noris the task practicalor simple,providinginadditionenough
ground formisinterpretationof law. Evenwitha petitionfiledinthe SupremeCourt(No.
337 of 1995), the forest departmentsare misinterpretingthe RuleNisi Orderof 25th
August, 1995and subsequentorder of 22ndAugust, 1997to suittheir owninterestsand



                                           7

misreading the procedures of settlement of rights as proviso        for displacementThe
petitioners too have not strengthenedtheir case nor taken subsequentprecautionsto
nullifysuch attemptsor give directivestowardswhich right maybe           "settled",;till such
time a consensus is reached between the people and the governmentregarding the
existence/continuanceof rightsinprotectedareas.

In 1996the WorldWildLifeFund for Nature requestedthe SupremeCourt in                 1996to
direct the stategovernmentsto fullyimplementthe Wildlife(Protection)Act withrespect
to Protected Areas (PA)which includes80 nationalparks and 443 sanctuariesin               the
country. Withregardto NagarholeNationalPark, the initial declarationof           intentionto
constitute the area into a nationalpark under the WildlifeAct of 1972was           issuedon
4.4.1975 ( GO. NoFD 14 FWL) and the fial declaration of the area as Nagarhole
NationalPark wasissuedon 16.3.1983(GONo.FFD 195FWL82).

But it not clearthat the Governmentof Karnatakahas gone throughallthe procedures
requiredunderthe law beforethe finaldeclarationis issued.For instancethe rightsof          the
tribal people residing within the park are not defined and recognised. It is not clear, if the
tribal settlenents have any rights to NFP or to traditionalpractices       or to traditional
rciHgiousand burialsites.

Thisneedsto be clarifiedbythe Govemmentof Karnatakaandif theyhavenot fulfilledall
the legal provisions before finaldeclaration of the national park, then there is a clear case
for violationof the WildlifeProtectionAct of 1972.If such is the case,thenthisis       alsoa
violationof OD4.20 ArticleNO.15(a) whichstatesthat the legalstatusof         the indigenous
groups should be assessed by the WB, as reflected in country constitution, legislation,and
subsidiarylegislationwithparticularattentionto the rightsof indigenouspeopleto useand
develop their land , to be protected by legal intrudersand to       have accessto natural
resources(suchas forest, wildlife,and water).In additionArticle15(C) statesthatwhen
locallegislationneeds strengthening( inthis casenot fiulfllingthe requirementsunderthe
WildlifeProtectionAct of 1972) theWB shouldofferto adviceandassisttheboTrowerin
establishingthe legalrecognitionof the customaryor traditionallandtenuresystemsof
indigenous peoples.

Maior violations of the humansnghts and the customaa riehts of the tribals                  of
Nagarhole brouEht by both tbe Forest Department and Government               of Karnataka
DrUctuces wil follow.


The experienceof tribalpeoplelivinginsidethe NagaraholeNationalPark is            verybitter
with regardsto the enjoymentof their rights. From the point of viewof the Karnataka
Govt.JForestDept. the tribalpeopleare the illegaloccupantsof theirforestarea.        Though
the tribal people have been livinghere for decades,they have no       rightsfor cultivation,
keeping domestic animals, collecting food from the forest, gathering           minor fores
produces,huntingsmal game,buildinghouses,usingroadsandtanspordng mateuialsand
mostimportantlyandforculturalpracticesand religiousritus.

Also,the forestdepartmenthasforbiddenundertalingof anydevelopmentactivitiesbythe
social welfare and integrated tribal development programmes.          The Govt. of
Karnataka/TheForestDepartmentdoesnot recogniseandrespectanyofthe constitutional
guarantees, laws, social, economic and cultural productive measures meant for the tribal
people.

This is a clear instance of violation of Nagarhole people's humanrights and their
traditional rights to land and resources, and unwillingnesson the part of the Forest
Departnent/the Kamnatakastate govermmentto recognisethe tribalprotectivemeasuresas
envisagedinthe constitution,etc. The violationshappensometimesinthe nameof forest
lawsand manyatimesas anact of outrightviolationoftribalpeoples'rightto life.

So the forestdepartmentis hell-benton evictingthe tribalpeoplefromtheN-P.area. The
followingillustationselucidatethis:

1)     In Golurtribalhadi(H.D.Kote)peoplewereharassedandphysicallybeatenupby
       the forest departmentofficialsand the policefortaklngup agriculturalactivitiesin
       July 1998.

2)     Someof the good-intentionedresearchstudentsvisitingthesetribalpeopleintheir
       hadieswerealsoharassedand abusedbyforestdepartnent officialsas violatingthe
       forest laws.

3)     In Chandanakere(Virajpettaluk) the Yaravatibals who wereforcefuly evicted
       frominsidethe NationalPark area (Shantipura)are forbiddenfromenteringinto
       the forest to visit their burial grounds and sacred graves in the name of
       developmentproject. 36 familiesaresqueezedinto mere 13housesbult bythe
       departmentin 1985-87. They are land-lockedwithout an approachpathor road.
       Theyare cut offfromthe forest by a trench andan electricfencinginthe nameof
       eco-developmentproject. They are facingseverethreatto theirexstence. There
       by the non-tnbalswho are encroachingontheirlandand not allowingthemto use
       thoroughfares.

4)     In Gonigadde, the tribal residents are harassed and abused by the forest
       department. Peoplefor keepinglive animalslikeGoats, chickensandpet dogsas
       recentlyas an yearback. Animalswere forcefillyremovedanda Policecasewas
       lodgedagaint them. The road to Gonigaddehadi is chain-gatedand the key is
       keptbythe localforest,whichis not comfortablyavailableto thepeople. Neitherit
       was not given nor the road was not opened for transportingpaddy grassfor
       thatclingthe house-roofs.

       Thepeopleare not allowedto go to the forestto collectthewild-grass,to collect
       honey etc. In Gonigadde,in the very middleof the hadithere is a HoneyTree
       whichis sacredand traditionallyimportantfor thehadi people. Thepeople are




                                           9

    forbiddenfrom collectinghoney from their tree in the nameof eco-development
    project.

    Peopleare not allowedto buildhouseshereand 2     to 3 familiesare squeezedinto
    one singlehut. InGonigaddepeopleare forbiddenfromcultivatingtheirfieldsand
    monotultureforestsaplingslikeeucalyptusandbambooare plantedontheirpaddy
    fields.

    Gonigaddeis a tribal Jamma centre and peoplewho wereforced       out from here
    earlierare forbiddenfromvisitingthe templeshere.

    Even after repeated requests for reconstructingan   electricline which had got
    damagedand dismantledand abandonedinthe       nameof forest laws,is not at all
    repaired.

5)  In Murkalas recentlyas a monthback onJuly28,    two innocenttnbalpeoplewere
    draggedout of their house from their sleep at 5 am in  the night,beaten up and
    underfalsecasessent for thejails. Thesepeopleare harassedto   makethemoblige
    to move out of their home forest simplyunder   the threat of the forest officials.
    Thetribalpeoplehere are afraidto moveout.

6)  In Murakalinspiteof the localtnbal people's opposition,the   ForestDepartment
    obduratelywent a load with the constructionof resorts. It  was earlierdeclared
    Mlegalbythe state highcourt and recentlythe Centralgovernnenttoo hasdeclared
    it illegalandhasurgedthe state govt.to takeactionagai    the ming offlcials.

7)  In Kolangere,anyearbackthe tribalpeopletriedto cultivatesomepicmeof landin
    their originalplaceEeramanehadlu.But theyhad to face atrocitiesfromthe RFO
    and bis staff. Here the people are forbiddenfrombuildinghouses     and in sornc
    housesthento theirfamiliesare squeezedin onehouse.

8)  InNanachiGaddehaditwo yearsbackthe localRFOtrampleddownplantedpaddy
    fieldsandbeatuptribalsand lodgedfalsecasesagainstthem.

9)  In Karekand JunglehadiandAyarhosahallitibal hadies,manypeoplearebarassed
     and beatenup for cultivatingand false casesare regstered   againstthenLIn the
    roadsleadingto thesehadiesare trenchedforcefulyinspiteofthe protests.

10)  In Tattekere.besidesallthe restrictionson enteringinto the forest are forbidden
    frombuildinghouse. Those evictedpeopleare(45 fiailies)     squeezedintoa small,
     marshyareaoflessthan2 acres.

11)  In Kodange,the forest departmentpeople wanted    to fenceout the tnbal people
     wholiveinthe insidefringeof the NationalPark.   But the peopleresistedthis act




                                        10

        andthe departmenthad to fencealong the de-line. But inspiteof the requestby
        the people,the departmentdidn't allowa pathout forthepeople'smovement.

12)     Recenty, one ofthe tribalforest watcherJ.K.Ramu,wasmurderedwhileonduty
        by a gangof timbersmugglers. The higherup officialsinthe departmentwere so
        calloustpwardsthis murderand are consciouslyavoidingseriousinvestigationinto
        the mafiagangbehindthe act. The departmentahsfiliedto payanycompensation
        so far.

        Thisnegligenceandthe failureof the departmentto payanycompensationi5 alsoa
        part of itsharassmenetstrategyto moveout the tribalpeople.

13)     In Nagarhole,the tribalpeople are harassedfor goingintothe forestfor collecting
firewood,wildgrass,honey,smallgamehuntingandtheyhaveto moveout alwaysunder
threat fromthe forestofficials.

Another pariicularinstanceof violationis for biddingof supplyof tilesfromthe BDO's
officebythe localMLAhimself.

14)In Bellenahosalli,Hunsurwhileputting trenchesto denark a dcline the officiallyof
the forest departmentencroached upon tribal lands granted to them by the revenue
departnent.



AUlthe hadiesandthe familiesstayinginsidethe park are forbiddenfromavailinganyof.
thedevelopmentprogrammesfromthe government. The departmenthassent strictorder
to developmentprogramme'simplementingagenciesnot to undertakeanysuchactivities
likeroads, drining water, house constructon etc. becausethey wantto shiftthe tribal
people out. This is the method of slow strangulationto force the people out of the
NationalPark. Thereare alsomanya cases of violationsinNagarhaolewhilepeoplewent
for cultivation,put fencingforprotectionas in 1996June.

The above listed instancesare but a few of series of violations.whichhavehappened
sometimesin the gwse of law and many a timesas an outrightviolationof tribalpeople
dignityandrightto life.

Whatis the EcoDevelonmentProiect andhowit effectstheDeouleandthemodelof
devclopment that will result by the implemeutation of the same

Facts fromthe W.B StaffAppvraisal   Report August 1996.

1)      The World Bank staff appraisal.-report says.there are 96 villagesand a total of
        70,000 people inthe 5 lan radius fromthe fringe of theNagaraholeForest. Of the
        above population25% consfitute the tibals.



                                           11

2)     Factsfromthe KamnatakaForest Departmentbreak-upof eco-development      money
       i)      78% moneyfor the eco-developmentof the 5 Junradiusarea from the
               fiingeof Nagarhole.
       ii)     Therest of 22% is for strengtheningthe forestdepartmentwithinthe park
               areavwthmore stafffacilitiesand other infrastructuraldevelopmentforthe
              parkmanagement.

Commentsandobjectionsregardingthe abovefacts.

1)     In the eco-developmentprogramme: In the fringe 5 km radius does not
       discriminatebetweenthe tribals and the non-tribals. Tnibalpeopleneed to be
       consideredseparate and special in order to enable them to enjoy the special
       privileges-constitutional
                              andlegal.

2)     Facts regarding the 22% project money spent for forest department's
       strengthening.
       i)     During our oral discussionwith the NagarholeForest RangeOfficerhas
               said "from the 22% of the project money one A.CF, 3 RFO's and a
               numberof foresters and guards will be appointedfor the 5 years project
               period.
Objections:These officersspecialrole is not clear in the context of Eco-development
programmes.

       ii)     The money is used for provinding cycles, torches, uniforms, shoes,
              umbrellasforthe guardsandwatchers.
Objections:Thesetrifles,wearenot clear,howcanit contributeto theproject'sgoals.

       iii)    Weseethatthere inno real programmefor upgradingtheNationalPark in
               the form of watershed, soil conservation, replacementof Teak and
              Eucalyptus mono-culture, the bio-pressure from the increasedanimal
               population,scientificmeasuresto conservethe bio-diversity,etc.

Facts rqardinz the implementationof Eco-developmentproiectintheFringeAreas

       I)      Formingvillageco-development committees1i)Educatingthemnot to go
               to the NationalPark area iii)Promisinga developmentpackageworthRs.
               10,000/-perfamily.

Some fats:

1)     One village eco-developmentcomm;itteeis formed at Veeranahosaballi-Hunsur
       talukc,andmanya tribalpeoplehaverefised to takepatt in it.




                                           12

2)   The processof forminga commnitteein Sharatwadi-Hunsurtaluk,isboycottedby
     the tribalpeopleinthevillage.

3)   In Kolavige-4unsurtaluk, the tribal people have refusedto be a party to the
     committee.

4)   In Chandankere-Virajpettaluk,tnbal peoplehaverefusedto be a partyto forming
     the comnittee.

5)   In Hirehalii-Aand Hireballi-Btribal hadies-H.DKote taluk tribalpeople have
     refusedto be partyto the committee.Laterthe RFOhasformeda comrmitteewith
     20non-tribalfarners as itsmembers.

Theobjections:

     i)      It is alwaysthe forest departmentofficialsand the stafflike the RFO,
            foresterand the watcherwho are playinga dominantroleinformingthese
            committeesandmanya timestheseoffcials isfeltbythetribalpeople.

     ii)     The officialsare luring the people with a 10,000 rupees development
             packageperfamilyto formthe conunittees.

     iii)   Everywherethe trbal peoplehave refiusedto be a partof thiscommittees
            forthe followingreasons:

             a)     Theyare not readyto give-uptheir rightsto MF.P. andtheirsocio-
                    culturalrightsto visitsacredplacesintheforests.

             b)     The developmentpackage shown as an inducemnt by the forest
                    departmentpeople are not conduciveto them. It is not suitableto
                    thetribalaspirationslikeowningcommunityland,etc.

Somecommentsonthe Eco-develop=         project erspectv inthe 5 kmradiusirea

     I)     The Eco-developmentprogrammesin the fringehas been turnedinto a
            normal and routine developmentprogramme.by the forest department
            officials. TheEco-developmentmoneyis proposedto be spentforbuying
            cows, goats, sheep, chicken, constructing gobar gas plants and for
            purchasingconsumergoodslikepressurecookersetc.

     ii)    Thereis no real senseof conservationof environmentand ecologyinthis
            project. instead it will createmore bio-pressurei4 the formof increased
            cattleandanimals.




                                         13

        iii)   TheEco-developmentprogrammesin the fiingelacksthe perspectivesof
               degradedforest revenues,grazing and communitylandsdevelopment.It
               lacksthe perspectiveof eco-developmentof agriculturallandinthe formof
               watersheddevelopment,soil and water conservation,bio-massincreasein
               the area,etc.

       iv)     Thegovt. too doesn't have proper policy,laws regulationsand guidelines
               forthe ecologicalenvironmentaldevelopmentofthese areas.

       v)      It is a tragedy that eco-developmentprogrammehas been tuned      into a
               developmentprogramme.


How the "voluntary" relocation will effect the integrity   of the tnrbalcommunities
and is beine done without the consent of the peoile


One of the centralassumptionsof the Eco-Developmnent  Project isthe assumptionthat the
tribalpeopleofNagarholeshouldbe relocatedvoluntarilywhilethe factisthatthe bulkof
the tribalpeopleare not willingto relocate.

For        ce the tribal people of Nagarholemadeit very clearto the WorldBankTeam
consistingof Mr. DavidMead,Mr. RidleyNelsonand Mr       Satish(whovisitedthe parkin
2-3July, 1998)that theyoppose evacuationfromtheirtraditionalhabitat.A    fieldstudyby
Prof MK Ramesh of the NationalLaw Schoolof IndiaUniversity,Bangalore(between
1996-97) has also come to similarconclusion.The tribal people     have timeand again
stressedthat theyare not willingto moveout theirtraditionalhomelandsandteritories.

The WorldBank SARmaintainsthat, " relocationunder the      projectwillbe voluntaryin
the sensethat it would diivenby the wishesof the local   peopleand planningwilltake
placeinthe contextof optionsthat wouldnotinvolverelocation"

In the context of the above we would like to bring to your     notice a proposaltitled
'Centrally Sponsored Beneficiaryfor relocation of Tribals   of NationalPark" by the
KarnatakaForestDepartment(WldlifeDivision,Hunsurforthe        period'1997-2000.( see
Annexure).Thisschemewhichis for 50 tribalfiumiliesis a part     of a lager planfor the
relocationof 1550familiesovera periodof three years-    532 inthe firstyear.550 inthe
second year and 468 year in the third year . A provision      has been made for Rs.
53200,000for the implementationof this schemefor the firg     year. A total amountof
1,931Ha is proposedto be releasedfromreserveforestsfor     this purpose.of which 731
Ha hasalreadybeenreleasedso far.

Thisappearsto be contradictoryto the proposalscontainedinthe     StaffAppraisalReport
(1996)andreaffirmedina lerterof Ms. JessicaMott   of the WorldBankto Mr.RoyDavid
of CORD<Kushalnagar( Dt 18thJune 1996)inwhich she stressesthat "         anyproposals



                                           14

for voluntaryresettlementwillbe prepared and implementedin accordancewith criteria
agreewiththe Bankandafterprior approvalbythe Bank.Because,the schemementioned
above has been preparedwith no participationor consent and knowledgeof the tribal
peopleof Nagarhole.Therehavebeenno discussionswiththe concemedtribalpeopleand
the only NGOs inchargedby the Forest Department(U            IndianInstitutefor Tribal
Educationand LIFT,LivingInspirationfor Tnbals) to convincethe peoplesto agreeto
the resetement werenewto the tribalpeopleof that areasand apparentlycreatedforthis
purpose.Howeverthe fiftyfamiliesmentionedinthe schemewho seemto haveagreedfor
resettlementarereportedto be staffof the ForestDepartment.

In addition the relocationwill erode their tenure rights and will contradictingthe WB
directivesand the agreementwith the GOI that ensurethat 'indigenouspeoplesdo not
suffer adverse effects during the developmentprocess and that they receiveculturally
compatiblesocialand economicsbenefits' (OD 4.20, art. 6), and make surethat 'the
process would address tribal concernsin an integralfashionunderthe rubricof social
impacts,participationand equity, rather than as a subsidiarytribal developmentplan or
component"(SAR 1996par.33).

Anotherproblemof the projectwillbethat inrelocating peoples, therewillbe a division
of tribal communitiesfrom withinthcir traditionalterritoriesleadingto senousconflicts
betweendifferentsclansthat ire resettledin the sameplace,as seemsto be proposedby
thisproject.

Wewould liketo know,if the above schemehas the approvalof the WorldBankor the
WorldBankis awareof and has given its consentto a proposalthat has beenprepared
withoutthe consentand participationof the bulk of the tnrbalpeople ofNagarhole.Our
organisationand NGOs worldng closely with the people of Nagarholehave not been
consultedor informedaboutthis scheme.

We would also like to blow if the budget for the above schemeis part of the money
releasedby the WorldBanktowardsthe implementationEco-DevelopemntProjectwhich
receivedadministrativeapprovalby the Governmentof Karnatakaon 20.11.1997( GO
No.FEE.134.FWL95.95.Bangalore).

We requestthe InspectionPanelto inquireintothe detailsof the proposedSchemeandits
roleinthe Eco Developmentproject

We also wonder whyany plansand specificinvestmentshas so far beennot preparedfor
the peoplethat do not wishesto move, in accordancewit the WB policyon" Village
Eco-development"(SAR-par.34 and 19).
Wehave leamtthat there is no menion of a planforthe tnbal peoplewhochooseto stay
insidethe forest.Thereislot of spacegivenror 'VoluntaryRelocation, but nomenionof
anyplan for"Supporiingthe livelihoodstrategies"or for "a participatoryinvolvementof
these peopleinthe poolmanagement.




                                          is

Thisis a seriouslapsefoundin the staffAppraisalReport andraisesquestionsregarding
the participatorymethodsemployedin preparingthe project.We requestthe inspection
panelto investigateintothese discrepancies.

Theattitudeof the Bank of relocatingpeopleoutsidethe forest is contradictingthe main
purpose of biodiversityconservation, by not giving considerationto the close links
betweenthe tribalsandthe forest ecosystem It also clearlyshowsthe vacuuminpolicies
andinvestmentsplannin forthe peoplesleavinginsidethe parkboundaries.

In conclusion,we wouldlike to reiterate that the abovehas beenput togetherin a veiy
short period availableto us and bas not gone into details.We believethat this and the
discussionswe have with the Panel will provide the basis for a more detailed
investigationthat will look into the issues we have raised and come to concrete
conclusionsaboutthe fiture ofthe Eco-DevelopmentProject

Thanking You.

Your's Sincere)y\


J-L.Subramnani                                                 J.K.Babu
Nagarhole           JanaraHakku StapanaSamithi                 B.KS. Kodagu



 4 Roy David                                                   J.P.Raju
CORD                                                           KLRMB.V.



S. Sreekant                                                          iuskr
DEED                                                           I.C.I.T.P




Nanjundia                                                     JX. Kenchaiah
FedinaVikasa                                                  N.B.RS.S.


                  H
                  TW.    AI)                                     XAC      0fZ


                                       SiL,,  (>Cr>>4R,)     .B.X S. Mysore Dst.'

                ~   ~       - sT5a 001.




                                            16

        z
        z
i~~~   mi

                                                                        JOth   iMk-arch. 1'?99


The Inspection Panel,
World Bani>,
1B1Ge H Street,!
N.W.    Washinatori.          D.CL
20433:      J . *3. A .


We.-The Nagarahole                Dudaik:attu Jarnara Ha>':usthapana                  Samithy
(NBJHS}         who represent          the tribal people living in                 tne     area
k1nown      as Rajive Gandhi National Part, Nagarahole                         !   Karnataka
State,      India. claim the following                 for yoLtr due          consideration
ano favourable disposal.

1..  It   is .3     nown      fact that the Global Environmental                     Facility
(GEF)       and      International          Developmient Agencv (IDA,) of                World
Bank has aoproved on 5th September.                       19'96, the financing of an
Eco-Development               Project       to the tune of U.S.$.              6U    million!
comprising          7 Protected          .-reas of bio-diversity            in    India,     of
which, The Rajive Gandhi National Fark, Nagarahole                                 extending
over b43.39 Sq. k.m, to the south of Coorg & Mysore districts
of karnataka state. is one. (map attached).

2.    l'he perplexing            logic and pressures           for     the     introduction
of the project are stated as " Irndia's bio-diversity                                is rich,
often Lunique and increasingly                   endangered.        India is one of the
12    magadiversity              coLLntries in the world              that     collectively
 CcLoLurnt      for 60-70% of             world's      bio-diversity .....            India's
biological             resources         are    economically           important;          both
globally         and nationally.           Many   species      of crop        plants     found
world-wide             and     their      wild    relatives        originate         on     the
suLbcontinent...... The                  biodiversitv         in      India's        forests,
grasslands.             wetland          and    marine      ecosystem          faces      many
pressures.          These include grassing cattle, cutting                         of    trees
for     fuel  5     timber      and    non-timber      forest      products    5     hunting,
uncontr-olled          forest     fires    and   conversion       and    spill   over     from
agricultural              infrastructure.           industrial           and     commercial
development.           India's      high    level  human      population       density      and
growth,         high      incidence        o; poverty         and     large     numbers      ot
livestock,             speed      the     degradation.         Local        people,       when
traditional             rights         and      access      are       limited        by     the
establishment           of Protected         Areas, often have little incentive
to    use       natural resources            in a sustainable            way..... (      India
Eco-Development               Project:        Project         Information          Document5
March,22,        1996 -pp 1-2)
                                                                 contd ....... /2.

      We Liriderstand      that  World Bank has clear cut policies     and
directives      for the implementation       of such a project.    Besides
givina due attention           to safeguard  hLmarn rights   aspects,  the
Operational      Directives      4.20 and   4.30 clearly tell the policy
directives       with reaard to       the consideration   for   IndigenoLus
Populiation      and      their involuntary   resettlement.     There  are
serious      violatiorns ot      Human Riohts as well as of World     Bank
Policy Directives          in the proposed Eco-Development     Project.

4.     The   affected indigenous        population of the    project  area
whom we represent and the supportive            NGOs have been    opposing
the implementation          of this project, and now place our      strong
protest       before       the   Inspection   Fanel,   on  the   following
grounds:

a) Human Rights Violations:

i)     India   has been a signatory        to the  U.N.   Declaration   of
      Forced    Evictions        since 26.8.1991  and is dLity bound    to
       honour    that commitment      which explicitly states that     the
       "ultimate responsibility"         for preventing evictions "rests
      with    the government"       and "Forced Evictions constitLute    a
      gross violation         of Human  Rights"........"Conscious     that
      governments        often seek to disguise   the violence that    mav
      be   associated         with forced evictions   by using   terms  as
                  progress and development"
                  ........                        And again. "Aware that
       forced     evictions       canr be   carried    out.    sanctioned,
      demanded,     proposed,     initiated or tolerated by a number of
      actors,       including       but  not   limited    to    occupation
      authorities,         national   governments,    local   governments.
      developers,        planners,  landlords .and               bilateral
      and     international         financial   institutions     and   aid
      agencies".         The World Bank India Eco-Development      Project
      attacks the very spirit of the above Declaration.

ii) The actions of the World Bank together with the               national
      and   Karnataka         state  governments   collectively    violate
      Articles 3,12,13 and 14 of the I.L.O. Convention ratified
      by   India      as    well as 26   other   countries,    related  to
      protection          of    properties,    respect    for    customary
      procedures         of transmission   of traditional    ownership  of
      lands,    obligation       of the state to securing ownership     or
      use of lands belonging         to tribals, obligation of state to

                                                       contd ...  /3

      undertake      special measurers        to protecinstitutions,persons
      property       and labour of the indi.en                   communities.        ano
      wnen     they are to be displaced            in national interests,             to
      be    rehabilitated          in an environment         similar to      the     one
      from where thev have to be displaced

iii).The      World Bank with the sanctioning                of the project
      has also become a corroborator               in violating        the special
      Lonstitutional          Rights     &   Privileges         accorded     to      the
      tribals        in India, especially          the provisions for           Tribal
      Self-Rule,        under      the Panchayath       Raj Act      (Extension       to
      Scheduled         Areas),      1992.    which      provides         for     self-
      governance      of tribal       dwelling areas.

The     proposed Eco-Development            project cover-s a total area              of
6.714      sq.k.m.      comprising      the 7 Protected          Areas     and    Tiger
Reserves       in the states of Bihar, Gujarat, K'arnataka, Madhya
Pradesh,       Rajasthan,        West   Bengal   and    herala     and     having     an
affected      tribal population         of 48,800. The World Bank              Project
Report      has  not    shown    any  tribal   population        as  living    in    the
"core areas" of Nagarahole              National Park! where as there                are
58    tribal settlements           inside the park with a            population       of
d145      and   who     belono     to   different       communities        like    Jenu
KurUbas,      Betta Furubas     4   Yeravas,     and    Soligas. with        distinct
culture       and  identity. Mt the same time the report insist                       on
"rehabilitation         of tribals from the core areas by                  developing
"voluntary      reallocation        opportunities       for people"        especially
based     on the "wishes of local people". The concept of                       "local
people        is     used     ambiguously          giving        convenience         for
misinterpretation          and thus for the dislocation              of the tribals
forcefully.

O. Violation       of World Bank Directives:

i).   The World Bank Operational             Directives       4.20 clearly
      spells out that any development               project implemented            have
      to       be     socially        and     culturally          compatible          to
      Indigenous/tribal            groups    who have distinct            social     and
      cultural     identity from that of the dominant society. This
      policy directive         is conveniently        discarded      in the case of
      the   proposed     Eco-Development       Project.

      It    is   a world-widely        accepted     truth     that     the   cultural
      traditions,            social      order      and       the       values        of
                                                                 contd ...     /4

                              -4_

    indiaenous/tribal   societies  nave tiourisned throuch their
    maintaining    a life-style in symbiotic   relationship       witn
    the    nature   and  forests.   They   have  been   the       real
    protectors   or conservators  of the forests through out       the
    history until otherwise    in instances manipulated and made
    use of them by outside     dominating  forces (which has been

    an extensively   continLuing process in the modern times and
    cited   as examples of forest destruction     by   Adivasis!).
    And   uprooting   them from their forest    habitats;-     their
    socio-cultural    life  base -  for any  sort  of   so    called
    "development    project" is   not only the total    denial      of
    their fundamental   human rights, but also pushing them         tc
    gross ethnocide.

ii) 'The above mentioned Operational   Directive  of World Bank
    also tell that there shoLld be "informed participation"
   of    the   affected  Indigenous/Tribal    groups    and      NGOs
    involving     for  their   development,   in   the    planning
   and implementation    of such development   projects. In the
    case   of the proposed project;-   at least in Nagarahole        -
   any     Lucn  meaningiul process        t  been
                                              b:n    taken   place.
    What has taken place is a meeting of the-concerned people
   with    the   World Bank r-epresentatives   on  09-08-1996       at
    Aranya        Bhavan, Mysore, where the people;- with their
   grievances    and reasoning   with an alternate People's Plan
    for   the conservation  ot  bio-diversity  and protection       of
    the forests in Nagarahole    -  were unheard and unheeded
    to.   What   overtonned were the   versions   of   the   Forest
   Officials.    Nor did the visit of World Bank Representative
   Ms. Jessica Mott to the project area in January-February,
    1996,   did   have any discLussions with the   local    people,
   other than hearing the versions     of the Forest Department.
   This,    coupling with the mention of there not      being     any
    tribal population in the "core area"of the National          Park
   and    then providing for "voluntary    dislocation   of    local
    people"    in the project report   account for    the   dubious
   intention     of the project.  It is also learned that      World
   Bank is informed to the effect of discussions       having been
   taken    place   with  concerned  local   NGOs  and  of     their
   assured co-operation    for the implementation    of the
   project.   This is a false information    and some of the

                                               contd ...  /5

    orominent  local NGOs have protested against it and
    written   directly   to  the World  Bank   for     having  been
    misquoted  as participants  to such consultations/
    discussions.

iii)World Bank Operational   Directive No.4.30 deals with the
    policy and procedures   on involuntary  resettlement and the
    conditions   to  be met in such situations.      These   policy
    directives   and procedLures are evaded by   not     mentioning
    the  tribal habitats   inside Nagarahole National      Park  in
    the project report to World Bank. This evidently shows
    the intention of the concerned   authorities   for forceful
    eviction of the tribal population    from the project     area.
    Threats and pressure tactics are already in force in this
    regard.

iv) The project paper says that the project would be "owned
    by       Indians". There is the question who would "really
    own"  it-   the government?  the tribals? or     the   masses?.
    Since World Bank has overlooked    the existence of     tribals
    in the core area, it is understood    that the project     will
    not  be handed over to    the tribals. This, together      with
    the  purposiveness    to circumvent  the World     Bank  policy
    directives  referred above, account for the World Bank and
    the  Government  of India neither inviting    nor     involving
    the tribals of Nagarahole   during the negotiations     of  the
    project.   Every deal is being kept under cover       and  even
    the texts have not been translated       into local language
    for fear of the disclosure   of the details.

Other Implications:


i)    The   proposal    in   the   project    for      "   bio-mass
    constitution/generation"     as  a means   to           "foster
    alternative    livelihoods,   resource   use  and      specific
    measurable    actions    by   local    people      to   improve
    conservation"   might imbalance  the ecology of the      forest
    especially   when  new   varieties    of  plants/trees      are
    planted    in  place   of  traditional   one.    This    is   a
    deliberate   move to bring back "Social Forestry"       to  the
    centre  stage   which   has   earlier   caused      irreparable
    damages to the rural economy of Karnataka.

                                            contd .....   /6

ii) The stress on "mana ing enterprise                     and visitor enclaves"
          has       opened      up  a new     enterprise    system     called   "Eco-
          Tourism"       in the forest area. This has provided scopes for
          big       industrialists     to operate     their star hotels      in    the
          midst         of      the  forests.      Taking     this      advantageous
          opportLunity,          the Karnataka    state  government      has   leased
          out       its    Jungle   Resorts    and adjacent    lands     at  Moorkal
          inside         the      park   to    Taj   Groups     of    Hotels       and
          constructions            by  them are    in   progress     for   luxLuriOus
           facilities        for  the tourists.    The tribals     of the area     are
          mounting         rigorous    protests and struggles         against     this
          move on the grounds that the eco-tourism                enterprise      will
           fulrther alienate          them from      the    forests,     superimpose
          alien         culture,l     link     the   tribal     communities       with
          consumerism,          increase unemployment,      destroy the     ecology,
          and further         more,  provide    spaces  for  the  dominant     forces
          tc       appropriate     the forests     both  for    genetic    resources
          and entertainment.

rhe Appeal:


In the context of blatant Human Rights violations and rampant
negligence             of World Bank Policies and Directives involved               as
detailed            above. we appeal to the Inspection Panel to              abandon
the         proposed         Eco-Development      Project    and    in   place,     to
seriously              consider     for due implementation       of    the People's
Plan               we   have     developed     conducive    to   our     ethos     and
traditional              culture,     for     the  eco-development/conservation
process of Nagarahole National Park. (Annexure-1.)

Conclusion:
___________


Conscious              of the hidden agenda       in the World Bank aided         Eco-
development              Project     in    its present form,       the   tribals    of
Nagarahole,              have been making strong appeals and protests               to
the         concerned authorities           and also to the World Bank         .   The
copies of such documents are also annexed herewith (Annexure-
2).         In      the absence of any favourable          response, we     have    no


                                                                 contd ...      /7

                  .:-7




other  waY than resorting to appropriate   means   of  struggles
against  the  implementation  of the project. And this will   be
a  "struggle unto death", for we prefer to die     with  dignity
fighting  to retain our "home lands" and identity, rather than
allowing  others to "kill" us.

Anticipating   +avourable consideration    to our this   appeal,
We remain,

Yours faithfLU ly,




.i.   S    amanian,
President,
Nagarahole  Budakattu Janara Hakkusthapana  Samithi,
Nagarahole.

Annexures:  1. Nagarahole People's Plan.
            2. Copies of   previous correspondance/appeals.

 PEOPLES' PLAN FOR PRESERVATION OF ADrYASI AND NAGARAHOLEFORESTSI
                                             KARNATAKA




The Peoples' plan for Nagarahole is the outcome of decadeo of adivasistrugglewiththe State in
protecting their culturalidentityandassertingthemselvesas the real agents of conservationof a pristine
nature cover which is also their habitat. The Plan has evolved in its current shape after a series of
discussions with the entire adivasi populationof Nagaraholeandis basedontheir longcherisheddrearn
of recognition of their rights by the State.

Through this plan, the adivasi offer a viable alternativeto protecting the forests and their own
ethnicity and seek the confidence of the State in evolving a social fence involvingthe adivasi in
conservation efforts.The Plan has its genesis in the sustained efforts of the State inforcible eviction
of the adivasifromtheir habitat


The Plan has ev6lvedwith the ongoing adivasi struggle in Karnataka for assertion of their rights,
stalling the efforts of the environmentalists at painting the adivasi to be the biggest threat to
conservation of Nagarahole. Thoughthe legislationof the Bhuria Committee recomrnendationsby the
Parliament has provideda fresh impetus to the adivasi struggle nation-wide,the People's Plan was a
natural outcomeof the adivasistruggleagainstTajResorts at Murkal andefforts at forcibleimposition
of the IndiaEco DevelopmentProject bythe WorldBank in connivancewiththe Governmentin 1996.

This Plan is offered as a model for the world in co-relating the adivasiidentitywith conservation
endeavorseven as self styled environmentalists,incapable of fighting the true threatsto the meagre
nature coversinthe form or organized mafia,target the adivasipopulation asthe primedestroyersof the
precious wildlifereserves.-

The Plan, in anutshell, lays stress on communityparticipation in conservation and preservation of
the cultural identitv of dyingendogamous groups which offer wisdom for thefuture.          _


                                            CHAPTER ONE

INTRODUCIION

For centuries, the adivasi traditions and culturalidiom.sremained thetouchstoneof valuesystems of
World Civilisations. But, the consumptivematerialistic lifestyle of 20th cenbty triggeredoff rapid
destruction of the envirorrnent and degeneration of values. This resulted in a global awareness
regardingthe need for preservation of the earth and its ecological balance.Understandablynow, the
adivasivaluesystemsare seen asthe onlywayto save earth and preserve human sanityduringthe 21St.
century andbeyond.The situationis no different inIndia.


The Common Indian and the adivasi always lived in harmony with nature, each dependingon the
forests only for their bare sustenance.But duringrecent decades the adivasiand the common Indian
parted ways, with the adivasimaintaining a unique lifestyle which is dependentsolely on the forests
andbased on a symbioticrelationship with the forests and the livingthings in it. Simultaneously,the
forests have preservedthe traditionaladivasiwisdom

The materialistic lifestyle based on consumptive desires, developedby those livingoutside,beganto
tell on the forests andits flora andfaunaduring the early part of the current century.The adivasibegan
to be targeted for their resistance to such irreversible destruction of the forests. But,untouchedby
these developments, the adivasi have preserved their remarkable cultural identity, nurturing an
 tinbreakablebond withnature. It is the British who brought about a perceptionalchange in the Indian
towardsthe forests andthe adivasi.For the British, forests andwildlife,be it the flora or the fauna, was
a resource to be exploited and the adivasiexpendable 'junglees'.Free Indiaadoptingthe British model
of conservation, brushingaside indigenous knowledge and wisdom, continued the destruction. The
forests andthe forest dwellers, fromthe adivasito the wildlife, havebeen at the receivingend.The self
assertion of the adivasiwhich begannation widetowards the laterhalf of the 20th century nowremains
theonlyhope

ROLE OF THE BRMTISHRAJ &THE EARLYDAYSOF INDEPEN1DENCE

The British brought in conmnercialexploitation of the forest cover into the sub-continent.If forest
trees were cut for timberandhectors andhectors of forest turned into teakplantations,the wildanimals
became their objects of pleasure during their hunting expeditions in search of trophies. The adivasi
became 'funny and curious creatures'.They legitimized their acts by bringing in the 1877 Forest Act.
Badly,this anti-peopleact,whichwas formulated with the sole objective of filling the coffers of the
Crown, continues to be the touchstone of the Nation's forest laws eventoday. This brought untold
miseries to the adivasiandaided unabated state sponsored destructionof the forests duringthe fifties
andthe sixties. Anewbreedcalled forest contractors came into existenceandmany arenowmillionaires
at the expense of the Nation's forests. The wild animals became target of the poachers, who
exploited the laws andbeganto caterto commercial markets of skins and body parts of wild animals.
The destruction of the forests andthe woes of the adivasi increasedmanifold with extensivemining
operations andconstructionof Megadams andreservoirs. The cormmercialloot of forest wealthby the
Govemrnentand its agencieswithoutanythought being given towardssustainingit had a direct impact
on the life of adivasi.The adivasi,whohad nurtured their precious home lands across the country by
putting off forest fires and carefully maintaining the ecological balance through indigenous
parameters like nurturingmedicinalplants,hunting food based on there-generationcycle andleadinga
life style without disturbingthe forests, had their umbilical cord violently severed.Many indigenous
cultures died and fewtribal communities disappeared.       Only few Adivasi communitieslike Bhirsa
Mfundaand Santhal tribes of CentralIndia resisted this loot of the forests and destruction of their
habitat However, this meagre resistance was not enoughto pushback the British bulldozer and the
forest cover began to shrink. md undisturbed forests tumed into teak. plmatations. Mmy animals
and birds became extinctand those still living
figure on the endangeredlist.

But this adivasiresistance in CentralIndiaheralded the freedom strugglefor the Nation andthe British
also grantedpartial autonomy anddeclared these regions as 'scheduled areas' reconising the adivasi
rights and capability to manage and enjoy the resources in a sustainable manner.However,the woes
of the adivasi in free Indiahas also been a storv of untold misery and struggle with independentIndia
refusing to recognise boththis right and capability of the Adivasinot only in CentralIndiabut also in
other pats of theNation.

TIE GOVERNMENTPOLICIES:

Directly related to the decayof adivasi cormrnunitiesand destruction of indigenouscultures is the
shrinking forest cover. The worldwide cry for wildlife conservation in the sixties and early seventies
shook the Indian Governmentto takestock of the home realities. However,the resultantWildlife Act
of 1972 only heightenedthe miseries of the adivasi. The Act recognised only the need for preserving
thewildlife. The forest dwellers and their rights were curtailedandevenforcibly displaced. ¶Forests
are only for the animalsandforest dwellers are agents of destruction ', became the !mantra'of the
government. This formalised theforced evictions of the forest dwellers on the one hand,andushered
in the era of Sanctuaries and protected areas on the other. Adivasi carne under tremendous state
sponsored pressure to leave their habitat and many adivasicom...unitiesfell prey to the hawksof the

village societies. But, the       eighties revealed the naked failure of these protection efforts with
 evaluationsshowing more and more ur-easof denudatioL The Goverrnmentgrudgingly acceptedthis
harsh truth and acknowledgedthe vital role indigenous communities in sustainingthe forests. The
outcome of this institutional acceptanceof groundrealities is the Forest Policy of 1988.Acceptedand
acknowledgedacrossthe boardby one andall,this policyhas

(a) 'meeting the requirementsof fuel wood, fodder,minor forest produce andsmalltimberof the rural
andtribal population',as its basic objective.

(b) 'to ensure environmentalstability and ecological balance includingatmosphericequilibriumwhich
are vital to sustenance of all life fomis, human,animal and plant The derivationof direct economic
benefitmustbe subordinatedto this.         , as itsprinciple aim.


fc,  'The rights and concessions from forests should primarily be for the bona fide use of the
conmmunitylivingwithin and around the forest areas specially the tribal.......If the principle is
accepted that entry of private persons into forest for collecting fuel is to be avoided, alternative
arrangementsfor fuel supply through depots can be augrnented.In makingthese changesrights and.
interests of tribal shouldbe fullyprotected', as its forest managementstrategy.

(d) 'Havingregardto the symbioticrelationship betweenthe tribal people andthe forests, a primarytask
of agenciesresponsiblefor forest managemenL.....shouldbe to associate the tribal peoplecloselyin the
protection, re-generationand developmentof forests.           ,as its focus on tribalpeopleandforests.

 THE GROUNDREALIlIES:

 But, despite this stated policy of the Govern, ent, the forest laws in operationcontinueto be based
on the repressive Act of 1972. The proposed amendmentsto this Act in 1991 also did not reflect the
State Policy either in its letter or spirit Consequently,the state has takenaway the forest rights of the
40 lakh plus Forestdwellers who are livinginside the 521 tribal habitats declared as Sanctuariesand
NationalParkscovering4.25 percent of the total landarea inthe country.Caught in the vortexof this
double speak of Government's conservation paradigm in practice to date, nearly 25 % of the Eight
crore adivasipopulationhave been violently uprooted and their cultures disintegrated.The adivasi
living inside the nationalparks have been declared illegal residents by the forest laws.As for those
living inside Sanctuaries, the forest department has sought to illegitimate their presencewith the
GJovernmentgiving its tacit approval for forced evictions.If one follows the current provisionsof
lawto its letter andspirit, as manyas Five million adivasiwill join the 20 million already displaced
from their naturalhabitat.

 This cunulative failure of the Governmental agencies resulted in the involvementof many peopler'
organizations and activist groups in protectioh of indigenous cultures and conservation of the green
cover in the 80's. The adivasi assertion of rights over their natural habitat as per the constitutional
guarantees and the current demand for self-rule are indictors of this adivasi struggle against the
oppressiveForest lawsandinsensitiveGovernment.


 FtE NErEDFOR ADIVASIPARTICLPATIOM:

The experiencewithforest conservation during the last Fifty years clearly establishes the need for
participationof the adivasiin the conservation efforts. In fact, it will be more appropriateif the adivasi
themselves are to manageand sustaintheir naturalhabitat The forest department whichhaspersonnel
whoare 'paid servants'has failed in its brief as the personnel do not have anyemotional attachment
with the forests nor are they mentally tuned to conservingthe forests, belongingas they do to a
departmentwhichwasbom for commercial exploitation of the 'resources'. This apart fromthe lack of
indigenous knowledgeregarding the forests which the adivasipossess. MvIorestartling a reality is the
widespreadcorruptionwithin the forest department, which has come to* be establishedbeyond any
reasonable doubt There can be no better testimony to thistruth thanthe reduction in the forest cover



                                                                                                       3

anddenuded forests, andteakplantations after decades of 'scientific' conservationeffoits by the forest
department. A crucialaspect,generally forgotten as the obvious, is the fact thatthe persomel of the
forest bureaucracy belongto the cotsumptive culture and perceives the forest as that to be protected
after his material needs aremet. Forest department, for all its claimsof scientific managementof the
forests, appearsto havecrystallised into a sales outlet for forest produce.Protected areas turned into
nurseries for timberyieldingTeak, Eucalyptus, Sal, Sissu, and Khair trees. Thus,rampant poaching.
timber smugglinganddenudedforests cast a dark shadowof doubt onmanagement of forests by Forest
department                      without                      peoples'                     participation.


 ADIVASIANDCONSERVATION:

 Adivasi perception of conservation, on the other hand, needs no explanation.Havingsustained the
forests over centuries, they have evolved a 'low desire level'((IL) lifestyle which enablesthem to
live in unique harmony withnature.Rather than being mere watchmenof the forests as the Goverrnment
agencies have been,the adivasirealises asd inherits the sensibilitiesregardingthe conservation and
sustenance of the bio diversity. These endowments of the Nagaraholeadivasiis seen in their lifestyle
right from their sketchydwellinghutfnentsto their food collectinghabits.The huts of these adivasi is
seen constructed utilising onlydeadwoodand dry leaves.As a tradition they do not cut branchesof live
trees for anypurpose includingtheir fuel requirernents. During the past decades, the adivasihad a
migratory lifestyle like most forest beings moving from one locationto the other within a specified
area in order to help re generationof the forests. However, withthe shrinkingforest cover, the adivasi
also adopted lifestyles based on the behaviour of the animals and instead of micrating the adivasi
himself moved to distantocations to return with their daily requirements. The medicinal plants
which the adivasiuse are naturc's gifts and after their movementwashampered,the adivasibegan to
spread the seed aroundto havethese plants available in more than one location.        The conservation
idioms of the Adivasiis also seen intheir hunting practices. The JenuKuruba never takes the honey
completely fromthe honeycombinorder to ensure that the bees didnot suffer andthe productiondoes
not come to an abrupt end.Similarly,the tubers and other roots on which adivasi sustain are never
uprooted fully andis usedensuringthat the mother plants surviveandreproduce.And the rare hunts on
whichthe adivasiembarkis guidedby availabilityof left leftovers left behindby the carnivores.Contrary
to the popularperceptionthatthe adivasiare junglees using bows and arrows,the adivasiuse onlynud
balls and other traps to stunsmall preys and use stones and sticks to move away from elephants and
other animals.The adivasi also donot fear thnebeings of thewildas they have a deep rooted belief that
the beings of thewildare spirits of their ancestors andwouldonlyprotectthemr


   The conservationsensibilitiesof the adivasi are also seen in their ritualsandtheir songs.The adivasi
ritual revolves aroumdsacred trees and the use of forest vegetationis predominant.The sori's of the
adivasialso center aroundthe forest bio diversity and focus on the changing seasons with each tree
and each being of the forests being worshipped. The adivasi also worshipmany animals such as
elephants and snakesandnurturethe firm belief that all the beings and life species of the forests are
nurtured andprotected by the presidingspirit 'Ajjappa'.Hence, it isbeyond doubt thatthe adivasiare
psrt of the forest eco system and there can be no conservationwithout them. Thedependenceof forest
personnel on the adivasifor putting off forest fires, for trackinganimals and identifying the flora &
faunais areality not disputed.Thismust secure primacy for preservationof anyeco-systenmL

During this era of globalwarming and acid rains, preservation of adivasi culture and traditions
acquire greater relevanceforthe survivalof mankind itself. Iheir sustainable agriculturalpractices and
life which have over centuries keptthe forests intact and left small pockets of earth undistur6edare
parameters for future living, Hence, preservation of adivasi culture, traditions and the adivasi
themselves in their natural habitat acquires a special significanceandhasto become a special areaof
focus in anyconservationexercise.

Forests have never beenamusementparks for the adivasi. The forestshavealwaysbeen andcontinues
to be their habitat They have an emotional empathy with the forests as any individualis patriotic



                                                                                                     4

about his countty.This givesthem a moral legitimacyto 'nurture'the forests and those who are out to
'manage' forests through Eco tourism, National Parks and at all cannot shut thernselvesout of this
reality.


TEE NEW WORLDORDER                 & CONSERVATION:

 The new economic order being pushed to the ThirdWorld by the leadingeconomic powers of the
world poses fresh threats to the common land resources. The rapidliberalisation of the Indian
economy aimed at achieving growth through industrialisation, by soliciting multi national
companies to come andopenshop, puts tremendouspressures on theNation'sbiotic resources,

 Apart frombringinginamaximumdegree consumptivelifestyle ()DCL) amongthe outsidesocieties,
in contract to LDL, and selling them using the brutal idioms of market economy, these countries
have targeted the bio divene resources of the developingcountries as potential rich pockets of
earth to be colonized,throughtheworld economic bodies whichthey control.

Coming in the garb of good Samaritans with concern for conservation, after havingdestroyed and
utilised the resources to the hilt attheir endof the planet, these forces throughtheir MNCagentsand
pliable state govenments are zooming in on marketing these bio diversities and establishing
ownership on them.TheBritish model of seeing forests as a resource base to be exploitedrather than
being conserved is now seen transformed in the forrn of international cormmercialandbusiness
houses entering into the 'arena' of 'green industrial revolution', motivated by the lucrativebusiness
propositions andtherefore -marketing'tree andvegetation growth' in different hues andformns.Thisthe
adivasirecognise as thechallengeof thenewhorizon.


                                            CHAPTER     WO

TBE NATARAHOLEFORESTS

Negareholeforests inKarnatakaspread overMysore andKodagudistricts is astretchof precioustropical
semi ever green forests nurturedby the Dravidian indigenous people over centuries. Declaredby the
Govemment as a NationalPark, comprisingan area of 643.39 sq.kmr,in 1975, it was christened as
Rajiv anMdhiNationalPark fiveyears ago.The forests are nowseen as a part of the Nilgiri Biosphere,
whichcomorises anextendedadivasihomelandof 5,500 sq.krns The Nagarahole is surroundedby River
Kabirri which divides the forests from the Bandipur TigerProject in the South-East, the Wayanad
Wildlife Sanctuaryof Keralain the South, the BrahrnagiriWildlife Sanctuaryin the South-Westandthe
CDoffeeplantationsofKodaguinWest andthe Mavukalreserve forests intheNorth.Thedryfarmlandsof
the Deccan plains to theEast is the onlynon-forest stretch abuttingNagarahole,

The Nagaraholeon theinnerfrills of the Westem Ghats and abutting into thesoutherntips of the Deccan
plateau receives anaveragerainfall of 50 to 70 inches each year. The Nagaraholeis a bio reserve of
hardwood, the Big catsanditspreys,Elephants anda rangeof indigenous Dravidiantribes. Hard wood
species such as Adina. Dalbergia, Terminalia, Pterocarpus and Careya, to name a few, makes
Nagarahole a valuable green cover on earth. The divergent riches of wildlife sheltered by the
Nagarahole include Langur,Jackal,Hyena, Hare, Gaur, Fox, Wild Dog, SpottedDeer, MouseDeer,
Barkihg Deer, SmallIndian Civet, Jungle Cat, Wild boar, Leopard, Giant Flying Squirrel, Sambar,
Porcupine,Pang Olin,SlenderLois andmanymore apart fromthe Tiger andElephant.Awide variety df
reptiles andbirds anda widerange of vegetation embellish Nagarahole, which is also the abode of
indigenous dravidiantribes such as Jenu Kuruba, Betta Kuruba,Paniya and Panjari Yeravaand Soliga
Nagarahole was the favouritehaunt of the Mysore Maharajawho were subservieit to the British The
Maharaja' huntingexpeditions in Nagaraholeperforce involvedthe adivasi whoused to accompanythe
Maharaja'parties duringtheir foraysinto the forests to huntTigers, Elephats, Leopards, Gars, Barking
Deer andWild Boars.ThefamousKhedda Operations in Nagarahole for trappingwildpachydemruwas
based solely on the expertiseof these indigenouspeople.


                                                                                                   S

The Old Mysore administrationdeclared a portion (284.16 sq.kms) of Nagarahole as a                rgm
sanctuary in 1955,heraldingin the era of protected areas in Karnataka.In 1975, the State Goverment
expanded the game sanctuary to cover 571.55 sq.kms and declared it as a national park. Further
expansionof theNationalParkto cover643.39 sq.krnsof Nagaraholecameaboutin 1988.The Park area
wa demarcatedinto Four zones namely Core, BufFer,Tourism andRestorationZones for restricting
the movement of touristsandpurportedly tor conversation needs.For administrativepurposes, the Park
area was divided into Sevenblockl called Ranges, namely Mathigodu,Kallahallaand Nagarahole in
Kodagu district andMetikuppe,Kakanakote,Sunkadakatte andVeeranahosahalliin Mysore district. Ihe
Park, area nestles 56 tribal hamlets called the 'Hadia' wlhich are inhabitedby more than 7,000
indigenous dravidian adivasi, belonging to Yerava, Paniya, Jenukuruba,Bettkuruba          and 3oliga
communities.Before Nagaraholewas declared as a National Park, these adivasilivingin harnony with
the wild flora andfaunasustainedthemselves on forest edibles like tubers,mushrooms,tender bamboo
shoots, honey,yamn,pumpkins,avarietyof greens andsmall games.

These edibles except forsmallgameswere later declared asminor forestproducebythe Governmentand
despite policy formulations have barred the adivasi from sustaining themselves with legal
pemissiveness. The indigenousmedicinesystems of these adivasibasedon forest produce such as wild
turmeric, wild gingerand'sarpaghandhi', a wild scrub, apart from manyother barks,roots and leaves
also flourished insidetheparkarea.

DESTRUCTION OF NAGARAHOLE:

More so duringthe 20 th centurythanearlier, Nagarahole has fallen victim tovariousforces which have
with the changingtimes inflictedvarying degrees of irreversible damagesto the bio diversityandleft
behind scars whichcontinueto destroythe forest to date. The tale of woeof Nagaraholewhich began
with the hunting expeditionof theMysore Maharajaand his British guests,aggravatedfurtherwhenthe
British appropriated the forests as Governnent property in an impropriety, using it also as a
convenient 'resource' basefor loot of pristine timber. The British perpetuatedthis destruction of the
forests          by          formulating          .laws          using        their         authority.

Simultaneous wasthe stamnpedeof therich coffee planters of Kodagu to Nagarahole,devouring forest
lands to expandtheir plantations.Theplanters continue the encroachmentto datewiththe administration
turning a blind eye. Major irigation darns like Kabini and Taraka of the post independence era
resulted in submergenceof largeportions of Nagarahole and displacementof asmanyas 500 adivasi fa-
mnilies.


The 90 sqIkmteakplantation,apart of what is now known as the NagaraholeNational Paik area,
stand mute testimnonyto the orgaiized destruction       engineered by the British These plantations,
tombstones of destruction of pristine tropical semi ever green forests, are now the match sticks
which igiite N'agarahole.each summer. The fires apart from creatinga scarcity of forage for the
herbivores, creates soil erosionandengineers irreparable damagesto theNagrahole bio diversity.

During the recent decades,high levels of corruption among the forest bureaucracyand the unholy          .
news betweenthem andpoachers andsmugglers has virtually destroyedlargetracts of Nagarahole and
many wild animals have Tallen victims to the guns of the poachers.And the laws still profess
conservation,by bureaucracy.

ECO TOUPISM &ECO DEVELOPMENT:

Oneof themajor intrusionsintoNagarahole, consequent to the acceptanceof British mindset of forest
as resource to be exploited for material needs, is eco-tourisrm A government domaintill the 80's,
the liberalization of theeconomy and opening of the nation's economic gates for outside invasionin
name of investmentshas resulted in the MNCs of the tourism industry casting a hawk's eye on



                                                                                                   6

N.Tagarahole floutingthe provisions of even the Wildlife Act. These MNCs includeboththe Indianand
Foreign companies.

Themodus operandiof these companies is to promise eco-developmentand'developmentV             of the adivasi
till they secure an entry into theForests for earning tourist revenue by meeting theconsurnptiveneeds
of nature tourists andpleasureseekers.     The first such onslaughton Nagaraholc by the Taj Groupof
hotels in 1996 was protested by the adivasi through a public interest litigation filed before the
Karnataka High colrt questioningthe eco tourism project keeping view the largerinterestof thetribal
residing inthe forest and theapprehension that thepromotingof such eco tourism will spell doom for
the precious undisturbedforest cover and will bring in modern day vices of the ultra urban culture.

The adivasi secured a landmaricjudgement by the court terming the resort project 'illegal' and
directing this Indian MNTCto hand over the property at Nagarahole to the Government Noting the
dangers of consumptivetourists andprojects such as resorts being destructive to the eco balance,
the court obsetves in its orders. 'The issues raised herein arequite fundamentalinnatureaffecting the
wider public interest requiring maintenance of             ecological      balance and environmcntal
requirements.....There isanabsoluteprohibition on the grantof such rights under Sec.20 read withSec
35(3) of the Wildlife     (Protection)Act ,1972'.

 hle adivasi reject all such projects funded by private business interests and intemationalmonetary
agencies like the World Bank and the 1MF, which promise to preserve           the ecological balanceand
sustain bio diversity. Some efforts in the       current decade by the forest departrnent and the
govertment topush through suchprojects, which were motivatedby market forces, anduse the same
to displace the adivasihavebeenforcefullyrejected, TheEco DevelopmentProject of theWorldBank-
GEFis one suchwhichhaszoomedin onNagarahole projectingthe cause of conservation andproposes
to gain a foothold in thenattral wealthof whathas been left untouchedby the forest departmnent       inthis
pristine nature cover. "he forest needs to be 'nurtured' andnot 'developed' or 'managed'aid is not a
resource to be exploitedbut a habitatto be sustained and preserved'-- This is the mantraof adivasiof
Nagarahole.

                                           CHAPTER THREE

NAGARAHOLE AND ADIVASI

Adivasi of Nagarahole are indigenous people of DravidianorigirLThoughthe presentdayrulers and
diehard environmentalistsbend backwardto disown the Nagaraholeadivasiof their habitat,the earliest
record documentingthepresenceof these indigenoustribes showthatadivasisuch asJenu Ktsuba,Betta
kuruba,Paniyas and Yeravashave hadNagarahole as their habitatsince Seventh century A D..British
.Anthropologist Thurston in his book 'Castes and Tribes of South India' (1909) deals with the
Nagarahole adivasi from an ethnographist's perception. He traces the ancestry of the Nagarahole
adivasi like Betta Kurubas,Yeravas and Jenukur-ubasin their habitat to the SeventhCenturyA D
basinghimself onthedataavailablethroughthe 1891 ' MadrasCensusReport'.

The 'Madras Census Report' shows that these adivasi are part of a large group of descendants of the
Pallavas, who were inhabitingthe then vast forest tracts of what is now known as the 'Nilgiri
Biospiere".  Over c:iLuries sizce UihenLU±eue  udivusi l1i;vecu.ie Lu be c-JiukediiL suiail pruLecUedureu
followingsustaineddestructionof their biosphere by variousraces which invadedthereafter.Manyfell
victims to the destruction of their habitatand onlythe adivasi survivinginside the Nagaraholeandother
forest pockets have their cultural identities, inextricablylinkedas it is to their habitat, intact. A few
who were forced out of their habitat have fallen victims to the dominant sections of the outside
societies sincethen.

Supporting these frugaldocumentaryevidences in thepossession of the mainstreamsocietiesis the life
and ethos of Nagarahole adivasi according to adivasi themselves. The traditions and history of the Jenu
Kuruba adivasi, according to adivasi elders revolves around 12 'Kotthis'      meaning different streams
which have similar characteristics and has over the years adopted the a homogeneous lifestyle and thus



                                                                                                         7

havecome to berecognised as the Jenukuruba adivasi. The story of thesejenu kurubaadivasi,as passed
 on bythe word of mouth over the centuries, revolves around Nagaraholeforests which hasbeen their
habitat for decades. The 12 jenukuruba strearns where spread over different locations within
Nagarahole like Gonigadde, Ganagooru, Siddapura              Hadlu, Ammnale,Lakkunda, Bargr         and
Billanahosahalli.The complete list is not availableas the recent decades haveseencertainjenu kuruba
 streamsdisappearingor merged withthe mainstream society abetted by the conservationlaws andthe
 ever increasing destruction and encroachnent of the forests by the farmningcommnunitiesand other
village societies,


  But, these streams whichhave disappeared are still remembered as part of jenu Kurubatraditions in
the form of 12 pillars which symbolizeeach 'Kotthi' in a marriagependal. Yet,these 12 'Kotthis' are
still alivein the forrmof the traditionalburial groundsandplaces of worship of their spirit 'Ajjappa'.
These spirits are invoked even to this day on everyauspicious occasion through a ritual performedby
the Yajamans(whichis knownas 'Burude Kartha' in Jenu nudi). The sarne rituals are followed by other
forest dwvellerstoo thougheachtribe identifieswiththese rituals in different formsas per their dialects.
For ex: 'Brurude Kartha' is 'Thudi'beatingforthe Yeravasandthese forest dwellershave 16 'Chamrnmas'
instead of 'Kotthis'. The habitatof the Yeravas earlier spread over from the forests of Wayanad in
Kerala to Nagaraholein Karnataka was earlier known as 'Yeravanadu'andthese adivasiuse the same
'Thudi' for both marriage anddeathceremonies reflecting the deedrooted belief of the adivasi that
the generation-regeneration cycle of nature was a process of creationaffectingall beings.


    Duringthe ritualsthe adivasiinvokeall beingsof the forests from trees to otherforest produce. The
crux of adivasitraditions andbelief is thatthe spirit of the dead is equalto god and it is these spirits
whichprotect therrl If the predominantbelief of the landedcomnimunitiesis to accord a befitting and
ceremonial send off to the 'atma' of the dead, it is just the opposite among the adivasi. The adivasi
invoke the spirits of the dead during each funeral ceremony to come and dwell in their household,
reflecting the surreal nature of life anddeathbeing a eternal process which is physicalandat the same
time metaphysical. The Yerava adivasi observe an annual celebration named 'Kaanemmaru' in
which the spirits of all those who were responsible for the birth of nature and its beings are called
seeking answers to the woes of those times. These apart the Nagarahole adivasi reflect tribal
characteristicswhich has foundglobalacceptance.These are:

(a) Nagarahole adivasidonot beg andbeggaryis alien to their sensibilities.

(b)Nagarahole adivasi do not hoard food and this is in keeping with the realities of their life in
 their naturalhabitaL

(c) The endogamoussocieties of these adivasi'clearly show that they are mergedin a collective mvas
emerging     out of which is a lifestyle, harmonized with nature. The values of collective self with
conceptual boundarics among these adivasialso has its genesisin they being thtussupremely content
and spiritually evolved with Nagaralhole. This shames and brutalizes the possessive territorial
feudalism       and      induced       confinements       of       main           stream     societies.

(d) Theypossess an animistic belief in the spirits of their      ancestors which they worship as being
manifest in the    various natural endowmentgof Nagarahole forests. Their traditions and ritualistic
practices aresymbolicof the pre-sanskrit era as also is their formless gods. This simply becausethe
sanskritic practices did not touch these dwellers of forests for centuries.         The latest records
establishingthese adivesias forest dwellers is Karnatake Stat.eGazetteer of MysoreDistrict of .1988.
Recording the adivasicommunityrights in Nagarahole ( 'Jantmna' rights), the Gazetteer reads.....They
had their habitats (forest area) dividedwhichwere exclusively meant for them and outsiders were
allowed only on invitation'......They have inbom talent for gatheringhoney.Men go for hunting,
fishing,timber cutting and honey gatheringetc., while the womenfolkwiththeir digging sticks go in
search of edible roots and fruits'.(Chapter m -People-Tribes & Castes).          Lifestyle Mirroring A
Pristine Cultural Evolution:      These adivasistill live deep inside Nagarahole, near water bodies in



                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8

harmony with the beings of the wild. The hamlets (Hadis) are so locatedthat they blend with the
topography of the forest Thehutments:simple shelters madeof bamboo walls and thatchedroofing of
wild grass. Thestaple food :indigenousstrains of rice called 'Doddi' (which withstands vagries of
nature without chemicalfertilizers), wild ragi, tubers, mushrooms, greens,tender bambooshoots and
seeds, honey , goose berries etc and small games. Traditional wild vegetables and fruits such as
varieties of yams, beans,brinjals,bitter gourd, banana, lentils and pumpkinsstud kitchen gardens of
these people.        Contrary to the popular perception, which has been propagated by the forest
department personnel and other related agencies that the adivasiare poachers and killers, these
indigenous people have hunting habits which are regulated by traditions.based on food gathering
needs. When on senrchof food,thcse adivasiutilize the first morsel of meat they come across. This
genierallyare left over of killsmadeby the carnivores.

   Though these forest dwellerscarry bows, they do not carry arrows to kill and instead carryhard
rnudballs andsuch othersammunitionwhich generallystunsananimal andhence isusedmore oftenfor
self defence. Other fotms of gamnehuntin- practiced by these adivasiincludesnares and traps. During
honey collection, theycollecthoncyjust enough for them andleavebehindthe rest for the re-generation
cycle.

    The small games which these dwellers hunt include wild chicken, wild boar, hare, porcupine
pangolines, giantsquirrels, flyingsquirrcls,monitor, civet,wildcat and a varietyof birds.


     The folklore of these forest dwellers do not offer anv evidenceto supportthe claim of the Forest
Department or the Naturalists that these adivasi are big game hunters or destroyers of forest life.
Being worshipers of ,the spirit,believed to manifest in all beings of the forests, the folk traditionsdo
not either glorifythehuntof gameor express fear of the wild.The bondswithnature is so strongarmong
these forest dwellers that the identification of all the beautifulconstituents of the forests as the
souls    of their forefatherscontinuesas a deep rooted ethos. Startlingalivetoo is the animisticbelief
encompassingthe entire Nagaraholewith the deep felt adivasivirtual reality that the spirits of their
forefathers control the elements of forest and protect them from all ailments. And so survives.the
adivasitraditions andbeliefs strongly rooted inthis concept of protective ancestralunbrella of the
forests, in everythingfromthewhisper of trees to the movementsof animals.The adivasi harbours no
fear of the wildanimals. He believesthat the ancestors are controllingtheir movementsandhe enters
the forests insearch of food withthis Amrnourin the mind. It is this empathywith Nagaraholewhich
now makes the adivasi feel insecure and naked wlhenhe is violentlydisplaced from his forest habitaL
He continues to harbourthe fearof the outside worldandso, thevillagerfirst andthe cityman thereafter
are entities he fears.


    The Nagaraholeadivasido not fear death Death merelyprovides m opportunityto enter the world of
their elders and an opportunity for them to becomrrea part of the protective ancestralumbrella.
Marriage is no ceremony,It is an act of copulation for procreation.The younger adivasichoose their
own partners and enter the forests for decision makling.The courtship extends into livingtogether if
liking turns to love,Andif it sours, man and womanhave cqualityunparalleled in other societies to
come out of the familybonds. The touchstone of all adivasi tradition is simple clean livingand life
itself is self sustainedandholistic. closely knitted to Nagarahole.


    The forest is thebook for anadivasichild and the plants and animals the lessons. Preservation
andRe-generation cycles the class rooms. All elders in thecollective his parents.The soumdsof the
forests his music systems. It isa culture Nagarahole adivasi develops and carries withhim from the
cradle to graveandbeyond.It is a unbreakable bond that cannotbe severed.Nagarahole adivasicannot
survivewithouthis forest andwill not allow its continueddesecration.




                                                                                                       9

                                          CHAPT:R FOUR

CHALLENC:ESTO AD1VASILIE


   These children of Nagaraholehave survived constantpressure and threatsfromtheoutside systems,
for centuries.The nomenclature,such as YeravaandKuruba, with which these adivasi are identified is
used aswords signifying ' the lowlyborn' bvthe feudalgentry andthe villagesocieties of Kodagu and
Mysore districts, even to date. The racialovertonesare unmistakable.


   Right upto the 19thcentury,Yerava,Kurubaand other Nagarahole adivasi used to coverthemselves
withbarks andshueds of clotl Though this continues among adivasiold timers even today, some
startedto wear a round of textile called 'Dhoti' to cover themselves duringthe earlv part of the 20th
century, emulatingthe rest inthe outsidesocieties of SouthIndia.But, duringthose early decades, the
feudal gentryhadarropatedto themselvesthe sole right to let this piece of textile belowthe knee. The
adivasi,who dared emulate them, were hounded and beaten up. They were expectedto cover their
modesty onlyupontheir thighs,andthis was applicableeven for the adivasiwomen. Kurubaand
Yerava old timersrecall manysuch instances with emotion wellingup inthem.

   But,it wasnot onlyin suchforms thattheadivasicame to be discriminated by theoutside societies.
Many were forced intobondedlabourbythe feudalgentry and adivasiwomenbecame a target for their
pleasurable pastimes. The innocence and gullibility of the adivasi were thus thoroughly exploited.
Meanwhile, the loot of the forests continuedunabated and the British and their subservient Indian
counterparts likethe MysoreKingsstartedconverting large tracts of the forestsinto teakplantations in
the name of scientific forest management Many adivasi were forced into menial labour, with the
overwhelmingpower of the state stiflingwhateverdesire they hadinthem to protest


ERA OF DISPLACEMENT:

   The engineereddeprivationof theseNagarahole adivasiby the mainstrearnsocietiesof Kodagu,even
if one goes by availablerecords, datesbackto acentury.The few wellmeaning efforts by concerned
members of the bureaucracydtring theBritish era negated itself by a lackof sensitiveunderstandingof
adivasilife andvalues andaidedthe land Sharksof Kodagusociety makeawaywiththebenefits.


   During 1899, the then Kodagu Chief Commnissioner'sadministrationbroughtto force a law known
as   Coorg Land Revenue and Regulation Agt'. This Act benefited some Nagarahole adivasi
commLnmitieswith the Comrnissioneratedistributing lands around the Nagarahole forests to few
hdivasicommunities for cultivation.Sadly however,this was not based on an understandingof the
communityself of the adivasi andtheir ethos of community cultivation. Yet, the administrations' well
meaning effort had provided anopportunity to the adivasito stand onpar with the landsharks . The
Cornrnissionerategaveindividual land holdingrecords to the adivasi, who in turn made efforts at
cultivating these lands in accordancewiththeir values of collective life, obliviousof theimportance of
individuallandrecords intheState's schemeof things.


   This lackof urnderstandingof the tribal ethos by the administration whichresulted in handingover
individuallandrecords to the adivasi, helped the village sharks to grabthese landholdingsfrom the
gullible forest dwellers. Use of social pressures in such land grabbing are also not discounted.
Reflected in these efforts by the Cormmissionerateof Kodagu is the classic lack of understanding
regarding the adivasi among those in the administration or the State apparatus. Such moves at
perceiving the adivasi reality,based on the State's understanding of the value systems of the poor and
the landless of village societies over the century, resulted in adivasibeingput under tremendous
pressure. Violentdisplacementof many adivasi communities from Nagaraholeduringthe decades that



                                                                                                   10

followed, after conservationconcernsbecame a global agendafor the States,is merely       anamplification
of this perceptionallacunas.

STATE SPONSORED CONSERVATION& ADIVASISUBJThGATION

    These projected conservationconcerns resulted in the State's 1972 Wildlife      Act duringthe later
 half of the current centurywhichcompoundedthe Edivasiwoes.The Act,by        beingsilent on the adivasi
issue andthe rights of the forest dwellers,legitimized theeAploitationof adivasitillthen. The Act only
recosnized wildlife preservation needs after        decades of forays bv the trophy              hunters.
Simultaneously, the forest departmentcontinued felling of timber andloot        of precious non-animal
forest produce. The Department, busy with its teak plantations and corimnercialexploitation       of the
forests andthe adivasi,turneda blindeye to the social atrocities on the adivasiand the    rapid poaching
of wild animalsof Nagarahole.

By Eighties, Forest Departmenthad identified adivasi as the biggest threat     to their 'operations' in
Nagarahole.Forced evictionsof the adivasi from their age old hamlets inside      Ngagarahole,which was
declared as a Wildlife reserve in 1975 and upgraded as a National Park in   1983, began, Many adivasi
were forced to timberplantationsinconcditionsworse than those atthe concentrationcarr.ps.Theirhuman
dignity and rights weremolestedbythe hour at these plantationswhichcontinuedtill      1984.


   Between 1915 and 1984 as many as 34 adivasi hamlets were forcibly         dislocated by the Forest
Departrment from the Nagarahole forests. While some were forced to          new locations inside the
NTationalPark area, otherswere forced to leave their habitat.The hamletswhich becametargets       of the
Forest Department durina this period are Athurkolli, Olalekolli,Anunale,    Maaranakolli,Meedirakolli,
Siddapurahadlu,Shantapurahadlu,Sullikolli, Meenukattekolli, Berukolli,Byranakolli,Kaatisattahalla,
Joyikolli, Chotteparehadlu,Padusaarehadlu,        Kolakere,     Kanthooru, Malalukolli,     Somanakolli,
Navulugadde, Bandehadlu,Eermanehadlu, Aanesattagadde, Sujjilu, Kesavinakolli,Morsarnihadlu,
Karlugadde, Kuntuneragadde,Gundre, Chawdigadde,Doddagadde, Hebbala,Begur            and Mattigodu. As
many as 2000 adivasi familieswerecultivatingaround 5000 acres of landaround         these hamlets using
their unique forest basedtechniqueswhich didnot eveninvolveuse      ofcattle.

ADIVASIDECAY&DESTRUCTION:

   Once displaced,the forest dwellers were caught between the deepsea and        devil called the forest
department and the landlordsof Mysore and Kodagu societies, respectively.        The forest department
'rehabilitated' around 300 families in the outskirts of the forests in matchbox            houses near
Chandanalcere,Brahmragiripura    andMajjigehalla. But, these concrete structures,each standingon Three
cents of landandhavingabuilt areaof 14x 16 feet withoutthe elements of nature      havingaccess inside,
were aliento the adivasi.Theyuse these hoiises as cattle sheds and live  in thatchedhutmentsadjacent
to it. evento this day.

    Apart from these structures,the departrnent did not provide any altemnativemearnsof        livelihood
for these adivasi. Revenuelandsprovided to a handful of them, likethose      at Chandanakere,became
easy meat for the coffee planters of Kodagu, with neither the Forest department        nor the Revenue
authorities offering themany protectiorL The adivesi were cheated,harassedor     literally kicked out of
these landholdings. These adivasialong with their less fortunate brethren were      forced to become
plantation labourers.their life at themercy of the coffee planters.


   In manysuch colonies to which they have been evicted,the adivasi havebeen          forced to live life
which are worse thantheworst.Hungerdeaths, deaths owingto newlyacquireddiseases         fromthe outside
societies and situations whereinthey are consciously made to wastethemselvesawayaredimeadozenL
Thehunger deathsat DaddadalliColonyand the wasting away of manyadivasiespeciallyin         theH D Kote
sector inMysore districtof thePark arerecent examples.



                                                                                                          :,

  The story of the adivasistill livinginside the forests was no different. They became target of the
forest department's highhandedness and exploitatior. Old timers recall how departmentpersonnelhad
pushedmanyadivasi into the forest fires, andprojected themto bte accidents whenthey were involved
in either puttingoff foreft fires or creatingfire lines,since 1950s.

  Thus. the forest rights of the forest dwellers were severelv curbed. They wereprevented from
leading their traditional lifestyle basedon forest produce.Those forest dwellers who joinedthe forest
departmentas watchers andguardsbecametargetsof ridiculeandracial discrimination.

Other adivasi,who daredvoice their protest were targeted for such special treatment, like beatings
andfalse complaintsof poachingandsmuggling.


DESTRUCTION&EXPA.ASIONOF NAGARAHOLEFOPESTS:

   Meanwhile, forest departmentpersonnel continuedtheir loot of the forests andthe influentialcoffee
planters of Kodagu, their       encroachment of the Nagarahole forests. Substarntialportions of the
forests wereturnedinto coffee plantations.But, as presstre mountedfrom environmentalistsand other
nature lovers, the department convenientlyidentified adivasias root cause for destruction wghichthe
department personnel themselves had actively perpetratedalong with Kodagu's coffee planters and
Mysore's tobacco growers.


    Consequently, adivasi, who still continued their indigenous agricultural practices inside the
forests, hadtheir crops destroyed.Theywerehoundedout of the forest. This,incidentally,was a part of
the forest department's strateV at showing an increase in the National Park area and marginally
compensating for all the encroachments by the Planters and Tobacco growers. Instancessuch as
the destruction of the standing crops of Maralukolli adivasi by the forest personnel using tamed
elephantsin 1964 aredime a dozen. Brahmagiripuraadivasirecall how the Maralukolliadivasipetrified
by the brutal act,disintegrated to different areas,both inandout of the forests.


  During thernid SOs,forest departmnentintensified their assault on the adivasirih-ts anddignity.The
department forcibly encroached on agricultural lands belonging to the adivasi since centuries at
Wanachii,BaIekovu,Gonigadde,Maden-iooru,Kurrmbarakatte,Ganagooru and Junglehadi, andconverted
nearly 500 acres into bamboo, teak and eucalyptusplantations. Th.is process of alienatingthe adivasi
fromtheir traditionalhabitat continues withthe department as recently as three years ago expandingthe
NationalPark area by nearly 5000 acres, encroaching on adivasi lands. Continuousefforts..have
also beenmade at severing the adivasi' linkswiththe forests by diggingup roads leadingto theforests
from certain adivasihamlets and preventingthe adivasifrom entering the forests for their traditional
festivalsandrituals.

                                             CHAPTER FIVE

FAILURE OF THE WELFARE STATE


   The Story of theNagaraholeadivasiis botha tale of the majority in a pluralistic society imposingits
will on a seggmentwhich is neither vocal nor powerful and the State imposing its conservation
concerns with scant regard either for their welfare or human rights. Neither the welfare state of the
erstwhileMaharaja'of Mysore nor the democraticmodelof free India,has been intune withthe ground
realities these indigenouspeople.

   Since independence,the models conceivedandthought to be good for the forest dwellers is largely
motivatedby the interests of the majority society andnot the interests of the adivasior their cultural



                                                                                                   *12

realities.The experience of the last 50 yearmestablish that the plan priorities of mainstreamsociety
and their welfare models mean destruction of both the adivasi and their culture and their habitat, the
1Jagsraholeforests.

   Free India promised muchfor the adivasi with many constitutional guarantees.The declaration of
adivasi as scheduled tribes under Article 342 of the Constitutionrecognized and p-antedthem a
special place in the Indiancanvas. This meant a constitutional recogition of the need for providing
special protection andrights for the adivasi.including protection of their human rights and granting
special privileges via-a-vis opportunities and avenuesthrough Reservationbenefits.Article 46 of the
Constitutionstates that 'the state shallpromote, with special care, educationalandeconomic interests
of the weakersections of the people, inparticular the scheduled tribes, arndshall protect them from
social injustice and all forms of cxploitation.

     But, these constitutional guaranteeshaveremained mere illusions for the Nagaraholeadivaui.The
categorization of adivasiwithScheduledCastes in a 'SC & STrbracket for all policy formulations and
administrativeneeds, results innearly all specialprograrnes of theStatebeingrnodelled on theneeds
of themore dominantScheduledCastes of villagesocieties, exceptsome forest relatedactivities.

    Simultaneously, the nurnber of communities in the ScheduledTribes list has increased since
independence, with more and more communities being included in the list based on the vote bank
politics of parties in power. Thereby, thebenefits of reservation and suchother special programrnmes
does not rcach these forest dwellers. The provisions of Article 46 thrownto winds, State turned a
blindeye to the exploitation of the Nagaraholeadivasiby the planters andtobacco growers evenwhile
legislating manyforest laws,perpetratingstate sponsored exploitation.

 STATEIMPOSED WELFARE MEASURES:

  Naturally, underthe circumstancesthe priority of the State revolvedaroundforceful evictionof the
adivasi from their habitat and 'civilize' them through various welfare schemes such as providing
modem education, -ivingthem alienimplements such as those whichare used by the village societies
and providing them with various traps of materialistic lifestyle without any thought towards
preserving their pristine culturalidentity or their LDL lifestyle.


  Whenthe State found thattheir was a resistanceto these efforts   from the adivasi, the Integrated
TribalDevelopmentProgranue was launchedcountrywidein l976. But,eventhe rMDPwas not evolved
basedon the adivasineeds andreality andinstead became a re packaged implementationof the earlier
programmesthrough differentagencies.Naturally,even the lIDP failedto deliveranythingkeeping with
the current realities and did not evenprovidethe adivasi with a model of even a protected commne
withinthe forests withresponsibilities of conservationbeing devolvedto them

Thus, the variouswelfare schemesmeantfor the adivasi is in effect animpositionof the State.With no
efforts beingmade either atmicro plarningor to study andunderstand the adivasineeds, the Nagarahole
adivasiis forced to accept education, health, housing and other inputs planned mndperceived to be
their needs by the Delhi or Bangaloreplannersthoughtotally alien

EDUCATION

     Consequently, the curiculum of educationto the adivasi is the same as that of the children of
mainstream societies. That this is aliento the adivasi child as it does not incorporate either the
adivasi value systems or language is brushed aside by the State. Till the 60s even these teaching
institutions were located based onthe needs of village societies . Thismeantthat the adivasichildhad
a namrowaccess to the educationfacilitiesmade available.




                                                                                                   13

        these scLcW s,    a         .c   sufferedracialdiscriminationandhumiliatiorns'
                                         vs
                                         .d                                              f'ir.
O^r.lae      soceties. 'zny left .e-   schools with education appearing irrelevant and emotionally
trautmatic.In the process, he is cheated the opportunityto evolvea consciousnessto combat outside
 pressures andguardhisvalues,owing to lack of education.


   The adivasiresistanceto education throuch inteerationwith the mainstrearnsocieties, owingto the
divergent socio economic status of the village communities and related discrimination,dawned on
the State during the 70s. TJe result is 'Ash-raramShale'.an adivasi residential schoolmodel, makingan
effort, at takingprimery educatiionto the doorsteps of these forest dwellersby dcvelopinga model
combining botlh education, again as perceived by the mainstream aocietywithoutincorporatingthe
tribal ethos, andchildhealth,throuighnutritious food progranmnes.

    Sevensuch tribal residential schools inside Nagarahole, seek to cater to the forest dwellers by
imparting educationusing curriculumno differentfromthe other governmentrun schools inthe rest of
Karnataka.Meant exclusivelyfor the adivasichildren, these schools hold the promise of treating he
children as boardersprovided with nutritious food, clean cloths and such othernecessities to maintain
personal hygiene . These schools are mannedby a warden, cook and teachers who are provided
residential quarters near the schools.


   This model iswidelyacceptedby the social scientists as a laudablecndeavour.But,the successof the
model amongthe Nagaraholeadivasi is only marginal. Only 50 percent of the children attendthese
schools andthe dropout rates are extremely high. The model is a failure as a residentialschool as
neitherthe childrennor the teachers and otherstaff reside atthe school.Thenutritious food is merely
remained a dreamwithscandals of diversion of comrnoditiesand black marketing of the samehaving
become a regular affair. Imparting education at these schools is more of a play acting with these
childrenwhoattendthese schools turningout to beonly'signature' literates at the end of their primary
educatiorL



   'Thereby,at least two generation of the Nagaraholeadivasi is not been emDoweredto enjov the
benefits of special guarantees incorporated in the Nation's Constitution likeReservationet al, both in
educationandemployment.The adventof Non GovernmentalOrganizations during the 80s, intervening
for the adivasiandtheir habitat, in a severe indictment of the State & its machinery,helpedat least a
handfulenjoythebenefits.

BXALTH:

The Nagarahole adivasihas minimurnaccess to State'shealth systems. A lone PrimatyHealthCenter,
established in late 70s continue to caterto the 4.000 strong adivasipopulationinsidetheNagarahole.
A mobile tribal health unit was provided just as recently as Seven years ago. These forest dwellers
haveno access to the emergency health systems of neighbouringvillages andtowns,TheStatehas not
made anyeffort atprovidinghealth systems inkeeping withthe adivasi lifeandtheirhabitat Effortshave
also not been made to integrate the highly evolved herbal medicine systems of these adivasiwith the
modernmedicinesystems.


    The State has failed to recognize the dependenceof the Nagarahole adivasi on the State'shealth
systems, which is predorninantly based on modem medicine systems. The adivasiherbal medicine
system is rich for forest related and other alimnents.Yet, sustained pressures on these forest dwellers
apart from violent dislocations from their habitat from time to time has put the clock back on its
evolution.The lack of state patronage also adversely affected these systems,increasingthe adivasi'
dependenceon the State's health system.




                                                                                                    14

    Consequently,the mortality rate among the adivasi was on a high andtill the late 80s when NGOs
intervenedto provideemergency services and necessary reach to tlhese forest dwellers.The State's
inmmunisationprogrammes reached the adivasi only during the 80s, with the NGO activities
animatingths 9tateagencies.

   The failure of the Stateto provide adequate health support systems inkeepingwiththe needs of the
adivasi hasresulted inmanyhunger deaths in Nagarahole.Thehigh rate of malnutritionamong these
forest dwellers owing to the State policies preventingthem from subsisting adequiatelyon the forest
produce is reflected inthe record nrmber of epilepsypatients. Bone diseases andharnperedfaculties
also standout. A downswingin the population of these indigenouscomrunnities wasclear till the SOs
before theNIGOand other supportgtoups intervenedto halt a process wiich wasakinto efforts aimedat
deliberateexterminationof arace.

   The lone PIHCinside Naga-ahole is an example of a truant health center with irregulardoctors and
inadequatemedical supplies. The adivasiwhovisits the Centeronly when his conditionis in a advanced
state do not find the cure, as the Center is ill equippedto meet the situatiorLThis is a reflection of
failureof the State in creating systems in keepingwith thevalue syste'rnsof the adivasi,which is based
on animmensefaithin the spirits of Nagarahole.Further, if a health unit is at a distanceof more than 5
kms, heis discouragedto go.


  The MobileHealthUnitis not inworkingcondition half the year. Andwhenit is condition,it seldom
reaches eitherthe colonies whichhaveno othertransport access or meet the requirement of the adivasi
who is in dire need of medical attention. The TJnitis more regularly involved in implementing
Family Planning programmes on an indigenous population which is barely managing to survive
diversepressureson itsveryexistence.

HOJUSIWG

   The State's efforts at plrovidinighousitngis a patent example of urbanplanningfor a adivasisociety.
The Statebrought in alien structures intoNagaraholeduringthe late Sixties to replacethe conurunity
conclaveof hutmnentsof the adivasi.The structuresbroughtinto Nagaraholewerematchboxconstructions
withouttheelements of beingallowed even apeck These darkholes werealsoofpoor quality and was
modelled without eventhe rudimentaryunderstandin-gof adivasiethos of commnunitylife. Such houses
built inastraight linereached Fivepercentof the adivasifanilies.


    Instead of providing altemative houses whichi was modelled and constructedinkeepingwith the
.tdivasineedcl,these houses tuWnedthe'beneficiary' hadis intoslums. Thestructureswererejected by the
adivasiwithmost usingthese structures as stures for their meagre belongings.Theadivasifanily put up
traditionalthatchedhutments attachedto thewalls of these structures for their use.The structures also
affectedthe corrumunityhygieneof atraditional adivasi hadi and stood out glaringlyto the topographyof
Nagarahole.

                                                    CHAP1ER S1X

THE ADIVASIASPIRATIONS

IhcNagaraholeadivasithus sandwichedbetweenthe designsof the Statebackedbythe strong lobbyof
environmentalistsandthe ever increasingpressures of the forests from the outsidesocieties aspire for
due recognition of their cultural identity and their role in conservation efforts and want any
developmentmodel to revolve around their habitat and its sustainability. In keeping with these
aspirations, the adivasi-model revolves aroundthree different strata of the Nagaraholenamely (a)
forestswhich are dwellinghabitats of the adivasi(b) forests whichare conservedandprotected by the
adivasiand(c) thesacred forests of the adivasi.




                                                                                                    tS

   The                   c-;-. .;s-.ae ''
         ff-':-st                            Tno-
                                               nr-   o'' forests outside the core areaaroundtheforests for
r.ect..--the      hotbitr.trev'rc!r",?        .rO    adivasi farnilieswith provisions for adivasi to cary
ou7 ei: E.e          vesteidsussn:`aeas- cu.C ai'practices.Theseforests wouldactassocial fencesagainst
       *.:i'     -of the Eorestwvealthbythe agents of the consumptivesocieties. The locationof the adivasi
;:adisinthis areshasbeenidentifiedbasedon theadivasitraditionsand'athalapurLais'paseedonoverthe
ccr,turies This compriscsof Six jarnmmasin Virajpet(Kodagu)sectornarnelyNanachi(980 acres,
196 jenu Kurubafamilies),Gonigadde           (1,184 acres,237 JenuKurubafanilies),Borninadu(860acres,
163Jenu kuruba/yerava        families),Kaantur(495 acres,99jenrukurlibafamilies),Madenoor(645 acres,
 129jenukurubafarnilies)andAayirhossali(1630 acres, 326 panjariyerava/jenukurubafamilies);
three'jammas' inKakanakoteregion(3,250 acres,650jernukuruba/bettakuruba/yernvafamilies).The
 secondcatego-ry      comTiprisesforestswitharadius of 12.5 acresaroundeachadivasihaadiwhichwouldbe
 underdirect conservationefforts of the adivasiwith rights over minor forest produce andmedicinal
plants.This is forest landtothe extendof 22,500 acres.


    The third category comprisesthe rests of the forest cover which wouldbe barred fromaccess to
anybodyand wouldbe conserved together bythe adivasi and the State for preservingthebio diversity.


CONSERVATIONSTRATEGY:



(a )The Nagarahole forests must be under the direct supervision of the adivasi,in tune with their
indigenous identity and with due recognition and              powers to their conservation idioms with the
guarantee tee that there wouldbe no forced re location of any of these adivasi farnilies fromtheir
habitat.



(b) .Al conservationstrategiesmustbe in consultation with the adivasiandwiththeir priorapproval,in
keeping withthetime tested indigenous knowledge andexpertiscintheir possession.

(c) There shouldbe no comrnrercialexploitation of Nagarahole-either for timber or for wildlife,
including consumr.tivetourism.Tourism, if amust, should be in the adivasiidiomwithvisitors staving
in adivasihaadisandlivingtheir lifestyle inharnony with the forests. TheNagaraholemustcease to be
hauntsfor pleasurablepast times.


I'd)The Nagaraholemust be managed by a Steering Commit tee comprising Jamma Sabhayajmans,
representatives of theState,environmnentgroups,adivasi organizationsand experts indifferentspheres
andconcerned individLals.

(e) Variousworicssuch asbuildingof roads andconcrete            structures inside the Nagaraholernust stop
with       inmnediateeffect Theadivasireject anydevelopment initiative whichdestroysthecanvasof the
wild. The adivasifamilieswhich have been forcefully re-located to the fringe forest areasmust be
vested       with the right to enter the forests for perforning their traditional duties and observingtheir
festivals,apart from enjoyingtheir minor forest produce. These farnilies include600 fanilies in 12
haadis inVirajpetsector and 800 families in 34 haadisinHunsur sector.


(f) Vigorous efforts mustbe made to curtail 'fence             eating the crop' with necessary vigil on the
agencies of the State andadivasiandthe state agencies should work handin handin keepingout the
smugglers andthe poachers.Forest contractors shouldbe banned.

(g)All disbursement of payments for conservation efforts includingfightingforest fireset al must



                                                                                                        16

be throughthemanagementcomrnittee andshould not be vectedsolelywithforest departmentpersonmel.

(1i) The state should initiate special efforts at imparting specific training to the adivasiin order to
blendtraditional wisdom with acceptable modem consemation strategieswiththe ultimateaim of the
adivasi hirnselfassurningpositions such as Conservators and above.As an interimstrategy, the state
should recognize adivasiyajarnansin the necessary        manner by accordingthem honorarytitles with
equal powersasthe aaencies of theState.

(I) Movement of all vehicles except to meet conservation requirernents and emergencies must be
banned inside the forests. These vehiclesrrist besolar powered to       reduce noise andenvironrmental
pollution. All approach roads passingtl-ough theforests must be diveitedoutsidethe forestson a war
footing.

(j) All concrete structures within 10 km radius of the forests should be demolished and
strict regulations  must beenforced for any structurewhicheornesup in future.

(k) All research activities must have the unanimous approvalof the managingcommittee and the
managing comrnittee shouldbe the final authority for clearing anyresearch project The commnittee
shouldalsohave the right to withdrawits pexrnission for any research project if andwhenit is found
to be anti conservation.

(1)Adivasi rapid action forces must be deployed in strategic locations with necessary mobility and
communicationnetworks.The State shouldstand with the adivasiinfightingthe pressureson the forests
fromthevillagesocieties.

(m) The adivasireject all externally funded conservationefforts as longastheseefforts arefunded in
the form of loans.The adivasi stand is that all      such conservation efforts must first secure the
approvalof theadivasiandthe high power management comunitteeandanyfundsshouldbe in the forrm
of grantswhichare not to be re paid or have any strings attachedin the formof patentingand such
others.


    NANAGEMET     STBATEQ.Y:


    Cuarently, IJagarahole is being managed oy the State agencies without any scope for active
participation of the adivasi. Thc dangers of such efforts have been enlisted earlier with the teak.
plantationland the eucalyptus misadventurestandingout as glaringexamples.It is also clearthat without
a cormnunityeffort andparticipationof all. the forests given the intense pressureson it will not last
beyotndthe next two decades of the 21St cdntury.The adivasi gravelydisturbedby such a serious
situation.proposethe followingmanagementmodule.

The British modelof wildlife managementwnich still invogue even 50 years of independencehasthe
NTagaraholesegmnentedinto Seven ranges under two conservation circles, one territorial and another
wildlife.Theseranges and their range officers have over the decades merely made it a pastime to
attackthe adivasiforall the denudation anddestructionof the forests. Thisisnot establishedby facts.

Onthecontrarvthe facts establishthatthere is largescale encroachnent of the forestsby the powerfiul
planters of Kodagu,thatmost of these forest officers are rich beyondtheir norrnalmeans,thata strong
tirnberlobbystill pry on these forests with.the connivance of the agents of the state andthat wildlife
meat is availablefor the planters at their fancies. Onthe adivasipart, the only fact that exists isthat a
handfulof adivasihavebeen coerced into wieldingthe guns providedby the plantersunderthreat given
the feudalsensibilities of these planters and powerful farmers whocontinueto addressthe adivtsi in
derogatory terns as 'hey, kuruba' (meaning infidels in their parlance and not recognition          of an
ethnicidentity).




                                                                                                      17

  The indigencusrmode!formans-eret        of ±eheforests, under such circumstances, to be implementedby
 *iwa.,asi   is aTIL-aee systemcornmprimiCa) Haadi 9arha (
                       tier                                         NagaraholeJarnma Snbhaand (d) Ste
                                                                     T)
  -- a.lC.D.-r--nnitee.
                    s1-heseranlagernent syatenis include (a) Forest ConservationCommittee and (b)
ArbitrationCommitteeat eachHaadiandJamrnalevel.

(a) LneHaadi Sabhacomprisesof all adivasi elders and              women of each adivasihaadi,whohave
attained IS vears of age.All programnneswill be planned and implemenlted in each haadibv the
haadi sabha which       will also have the responsibility of supervising          these programrnmes. All
eonservationefforts asndutilization anddistributionof rninorforest produce in the forestswhicharein
the arnbitof each haadiwill     be as per the guidelines establishedby the hoadi         sabha.The forest
conservation comrnittee at the haadi will be a committee establishedby the haadi sabha and it will
havethe responsibilityof preventingall disruptive activities on the forests apart from implementing
and supervising conservation exercises.      The Arbitration Committee would also be brought into
existence by thehaadisabhaandthis conmmitteewould be the finalauthorityinsettlinganydisputesand
the punitivemeasures declared by this commnitteeon erring members of the haadiwill be final.The
traditional yejamanof the haadiwill be the chairman of the haadisabha andthe arbitration comrnittee.
 The chairman of the conservationCommittee will be appointedby the haadi sabha,whichwill meet
once a week The conservationconmmitteeshall meet once in            fifteen days and arbitrationcommittee
wxheneverthere is adispute.

(b) The forests will haveNineJarrma Sabilas whlichwill meet once every month. These Sabhaswill
have three      representatives from each haadi sabha comprising the Yejaman, the chairmanof the
conservation committee      an-da ladv representative. Tne Yejaman of the Jamma Sabha will be an
unanimous choice by the representatives of the Sabhaand the Qteering Committee will arbitrate on
the nominees forJamrna Sabha Yejaaman from the list submittedby the JarnmaSabha in the              event
of there beingno urnnimityamong the JarmrmaSabha members. The JammnaSabhawill be the final
appellate authorityfor resolving any dispute which is carried over from the haadi sabhaanddecisions
qhall be arrivedat with fill participation of the Jarnma Sabhamembers withthe Yejamananouncing
the decision only with the mandate of the majority. The Jamrna Sabha shall also co ordinate
implementationof various proarmmes andshall laythe directions as per the requirementsdecidedby
the haadisabhaand if necessary, guidelines of theSteering Cormmittee.The JamnmaSabhashallalsobe
responsible for co-ordinating with forest departmentpersonnel as and when necessarv andlayingthe
broad outlines of requirements and functioning of the variousbodies in the Jamma based on the
decisions taken by thehaadi sabhas.

(c) The overallmanagementof the forests will be vested with a Steering Committee,comprisingthe
Yeiamnansof      the Nine Jammas; the forest department officers from DC1Fto CF and beyond;
Environmentalexpert as identified by the adivasi and forest department; representatives of the NGOs
involvedinadivasistruzgle in the reeion as identifiedbythe adivasi; representatives of NGOsinvolved
in environmental issues as       identified by the adivasi, the forest department and           the local
admninistration:arepresentativefrom the concemed district administrations; Adivasi experts from the
ncademic circuit as identified by Adivasi and NGOs wor3kingamong Adivasi;Local MIAs whose
constituency encompasses the forest; Local        s;   and      three other representatives from other
professions whoareknowledgeableaboutthe forest andthe adivasi.

  The Committee has not exceed more than 35 members and shall meet once three months. The
Committee will be jointly chaired by an adivasi representative and a representative of the forest
department. The meetings shall becconvened compulsorily once in three months by the Governnent
representative  and as and when Ten members of the Committee jointly represent for a meeting The
adivasi Co-Chairperson will-e nominated by the JammnaYajamans. Thc Steering Committee ChairpTerson
will be nominatedfrom among all the Steering Committee members. The Secretary of the Committee
who shallconvenethemeetingsshallbe arepresentativeof the forest departrnent.




                                                                                                      is

 TheCommitteehas finalizedthe guidelines for managementof the forests andthe protectionof       adivasi
culturebased on the opinions expressedby the membersof the Comrmnittee.     TheCommittee shall also
be responsible for mobilizin, andchannielisingffijndstowardsconservationatndadivasiwelfare.

  The Commnitteeshall also have the powers to decide on stringent punitive measures against all
those involved in anti conservation activities and exploiting and intfringingon the hurnan  riglhts and
forest rights of the adivasi. The Colmmittee shall also have the powers to nominate a Jamma Sabha
Chairpersonfromamongthe list of nominees submittedby the JammnaSabhain the eventof           the Sabha
failingto makean unanimous choice.TheCommittee shall liaison with the Governmentand voice the
micro planninginputs and ensurethat the plans of thegovernmnentarein keeping with theconservation
needs andadivasiaspirations. The Comnrittee ahall ensure that there is no forcible eviction of  adivasi
from the forestsandarbitrateon the actions of the forest personnel as and whencases are foisted on
the adivasiwithout any basis.The Comnrmittee  shallalso be the final authority in appointmentof lower
levelfield personnel for conservationneeds andadivasiwelfare.

ADIVASI DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY


(a) The adivasieconomyshall bebased on sustainable cultivation practices whichhas been followed
over the centuriesbythese forest dwellers in the form of medicinal plants andforestproduce        such
as gooseben-ies,honey,tubers,roots andshoots. The adivasi shall enjoytherights overinter cropping
without affecting the forest-canvas aroundhis haadi     and without using any modem machinery or
chemical fertilizers.Horticulturalproduce shall also form a     back bone of the adivasieconomy and
foodhabits. Te adivasishallhavetherights over small prey which shallbe listedout by       the Steering
Committee in consultation with theJamma Sabhas based on seasotnalobservations.

(b) The adivasi haadisshallbe established by the adivasiin keeping withtheir traditionsandmerging
with the topographyof the forests without any destruction of the forest cover.The adivasishall be
givenassistanceforputtingup their traditional dwellingstluctures using deadwoodanddry leaves. If
thie 3tateis keenon providingthem with community electricity, the adivasiopt for solar electrification
for lightingpurposesandreject hightension wires passingoverthe forest endangeringthe wildlife.The
aJivasi shall alsobe given assistance for cleaning up traditional water holes in the forests which
havelong goneuin-empt,affecting both the wildlife andthe adivasi.


(c) The adivasi children shall be educated in their mother tongue withKannadabeingan optional
language atthe primarylevel.The curriculumshall be firamedwiththehelp of adivasiyejamsns,       adivasi
experts and educationists, based on the inherent conservation idiom of the adivasi.After           due
education, the adivasi shall be given preference in     agencies involvedin forest conservation and
preservationof indigenouscultures.EachJarnmashallhave a high school andcollegiate      educationshall
be givenoutsidethe forests with special facilities and institutions beingestablishedby the    Steering
Committeein theadjoiningvillagesand tovns. An Ashram Shalebased ondecisionstakenby the            haadi
sabhashall be establishedin a adivasihutrnent for every five haadis in order to ensure        nutrition
inputsto childrerLThe adivasirejects construction of roads leadingto the haadisandwant       only path
waysto approachdifferenthaadis.Educated adivasi shallbe givenpreferencewhileappointingteaching
for the primaryandhighschool education by the SteeringConmmittee.

(cf The adivasihealth system is invariably based on        both the traditional systems and modem
medical practicesowingto irreversibleprocess of history. While the adivasineed      encouragemenitfor
sustaining its indigenousmedicinalpractices whicharc based on herbs andotherforest       produce, the
adivasi also    needaccess to modem medical practices for treating ailments which havereached       the
adivasi from the village societies. Hence, apartfrom bringing the existinghealthapparatusunder      the
Steering Committeefor better supervision,the adivasishall have a PHC for eachJamma.Each Jamma
3abhaChairman shall alsobe givenwireless comrunication systems managed bythe         forest department
to call for mobile rnedical help inthe case of emergencies.




                                                                                                     19>

                ciiv-lsistn.+d]- -.t. ;N4 horle         prcs-nt.   saga of a continr.-ucs     U.
           -ae-.                                  .r.rS                                          .

x;;digenousforestwti'bes ii3keJenu Kuruba, Betta K.u-ubaand Yerava forprotectiol of Uieiri^aita-
and their cultural identityamidstgravethreats to both from the StFateand the orwanizcdcommunities.
Though thesetribesstandout as uncorruptedexamples for livinginharmonywithnature andsustaining
their habitat, they haveover the cdecadesfaced severe threats of forcible re location and organized
effotts of themainstreamsocieties inpaintingthem as the solethtreatsto a pristinenaturecover.

  Apart from the cultural shocks which these adivasisuffered duringthe pre independenceera with
rampant felling of the forests and encroachments literally reducing a large majorit.y of them into
subservience before the villagesocieties, thepost independenceerabroughtto them the ageof forced
re locations, The 8Ossawmanysuch adivasi groups being forced out of the forests and most of these
adivasigroupsespeciallythe Yeravashavebeet-nreducedto labourersat the mercy of rich coffee planters
of KodaguL


  The adventof NGO groupssuch as CORD,DEED and Fedina Vikas aroundthis timneto takeup the
cause of these dying adivasi groups has now resulted in the adivasi standing strong andresisting
pressures to which they gavein duringthe previous decades.The spread of awareness regardingtheir
rights inthis adivasibelt of Virajpetin Kodagu district andPeriyapatna,HunsurandH D Kote inMysore
district have borne fruit duringthe late 90s with the resistance to the Taj Resorts at Murkalin gross
violation of the existing laws standing out as a prime example.Despite severe pressures from the
Governmentand its agencies,withthe moneybags of the TajG-roupdoing the talkiniz,the adivasistood
firrn andfinallytook theTajto theportals of KamatakaHigh Court.


The adivasifelt their realpowerasa organizedgroup whenthey declared a NagaraholeBtndh on Dec.
29, 1996 and succeeded like never before. The NagaraholeBundh was the historic first in post
independent bIdia when the adivasi asserted their supremacy over their traditional domain in no
uncertain manner.This success had a sugar coating, a month later when the KarnatakaHigh Court in
Januarv 1997 gave a verdictin favourof the adivasi.exposingthe State and its agencies. The matter is
now,ironically,pendingbetforethe SupremeCourt withthe -tate holdingthe brief on behalf of theTaj.

And sincethen,there has beenno looking back for the Nagaraholc adivasi. The legislation of Bhurai
Coirrinitteerecommendiationsby the Parliament givingmandate for tribal self rule saw the Nagarahole
adivasi celebrating the Haadi Republic Day on January 26, '97. It was a day when even the State's
agencies stood mute spectatorsin awe.The Nagaraholeadivasifollowedthis with a forcefulrejectionof
the IndiaEco Development Project of theWorld Bank for Nagaraholebooing the WB delegationaway
in Feb.' 97. This has resulted in the WB and the Union Governnent giving the entire project a new
dimension taking the adivasisensibilities into accounL


  Now, the adivasihavetakenit upthemselves to declare self rule in their haadis withthe Statedragging
its feet in imnplementingtheTribalPanchayat Raj Extension Act of 196 based on Bhuria Cormittee
recommendations. The State'sagencies can enter suchhaadis onlywiththe permission of theYejaman.


    The People3' Plan is a document borne out of these struggles and precedes even the Bhurir
legislation. Yes. the Nagarahole adivasi have come a long way from the dyingkurubas exploited by
the State and village societies and emerged into a strong fighting force clear about their needs and
dapabzilities.




                                                t** ' ..END 5Sm'***



                                                                                                  20

                                                              CONVENOR
                                                              DISTRICT COMMITTEE
                                                              BUDAKATTU KRISHIKARA SANGHA
                                                             COORG DISTRICT.

011 4619393

MS. JESSICA MO1T
MR. SAM TANKRAJ
WORLD BANK.

Dear Mr.Jessica Mott andMr. SamTankaraj.

We came to know that you are World Bank's representatives and            are responsiblefor sanctioning
 rmonieyto Nag.raliole Eco-DoveloprTIM1rProject. We are surprisedt1hat          yournre a)outl lo sariction
mioticy to tli s p)rojecl whiichiwill ncgjalc NagalraholcAdivasis tlieir hlitto life.

We too need tile forest. Our life dependson it. BuJtsucIha       life.suppolfive foresthasbeen seen by
the GoverlrTnent and the Forest Department only as a source of revenue thlroughilogging                 and
auctioning wood and tiimiber.Tle tircesarid great trnny paits of tlheforestwe          dependedfor fruits,
tubers,honey, etc., are Cut and cleared by thiemT.

We know that thedirective principles of your Bank says thal to sanction imonieyto         anlyprojectlirst
of all it shiouldbegurariteed that the irnplementation of the project doesn'l violate the     humanriglhts
of the indigeniouspeople.

Tliat in thlepreparationof the project these people should be involved and consulled and          Iliat their
opiniionsbe respected.

And the developmnentproject whiicli the forest department lhasprepared and wlhiclhis           goinlgto be
fundcedby you has never bectn miadeavailable for our observation. The               forestdepartmientlias
never cared to translateit to our language.

So Ithe presenit Eco-Developtnent Projoct is prepared witihout          caring for our tradilional rigltls.
without discussing witihus. It aimTsonly atlour displacernenlt. It neglect our role    inilte developimernt.
our the projects. At presentthe departmienitofficials are constanily     rnisbeliaving witlhus ill-treatirig
us and oppresing us to pushlus out of the forest.

We too believe that forests slhould be saved, all its flora and fauna     be protectedand tribal lile be
prospered. B3utIle iethliod and means of acleivinig it slhotuldbc       incolhererncc will otir fecliig aFud
emotions. It shiouldneverviolat our rights. So in this      directionly an Eco-DevelopmentProject be
prepared.




                                                    1

H-opingfor your favourable iespollse and initricdiate nclionl.

Yourssincerely,


1. Mr. Sonanttia, Convener,                                                 :    ,
   Girijana Jilla Smnithy,
   Mysore District.




2. Mr. J.P. Raju,
  Co-Conve nor,
  Karnataka Rajya Moolanivasi Budalcattu Janara Vedike,
  Karnataka.


3. Mr. Nanjundiah,
  Secretary General,
  FEDINA-VIKASA,                                                                      12
                                                                         _     _

  H.D. Kote, Karnataka.


4. Mr. S. Sreekant,'
  -,ecretary,                                                          l        ,
  DEED,1-1.D.   Koto Road,                                      *     .  --
  HtLJlsur,Karnatan(a.                                          >   .<<    rL    (2


5. Mr. Venkatesh Padakanaya,
  Convener,                                                              X
 Tribal Joint Action Committee,
  Karnataka.F                                                    b < -_

6. Mr. Vittal Nanachii,
  Membor, District Tribal Committee,
  N. Begur P.O.,Brarnhagiri,                      Cx9 ;
  H.D. Kote, Kprnataka.                                        w


7. Mr.V.S.Roy David,                                                     3
  Director,
  CORD,Kuslialnagar     Po,
  N.Kodagu 571234.
  KARNATAKA.



copy to:

1. The Prime Minister, Government of India.
2. Minister of Forests, Government of India.
3. The Chief Minister, Karnataka State.
4. The Forest Minister, Kamrataka State.
5. The President, World Bank.
6. The Press.

  pages     2 includinq         this one

  Ms Jessica         Mott
   z   Sam TankeLraj
  World     Bank

  Greetings         from   CORD,     the Coorg         Organization         for Rural
  Development

   1     I -trust       you already         have     on record       our    objection       to  the
         ecodevelopment             plan,      and the     analysis        of  the   violations        of
         the      bank   operational           directives-

  2      We bring        to.your       notTg"      once   again      that     we 1iavenot       been
         consulted,         nor     have    the    points     raised       been   addressed       in   the
         preparation          of the      plan.

         For      instance,       The forest         department,         even    at your     -meeting-on
         1 June        1996,    stickcs     to-its      position       that    the   law does      not
        .-perait.humanainhabiitaion within                       lational        Parks,     while your
         ' diectives

     ..     ;       a.     (15 a end        I'Sc]      are  clear      that    legal    protection
                           for    ensurlqg       th} customary           rigrts     of the     people
                          *should      be in-place-before              the    plan   is   approved.

                    b..    thre'*shouid-ka             informed      participation

                    c;.    Wher0-:adVers          .:imPcts-     are    unavoidable        and adequate
                           :itigati'6n.plis             -bWo ntot bsen         developed,        the   Bank
                           -::ill     zot apptaise       projects        until    suitable       plans
                           dare deveblpied.by           the   borrower        and reviewed        by the
                           3anJc .

         'We also       fail     to understand          how the      plan     could    even    reach
          this      stage   when your.-owh           docttmentzcatalogue             in   painful
          detail       how it     conflicts        with    your    policy       (see   Ecodevelopment
          -InNaarhhle,            1ndia      --  a critique        by Anita       Cheria;      presented
        -at. your       consultati       nn Ji     Washington        on 1 Ayrll        ±L9o,J,    and',
         :after the Government of India,                      thru     its    forest    department
         has     made    it   aburdantly         clear     that    evictions        will    tako   place
         sTnhce according            to   tho    -law human habitati6n              is  not    permitted
        4:inNaftional         Parkcs     at-the      me-eting     in   New Delhi      on 1 June


         tle. find'     io e.vidence       .that     any  of these        criteria      have    been
        *-. ffulfilled.

  .3     DeE.pito-this,           t-c pro.ject         geems    all   Get     to  bc sanctionr-d.         Wlc
         *
         vnce      again    reiterate          our   opposition       to    the   plan    in   its
         present        form.

  4      TYur oun documents               state-     that   tlere     exists      a
    ..   'oonfc      ontations.-        and ;:'g9her::qly        .antagonistio'         relationchip



                                                           ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~




                                                       :'Td                   D2US RI WdTZ:t'G96, GT wnr
L/9'd

                       between        the   forest     department       and  the    adivazsi    and    that    I n
                       future       is   liXely     to   'con-tinum     to  (be]   strain[ed].       '   Yet   it
                       depends        on just     this    section     to decide      on the future          of the
                       adivasi.        It  might     b,eleqal,       but it   certainly       is
                       illegitimate.

                       We cannot and will not be part of a plan that is essentially
                       anti-people         in   nature..     I1oreover,     it  would     seem that       we are
                       to    be consulted         on and asked        to  be executors        of the      micro-
                      plan. In all fairness you will appreciate that we woule not
                     .like to be 'contractors' and                    execute a plan we are not part
                      of     in   either     its   policy      development      nor    formulation.

                      our. role        in  the    present..    plan   would   seem to      push   u5 into
                       .active      opposition_:      '.paraphrase         the   father      of our      nation,
                    ::tSher'      comes    a time     when it      bedomes    the    duty    of citizena         to
                   * actively          oppose     the   Illegal      acts  of   their     government.

               6      -Despite        recording      our   objections      with    you,    there     s;eems to     be
                      no -will        to address-th}im!         R'e are   thus   forced      to go to       a more   =
                      -pubJlii.     f drum.   Even aL t.this       late   stage    we -would urge         you to
                      start       m   genuine     dialoque      withL the    people,     who have        a plan    to
                      ;develop        their   homelands:,       and   suspend    the project         till    then.

...-:          7 '   .In the-meanwhile.              please     send    to the   following       a full      set   of
                      plan      documents,        and: keep     us informed      of any further
                      -devxlopenacts.          3?raision      'hould.    baL made tor      adequate       time    and
                     .otber resources             to  translate       antd share     thq   plan   with      the
                      adivasi..        cnly   then, .if. they        do- give   their     informed       consent,
                     .thould thc proJect              be qivrenthe        go ahead.

                          1RD D,-P7ost- bx         Z3,    Kusalnagar,        Karnataka,       India      571234
                      . -DEED,. Hunsur,           Mysore     District,     Karnataka,        India     571105
                          viRASt\,-I D Kota,            Mys-ore    District, Karnataka,           India      571114
                          ICDSS/TJAc,          Tcar A      amiin college,       Kalya    gate    extension,
                            Sargadi,      Karnataka     ilndia       563120
                          FEVORD-K, 44 Hfew -Bambyo-.            Bazaar Road,        Cantonment,
                          Bangalore,         Karnataka     ;.-India     5560 aSl




              V 5 Roy Dbavid,
              SecrGtuxry
              CORD.
              Dangoelore        usrni;s,I                           o                         odgDstct
              ' -'Junee. 19996.
       *: ..' cC.D1Et,:HWISslr            and Vik)asa~., 'S-D     Kate

    ff .      C6RD: .tos3t       Boxw2a,- 1l9/1         4'ch 2lo<X,      Kushalnagar,       iRodagju Distcrict,
  -<.:*         an7t6xa.          India    571234,
                           ,d.--=ax:    5-9l*.2    Sz76,
                                                      ?44Z7




        ZIL               *--S                                                *d              e            O

        L/L od                                                                       3D6~     EZ WdlZ:I'0.
                                                                                               m              96,r 6T
                                                                                                                       Nnr

                                                    eJ;Qew Ss,a

        NAGARAHOLE BUDAKATTU HAKKU
                               STAPANA SAMITHI
         Gadldehadi, Nagarhole P.O, Sou th Kodlag,u,Kartnataka,          S.INDIA, Pin-5 71 250

                                                                                        Date: 06-08-97
   To,
   The Chairman,
   Review Panel World Bank Projects,
   WORLD BANK,
   1818 H, Street N.W.
   Washington D.C.20433,
   U.S.A.


                                      TELEFAX: (202) 477-6391
   Dear sir,


        Sub: Request to review Nagarhole Eco Development Plan,    stop funding immediately, your
                                           intervention urged.

   We the members of NAGARHOLE BUDAKATTU HAKKU                     STAPANA SAMITHI (Nagarhole
   Tribals Rights Restoration Committee) hcrewith record our   protest against the proposcd Nagarhole
   Eco Development plan & tribal rehabilitation supported   by World Bank and implemented through
   Kamataka Forest Department which is against the wishes,     aspirations and the tribal laws of the
   land.


   Inspite of our repcatcd protcsts World Bank secms to bc dctermincd     to Fund this project through
   Kamataka     Forest Department to evict the Adivasis from their home         land in the name of
   rehabilitation, protection',management and eco tourism, It is further convincing for us through the
   statements issued by none other than the Kamataka Forest   Minister Mr.Nagamarpalli which reads
   that the the World Bank has rclcased Rs. 30 crore for the rehabilitation of Nagarhole tribals. This
   will further contribute to cultural marginalisation of adivasis  and it amounits to Human riglhts
   violation. This is also against the World Bank directives which   is a clear contradiction of World
   Banks lending principles.

   We therefore demand your intervention at once and review       the project, stop unproductive and
   destructive funding. If the World Bank is really interested  let it look into the people's plan and
   laws relating to local Self Governance. We hope you will    do the needful and contribute to social
  justice.


  Yours sincerely,




   Mr.J.L.Subramani                 Mr.J.K.Babu                      Mr.J.T.Rajappa
   Convenor (NBHSS)                 Convenor (BKS)                   Convenor (ASR)

   Copy to:                     _
   I) Mr. Prucc Rich EDF.Washington DC, U.S.A
   2) Mr.S.R.Hiremat, SPS, Dharwad. INDIA




CSA

ANNEX2

   THEWORLDBANK/IFC/M.I.G.A.
   OFFICE MEMORANDUM

f    DATE:   May 5, 1998


        TO:  Mr.AlvaroUmafia,Chairman,The InspectionPanel

     FROM:   JamesD. Wolfensohn,President,InternationalDevelopmentAssociation

 EXTENSION: 85120


   SUBJECT:  INDIA - Ecodevelopment Project (Cr. No. 2916-IN; GEF TFG No. TF028479-lN)
             Management Response to Request for Inspection

             1.     Referenceis madetothe MemorandumdatedApril3, 1998,tothe Presidentof
             the InternationalDevelopmentAssociation,bywhichthe Chairmanof the Inspection
             PanelrequestedAssociationManagementto providethe Panelwithwrittenevidencethat
             it hascompliedor intendsto complywiththe relevantpoliciesandproceduresinthe
             implementationof theEcodevelopmentProject.

             2.     The RequestforInspectionalleged,withrespecttoNagarholein Karnataka,that
             the AssociationviolatedtwoOperationalDirectives(OD),namnelyOD4.20Indigenous
             Peoplesand OD4.30InvoluntaryResettlement.ThePanelalsonotedthattheremaybe
             issuesrelatingto OperationalPolicy(OP)4.36(Forestry).Managementconsidersthatit
             has compliedwiththeseODsand the OP. Withrespectto OD4.20(IndigenousPeoples),
             the broadparametersforcompliancewiththe OD,includingmeasuresforongoing
             consultation,wereagreedduringappraisalandmicroplansare requiredpriortoeachset
             of investmentsat thevillagelevel. Thesemicroplansmustbepreparedby,andbe
             agreeableto,the involvedpeople. Withrespectto OD4.30(InvoluntaryResettlement),
             the covenantsare unambiguous;therewillbeno involuntaryresettlement.Withrespect
           -to OP 4.36 (Forestry), the Panel did not makeclear.where its concerns lay. Someof the
             aspectsof the OParecoveredby OD4.20. Withrespectto the issueof forestpolicy,the
             NagarholeProtectedAreaisa nationalparkcoveredunderthe WildlifeActandnota
             forestreservecoveredunderthe forestlegislation.The WildlifeActhasbeenaddressed
             separatelyinthe Response.

             3.     ManagementreiteratesheresixrelatedpointsincludedintheattachedResponse.

                 First,whenthisProjectwasproposed,pastexperiencepointedtowardsa process
                design. Weknewwedidnot haveallthe answersandthata processwasneededto
                establishongoingplanningmechanismsandsimultaneouslytoget thingsdoneonthe
                ground.Thisprocessapproachiscriticalto understandingthe issuesraisedinthe
                 Requestand theAssociation'scompliancewithOD4.20. Managementwasopen
                aboutthe processdesignof the project.

                                             -2 -


    * Second,substantialconsultationtookplacepriortoappraisal.About35NGOswere
       involvedinthesevensitesand many ParticipatoryRuralAppraisals,Social
       Assessments,studies,workshops,and discussionswithgroupsor individualsinthe
       fieldwereheld. Thosethat tookplaceat Nagarholeare indicatedintheResponse.

    * Third,Nagarhole,the siteof concernin the RequestLetter,is the mostchallengingof
       the sevensitesbecauseof a historyof mistrust betweentribalpeopleand government.
       TheProject wasdesignedto helpaddressthese longstandingproblems.Wethinkthat
       the issueis notthatthe concernsof tribal peoplehavenot beenlistenedtoor
       understood,butthatthe solutionsare verycomplexandcannotbeeasilyresolved.

    * Fourth,implementationhasnot yet startedat this particularsite. Thefirstfunding
       underthe Projectreachedthispart of the Projectonlya fewweeksago. Intensive
       supervisionisplanned. Management'sintentionis tocomplywiththe relevantODs
       and OPsin theimplementationof this Project,as it hasduringthedesignphase.

    * Fifth,the processesset upunderthis Projectare basedonpriorexperience.They
       drawpartlyfromthe experienceof participatoryprocessesinparksinothercountries
       and fromthe experiencein Indiawith"joint forestmanagement".Theyalsodraw
       froma successfulpilot in India,the Kalakad-MundanthuraiTigerReserveinTamil
       Nadu,fundedunderthe ForestryResearchEducationandExtensionProject.

    -  Finally,Managementhas beenopenabout Projectrisksthroughoutproject
       processing. It waswellunderstoodthat it wouldbea controversialProjectlargely
       becauseof divergentviewscomingfromthose withinterestsin biodiversityand from
       thosewithinterestsin expandingpeople'saccesstoresources.

    4.     Managementstandsreadyto provideany additionalassistancethatthe Panelmay
- --requireforthe purposesof preparingitsrecommendationtothe ExecutiveDirectorsand
    wouldbehappytomeetwiththe Panel forthis purpose.

                   -.                   INDIA

                     ECODEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                (Cr. No.2916-IN; GEF TFG No. TF028479-IN)

              MANAGEMENTRESPONSETO INSPECTION PANEL


                                   I. INTRODUCTION

 1.     Thisis the IDAManagementresponseto IPNRequestRQ98/1providingtothe
Panelwrittenevidencethatit hascomplied,and intendsto comply,withtherelevant
policiesand proceduresinthe designandimplementationof the above-referenced
Project. Theresponserefersto the RequestLetterfromthe NagarholeBudakattuJanara
HakkusthapanaSamithy(NBJHS).

2.      The Requestallegesviolationsof OperationalDirectives(ODs)4.20(Indigenous
Peoples)and 4.30(InvoluntaryResettlement).The Panelalso notedthattheremaybe
issuesrelatingto OperationalPolicy(OP)4.36 (Forestry).

3.      Theresponseis in fourparts:Background,Summaryof Conclusions,Discussion,
and Conclusion. Attachedare fourAppendices:ProjectFactSheet,MatrixRelating
Projectto OD4.20 (IndigenousPeoples);Sequenceof MainDatesfromProject
Identificationto the Present,anda letterofresponsedatedJune 18,1996.


                                   I. BACKGROUND


4.      The objectivesof the Projectare: (i) to assistinthe conservationof biodiversity
by implementingan ecodevelopmentstrategythatwouldincreasecollaborationbetween
peoplein andaroundthe ProtectedAreas(PAs)and PAmanagersand improvePA
management;and, (ii) tosupportthe preparationof futurebiodiversityprojectsinIndia.
The lessonsfromotherconservationprojectsinareaswithhumanpressureshavebeen
that a top-down,target-based,approachhasnot worked;that buildingconsensusis
difficultand takestime;thatparticipationat grassrootslevelis essential;andthat
reciprocalcommitmentsbetweengovernmentand localcommunitiesare needed.This
past experience pointed towards a process design project which, after a period of
indicative planning to establish theframework and define appropriate processes,
proceeded to get things done on the ground. Understanding this process approach, which
wasconveyedto, andacceptedby,the Board,is criticalto understandingtheissuesraised
in theRequest.

                                                 2



 5.     TheProjectdesignand legalagreementsare intendedto minimizeanyadverse
impactsonpeoplewithlongstandingrightsto accesswithinparks. Thekeyelementsof
projectimplementationare:(i) a processof villagelevelplanning(microplanning)I
throughwhichindividualfamiliesandgroupscanexpresstheirneedsand getfinancial
supportforimprovedstoves,fodderplanting,weaving,tailoring,mushroomcultivation,
electricfences,trainingas natureguides,developingtouristaccommodationetc.;and,(ii)
a ProtectedAreaManagementplanningprocessthroughwhichlocalpeoplecanincrease
their involvementinoverallparkplanningandmanagementandresolveconflicts.People
canelectnot toparticipateineitherof the abovetwosets ofactivities. Somefundsare
providedforthosewhowishto requestvoluntaryrelocation.Theamountsforthishave
not beenaccuratelyprojectedbecausethereis norelocationtarget,but itis expectedtobe
about 1%r0f the total project costs. The Project does not require anyone to moveand,        in
fact, contarinsprovisions whichprevent governmentfrom requiring this in sites receiving
Association assistance.

6.      Wid      specttoprojectimplementationatthe Nagarholesite,the Projecthasnot
yet started,al      ghtwodraftmicroplanshavebeenprepared. Unioncabinetclearance
did not comethroughuntilthe end of October1997andno fundsweremadeavailable
throughtheKarnatakastate budgetto the Projectauthoritiesuntil March31, 1998,the
lastdayofthe financialyear.


                            Ill. SUMMARY OF CONCLUSIONS

7.      In relation to the above-referenced Request for Inspection, Management's position
is as follows:

        * With respect to OD 4.20 (Indigenous Pcoples), the main allegations are that
             the Association has overlooked the existence of tribals in Nagarhole National
             Park (one of seven Protected Areas covered under the Project), that the Project
             fails to comply with OD 4.20, and that informed participation has not taken
             place. Management does not agree and considers that it has complied
            with this OD. The requirements of the OD have been addressed during
             project design and are being addressed in the implementation phase. The
             broad parameters for compliance, including measures for ongoing consultation


 Microplanning   comprisesmappingof thcPA-peopicinterface  collaboratively
                                                                         withthelocalpcoplc
     mobilizedthroughthevillagcEcodcvelopmcnt    CommittceandwiththePAauthorities  to:(i)idcntify
     andprioritizcimpacts,bothpositivcandncgativc,of thePAon peopleandviccvcrsa;and(ii)draw
     upaplanformitigatingthencgativcandcnhancingthepositivebydeveloping:mutuallyapproved
     objectives,investments,inputs,obligationson bothsides,implementationschedule,monitoring
     indicators,
               agreedarrangements  forcostandbenefitsharing,assessmentof proposalswithrespectto
     eligibilityandfeasibility,administrative
                                           arrangements,training,Participatory
                                                                            RuralAppraisal
     exercisestoensureavoiceforvulnerableandoftenexcludedgroups,etc.

                                                  3


               and securityof accessto rtesources,wereagreedduringappraisaland
               microplansare requiredpriortoeach investment.Thesemicroplansmustbe
               preparedby, and beagreeableto, the involvedpeople. Theintentionisto
               strictlysuperviseprojectimplementation.

          * With respect to OD 4.30. (Involuntary Resettlement), the main allegations
               are thatthe Associationhasfailedtocomplywiththe ODbynotmentioning
               the tribalhabitatsinsidethe parkandthatthe StaffAppraisalReport(SAR)
               insistsonrehabilitationof tribalsfromcoreareas. Managementconsidersit
               hascompliedwith this OD. TheSARclearlyrefersto2tribal peopleliving
               in the park and does not "insist on rehabilitation" as is claimed in the
              Request. The covenants are unambiguous; they state that the       ProjectStates
              shall not carry out any involuntary resettlementfor anypeople      resident within
              the ProtectedAreas(PAs). Furthermore,there is clearevidencethat
              Managementintendsto adhereto thisconditionality.Priortoappraisal,the
              SimilipalsiteinOrissawasdroppedfromthe Projectbecausetherewere
              doubtsaboutwhethera recentrelocationof peoplehadfollowedwhatwereto
              becomethe agreedcriteriaforvoluntaryrelocationunderthe Project.

          * WithrespecttoOP 4.36 (Forestry),the Paneldidnot makeclearwhereits
              concemslay,howeverManagementconsidersit hascompliedwiththis
              OP. Someof the aspectsof the OPare coveredby OD4.20.              Withrespectto
              the issueof forestpolicy,the NagarholeProtectedAreais a nationalpark
              coveredunderthe WildlifeAct andnota forestreservecoveredunderthe
              forestlegislation.The WildlifeActhasbeenaddressedseparatelyinthe
              Response.

  8.      Managementhas alwaysrecognizedthatthe Projecthassignificantrisksrelatedto
---participation,trust,realismof expectations,regionalpressures,extentof       implementation
  capacityand levelof governmentsupport3. Staffwereopenabout therisksthroughout
  Projectprocessing. It waswell understoodthatitwouldbe a controversialProject.
  Nagarholeis undoubtedlythe mostdifficultandambitiousof the sevensitesgiventhe
  historyof conflict,but,the process itselfis bynomeansuntested. A similarapproach
  underthe earlierForestryResearchEducationandExtensionProjectatthe              Kalakad-
  MundanthuraiTigerReserveinTamilNaduis workingwellwithsubstantialbenefitsfor
  bothpeopleand biodiversity.    4




   SARpage88

   Inparticular,inAnnex21, page296:"...it wouldbeunrealisticto cxpectthattheProjectwouldbeableto
       compictelyredresspastnegativeimpactsof thePAson localpeopic. FurtherTnoro,biologistsand
      socialscientistshavedifferentperspectivesandagendasthataresometimesimpossibletofully
       reconcile".

  4This experienceiswrittenupinarecentlypublishedSouthAsiaBrief.

                                              4



                                      IV. DISCUSSION

9.        Thediscussionaddressesfivemainareasof concem:projectdesign,issuesrelated
to OD 4.20,issuesrelatedtoOD4.30,other concems;and,OP 4.36(Forestry).


A. Concerns about Project Design

ThteRequest expresses concern about "Tlhe perplexing logic and pressuresfor thle
introduction of the project"(Page 1)

10.      Whilenot a matterrelatedto OperationalDirectivesor procedures,Management's
responseis thatthe logicandobjectivesof the Projectareclearlystatedinthe Project
Objectivessectionofthe SAR(page 8). Briefly,they are:"to improvecapacityof
ProtectedAreamanagementtoconservebiodiversityand increaseopportunitiesforlocal
participationin ProtectedAreamanagement...."and to "reducenegativeimpactsof local
peopleon biodiversity,reducenegativeimpactsof ProtectedAreasonlocalpeople,and
increasecollaborationof localpeoplein conservationefforts."

B. Concerns related to Operational Directive 4.20 on IndigenousPeoples

Thteallegations under this heading are: thzatthteAssociation has said thlatthlereare no
tribal people in tlhecore area of thiepark (Page 4, Item b (;i)); thtatOD 4.20 is
discarded in thtecase of tlhisproject (Page 3, Item b (i)); that any meaningful process of
informed participation of tribal groups and NGOs has not taken place (Page 4, Item b
(ii)); thlatOD 4.20 is evaded by not menti'oning the tribal habitats inside thiePark (Page
5, Item b (ifi)); that the project circumvents the OD 4.20 and tihattie project will not be
-handedover to tribals since the Association has overlooked thteexistence of tribals in
thtecore area (Page 5, Item b (iv)); and, thtatthteAssociation has misquoted
participants to consultations (Page 5, Item b (ii)).

Tribals ResidentWithinthePark

11.      In a numberofplacesinthe Requestthere are statementstotheeffectthatthe
Associationhas saidtherearenotribalpeople inthe 'core area' of thepark.Management
is not clearwhattherelevanceofthis statementis. It appearsto becorrectthatthereare
no peoplelivinginwhatis knownas the 'core area' (whichis nota legaldesignation).
                                                     5

The Projectdocumentshavemadespecificreferenceto about7,000tribalpeoplewho
liveinsidethe parkboundary(albeitnot withinthe 'core area') andanother70,000,both
tribal andnon-tribal,outsidetheparkwithinabout 2 kM 6. However,evenif therewere


 This'core area' isshowninred intheSARmap IBRD27844.

6SARAnnex6, page88.

                                                5


  peoplelivinginthe 'core area', whilerelevantto biodiversityconservation,it wouldbe of
  norelevanceto the issueof compliancewiththe OperationalDirectives.OD4.20applies
  toall tribalpopulationswherevertheyare located.OD 4.30wouldalsoapply,however
  the Projectdoesnot includeinvoluntaryresettlement.

  The Incorporationof OD 4.20RequirementsintoProjectPreparationandImplementation

  12.     No separateTribalDevelopmentPlanwas prepared,becauseoverhalfof the
  projectbeneficiariesaretribalpeopleand all areashavesignificantnumbersof tribal
  people.Therefore,inaccordancewith OD4.20,para. 13the provisionsof theODwould
  apply tothe entireProject.7Appendix      2 providesa detailedresponsetoeachof the
  substantiveissuesraised.

  13.     Regardingthe allegationthat meaningful"informedparticipation"hasnot taken
  place,Management'sresponseis that OD 4.20 wascompliedwithandthatinformed
  participationdidtakeplace. Theframeworkforcompliance,includingarrangementsfor
  consultation,resourcesecurity,and implementation,werediscussedatappraisaland
  agreedinthe legaldocuments. Adherenceto the OD hasbeen,andis being,carriedout
  withinthe frameworkof a process-orientedprojectwithindicativeplanningcoming
  beforeappraisalandmoredetailedconsultationfollowingduringimplementation.

  14.     Weoutlinetheprocessinthe followingparagraphs.TheProjectwasdesignedto
  involvea twophasethree-stepprocess. Indicativeplanningtoestablishthe mainareas of
  conflict,appropriateparticipatorymechanisms,eligibletypesof investment,and effective
  institutionalarrangementswasundertaken duringprojectpreparation.Themoredetailed
  consultativemicroplanningand ProtectedAreamanagementplanning,duringwhich
  individualfamiliesand groupsexpresstheir needsand resolveconflictsina contextwith
  fundingavailable,willbecarricdout during projectimplementation.Thesethreesteps
--are elaboratedbelow.


  A. Project Preparation Stage

  15.    Indicative Planning and Consultation. 5 The Staff AppraisalReport outlines in
  Annex4 the mainconsultativestepsin the developmentof the Projectdesignuptoand
  includingappraisal.About35NGOswere involveddirectlyinprojectpreparationwork
  forthe wholeProjectwhichincludedParticipatoryRuralAppraisals,SocialAssessments,
  villagemeetings,workshops,and discussionswithindividuals.AtNagarhole5 NGOs
  were involvedeitherinworkshopsor studics: IndianInstituteof PublicAdministration,


   OD4.20, para.13says:"Whenthebulkof thedirectprojectbeneficiariesareindigenouspeople,thc
      Bank'sconcernswouldbeaddressedbytheprojectitselfandtheprovisionsof thisODwouldthus
      applytotheprojectinitsentircty."

   ThetermIndicativePlanningas usedhere referstoall the projectprepamtionandappraisalwork..

                                                6


 Mysore Resettlement and Development Association         (MYRADA), Society for Promotion
 of Wasteland Development (SPWD), SETT         and Bharatiya Agro-Industries Foundation
 (BAIF). Discussions were held by staff with a    few others. At Nagarhole the sequence of
 consultative steps was as follows:

     (a)        Over the period August 1993 to March 1994       the Indian Instituteof Public
                Administration (IIPA), funded by GEF through       UNDP, carriedout an
                Indicative Planning excercise. This involved     field visits by IIPA staff to
                the area, Participatory Rural Appraisal   (PRA) training programs,meetings
                and workshops, and a PRA excercise      which, in Nagarhole, wassub-
                contracted to MYRADA. It covered 14 villages,        one of them inside the
                park, the rest very close to the boundaries in locations  wherethere were
                substantial park impacts on people or people impacts     on parks. (OD4.20,
                15 (b),(e), (f)). This exercise led to some frustration because localpeople
                expected funds to be immediately available.     It was thereforedecided not
                to raise expectations by including more   villages inside the parkat that
                time.

    (b)         In November 1994 three Bank staff held     discussions with individualsand
                small groups of tribals at several locations  both inside and outsidethe
               park. Discussions were held also with      national and localNGOs. In
                particular, a Bank social scientist had discussions  with people in 3 villages
               inside the park 9 and 3 villages outside. Separately a    Bank ecologisthad
               discussions with an NGO already working        inside the park. The Aide
                Memoire of this mission (November 28, 1994)       identified the need for
               additional studies and the need to expand    the studies to tribals within the
               park. Ofparticiular relevance to the allegations    related to relocationis
               that, at thispoint in theprocess, the pre-appraisal    mission iwas
               instrumental in halting an earlier resettlement    plan whichwvasto move all
               or most of the tribal residents outtof the park

    (c)        In February 1995, a Social Impact Assessment,       again, using Participatory
               Rural Appraisal (PRA) methods was carried       out by an NGO - the Society
               for Promotion of Wastelands Development        (SPWD). Ten villagesin
               locations mostly on the park boundary fromjust       inside to about4 km
               outside were sampled. Meetings were held       by SPWDwith 3 other NGOs
               - MYRADA, DEED, and Fedina Vikasa.           A range of aspects were
               explored including income earning activities,    reliance on forests, problems
               faced by people, and possible Project    investments. (OD4.20, 14, 15,)

    (d)        In April 1995 an Ecodevelopment Study       was carried out by an NGO
               MYRADA using PRA methods in 9 villages           inside and near the periphery


9There areabout45 hamletsinsidethepark.

                                                7


                   ofthe park. Main informationrelatedtofamilydata,landholdinganduse,
                   incomesources,assets,public amenities,linkagesto sourcesof labor,
                   cultureandreligion,forest and non-timberforestproductdependence,
                   wildlifedepredationsproblems,aspirations,and attitudestorelocation.
                   (OD4.20,para. 15)

       (e)         September26, 1996twostaff metNGOsandtribalsin Bangalore.'°

       (f)         In December1996,priorto effectiveness,a stakeholderanalysis(Goal
                   OrientedProjectProgramming(GOPP))wascarriedoutbyOm                  v
                   Consultantsfundedout of the ProjectPreparationFacilitytofeedintothe
                   implementationplan. During this analysisdiscussionswereheldwitha
                  rangeofstakeholdersincludingtribals,NGOs,Departmentstaff,etc.(OD
                  4.20,para. 15)

       (g)         Duringthe firstreviewmission(in effecta supervisionmission,butprior
                  toprojecteffectiveness)inFebruary 1997,priorto anybudgetary
                  allocationtothe project,furthermeetingswereheldwithNGOsandtribals
                  (onemeetingwith50tribalrepresentativesof HD Kotetaluk(an
                  administrativeblock)including10women,twovisitstovillagesonpark
                  periphery,one visitinsidepark). Duringthismissionthe 'People'sPlan'
                  wasraisedbytribalsand five elementsdiscussed(information,local
                  participation,forester/tribalinterface,transparencyof financial
                  transactions,customaryrights). In discussions,the missionproposed
                  furtherdialoguebetweentribalsand the ForestDepartmentontheplanin
                  thecontextof the designedprojectprocess.

  16.     Basedontheseextensivecontacts, Managementconsidersthatconsultationwas
--adequate and informed. One additional aspect requires clarification: did the above
  sufficientlyaddressthelandrightsand usageissue? In particulardidit addressthe
  anomalythat,whilethe Wildlife(Protection)Act 1972doesnotallowpeopletobe
  residentinNationalParks,the practicehad generallybeentoallowtraditionalrightsto
  prevail? Management'sassessmentis thatthe land rightsissuewasidentifiedandwell
  understoodbothatthe nationaland site-specificlevelbythe timeof appraisal.The
  Project Agreement states that, "each state shall take all the necessary actions to ensure
  that the Project activitiesshall not erode the customary tenure rights over land and other
  assets of the tribalpopulation in the PAs". At Nagarhole the solutions will requirc
  furtherextensiveconsultationand conflictresolutionwithintheframeworkof the Project.
  The problemsseemlikelytobe best resolvedthrougha combinationofreciprocal
  agreementsatthe locallevelrelatedto customaryusage,somerationalizationof



  t0 WearcnotawareofanymeetingattendedbystaffinMysoreonAugust9, 1996whichismentionedin
       theRequestastheonlyspecificconsultationwiththeAssociation.

                                           8


boundaries,somevoluntarymovement,andagreementsonsharingof          parkmanagement
by-products,tourismincome,etc.

17.     A new issuethathas.emergedrecentlyis a SupremeCourtrulingof August22,
1997whichcalls forallstatesto issuethe furthernationalparknotificationsundersection
21 (thefinal notificationstage)of the Wildlife(Protection)Act 1972,withintwomonths
and "completethe processof determinationof rightsandacquisitionof landor     rightsas
contemplatedbythe Act withina periodof one year". Thismakesthe      processof
establishingrightstime-boundwhenit waspreviouslynottime-bound.Dependingon
howthe statesrespond,thiscouldreducethe states' freedomtosupportpeoplewithin
park boundaries. TheAssociationhas askedfora clarificationfromtheMinistryof
Environmentand Forestsabouthow thisrulingis expectedtoaffectthe commitments
madeunderthe Project. A responseis awaited. Thereare a    numberof differentwaysthe
states couldmeetthis order".

B. ProjectImplementationStage

18.     Microplanning.Thenextconsultativestagefollowingthe      IndicativePlanningis
the microplanningat the villageor hamletlevelwhichwasdesignedtobedone,with
financialresourcesprovidedbythe project,afterprojecteffectiveness.Microplanningis
nowscheduledtobuildupquickly. Thesemicro-planswouldmeetthe requirementsof
OD 4.20 inthe followingways:

    (a)       the PAMIA(ProtectedAreasMutualImpactAssessment)12
              microplanningprocess,a formof PRAexercise,whichwouldultimately
              cover 100percentof interestedvillages,involves:directconsultationand
              the incorporationof indigenousknowledge(ODpara8 and9);
              developmentplansbasedon fullconsiderationof optionspreferred(OD
              para 14(a));fullconsiderationof localsocialorganization,beliefsand
              resourceuse(ODpara 14(d));productionsystemssuitedtoneedsand
              environment(ODpara 14(e));and,plansforindigenouspeopleto         benefit
              directlyfromthe Projectinvestments(ODpara9).

    (b)       Themicroplanis approvedbysignatureof representativesof thevillage
              EcodevelopmentCommitteeandthe PAauthorities;and

    (c)       the involvementofNGOsin the processwouldbringinlocally
              experiencedpeopleincludingsociologicalexperts(OD4.20,pam5and
               14).



  WeareawarethatatleastonestatehasadvisedthccourtthroughanaMdavitthatitwillbeverydifficult
    to meetthetermsof theorder.

12ThePAMIAprocessisdescribedin SAR,page 121,Box1.

                                               9


19.     PA ManagementPlans. Inaddition,PA ManagementPlansaddressOD4.20
requirementsby:

     (a)        broadeningparticipationandcooperationof localpeopleandother
                stakeholdersthroughdirectconsultation,representationoncommittees,
                participationinworkshops,developingvisionstatements,rationalization
                of PA boundaries,andmanagementof forestsand otherresources(OD 15
                (d),(e), (g));

     (b)        enablingparticipatoryplanningto developwaysto mitigatenegative
                impactsof PAsonpeople(OD 15(d));and

     (c)        supportingdisseminationof PA plansandencouragingdebateofcritical
                emergingissues(OD14(a), 15(d)).

20.     TheSARAnnex7 onImprovedPA Managementsaysthat"beforefinalisation(of
the PA Plan)allstakeholdergroups...wouldhavethe opportunitytoreviewtheplanand
tocommenton its recommendations".Inaddition,the Associationwouldcommenton
the AnnualPlansandthe Projectconditionalityrequiresthat thosecommentsbetaken
intoaccount. It is withinthis PAManagementframeworkthat proposalssuchas the
People's Plan,attachedtothe Request,as wellas otherproposalsfromothergroups,will
bedebatedand the conflictsaddressed.

21.     SiteSpecificIssues. Nagarholeis the biggestchallengeof thesevensitesandwill
requireintensivesupervision.13Thissiteis moredifficultthanothersunderthe Project
becauseof a historyof mistrustbetweentribalsandgovernment. Asaninstructive
comparison,similarissuesexistat theGiriNationalPark in Gujarat,oncofthe other
Projectsites,but there hasbeena morecollaborativeapproachandbetterconsultation.

22.     Withrespectto the allegationinthe Requestthatthe Associationhasmisquoted
certainNGOsas havingbeenparticipantsat consultations/discussions,thishasbeen
raisedbefore. Draftsweresharedina spiritof consultationand therewasanerrorinan
earlierdraftof the StaffAppraisalReport,Annex4, whichhad inadvertentlylistedNGOs
that hadparticipatedina discussionthatwasnot directlya partof theprojectpreparation.
Thefinal versionof the SAR,Annex4, excludestheseNGOsand includesa footnoteon
page67 toclarify thatconsultationsrevealeda rangeof perspectivesamongNGOsand
that inclusionin the list doesnot implysupportforthe Project.

23.     Withrespecttoconsultationthroughcorrespondenceand specificallythe three
Icttersattachedtothe Request,one is tothe InspectionPanelnot totheAssociation.The

  Twosupervisionmissionsareplannedwithinthencxttwomonths.Initialmicroplanningactivitieswill
     startinthosevillages(themajority)whicharenotrepresentedbytheRequestandwhereearly
     progresscandemonstratc projcctbenefits.Thepossibilityof findinganeutralmediatorisbeing
     consideredforthoseareasreprcscntedbytheRequest.

                                              10


 othertwo,bothundatedand withsimilarconcerns,reached the AssociationaboutJune5,
 1996.OnewasfromMr.Roy David,the otherfromBudakattuKrishikaraSanghawith
 Mr RoyDavidas a signatory.ThesewererespondedtoonJune 18,1996ina lettertoMr
 RoyDavid(Attachedas Appendix4).

C. ConcernsRelatedto OperationalDirective4.30

Briefly, tlheallegations under tlhisheading are: thzatOD 4.30 is evaded by    not
mentioning the tribal habitats inside Nagarhole "in tlzeproject report     to WorldBank"
whicl, it is claimed, shows tlheintention of tlte concerned authorities topursueforceful
eviction (Page 5, Item (iii)); that the Association insists on rehabilitation of tribals
from thlecore areas by developintgvoluntary relocation opportunitiesfor people       (Page
3, para 3); and, that thteconcept of "localpeople" is used ambiguously (samepara).

24.     Management'sassessmentis that ithas compliedwith OD4.30. Asindicated
above,the SARindicatesclearlythat thereare tribalslivinginsideNagarholeNational
Park.TheRequestalsoclaimsthat"the (Bank)reportinsistsonrehabilitationof tribals
fromthe coreareasbydevelopingvoluntaryrelocationopportunitiesforpeople". Thisis
incorrect. Nowheredoesthe SARinsiston rehabilitation.Thelanguageofthe SARand
the legalagreementsis unambiguous.The legaldocuments(ProjectAgreement
Schedule)forthe Projectspecifythat 14

     5 (a)     "TheProjectStatesshall, inpursuingthe objectivesof the Project,not
               carryout anyinvoluntaryresettlementforanypeopleresidentwithinthe
               PAs."

     5 (c)     "Anyproposalsforvoluntaryrelocationof peopleunder......the Project
               shallbepreparedand implementedinaccordancewithcriteriaagreedwith
               the Associationandthe Bank,andafter priorapprovalof theAssociation
               andthe Bank."

    5 (d)      "Eachof the ProjectStatesshallprepareinaccordancewithprocedures
               andguidelinesagreedwiththe Associationandthe Bankanindicativelist
               of ecodevelopmentinvestmentsforpeopleoptingtoremainwithinthe
               PAs,andshallincludesuch peopleinthe villageecodevelopment
               activitiesunder.......the Project."

25.    Stafftookspecialcareto definethe meaningof 'voluntary',andtoensurethatthe
ProjectrelocationstrategywasconsistentwithOD 4.30and OD4.20(SARpage33,para
5.8andAnnex20). Priortothe invitationto negotiate,allrelevantdepartmentsagreed
thatissuesrelatingtorelocationweresatisfactorilyaddressed.Thestategovemment


14ProjectAgreementScheduleparas.5 (a),5(c),andS(d).SeealsotheMinutesofNegotiation   para.18,
    whichreferstotheSARAnnex20.

                                             11


confirmedseveraltimesthat,since theNovember1994preappraisalmission,theyhadnot
carriedoutactivitiesthatcould be consideredimplementationof a resettlementplanthat
hadnot beenreviewedand approvedby theAssociation.15

26.     Management's actions to date demonstrate its strong opposition toforced
relocation. TheSimilipalsite in Orissawasdroppedfromthe Projectpriortoappraisal
preciselybecausethereweredoubtsaboutwhetherthe relocationcarriedoutduring
projectpreparationfullycompliedwiththe Association'sunderstandingof a voluntary
process. Furthermore,as indicatedabove,thepre-appraisalmissionwasinstrumentalin
haltingplansforresettlementinNagarhole.

27.     Managementis awareof at least somedemandforvoluntaryrelocation.Letters
havebeenreceivedfromtribalrepresentativeswhoarenota partyto the Requestwho
haveexpressedthe clearwishof somepeopletorelocate.

28.     Finally,withrespectto the allegationthatthe conceptof "localpeople"is used
ambiguouslyallowingformisinterpretationandthusforthedislocationof the tribals
forcefully,wedisagree. The languageof the SARandthe legalagreementsisveryclear,
therelevantconditioninthe ProjectAgreementsays: "TheProjectStatesshall,in
pursuingthe objectivesofthe Project,not carryoutanyinvoluntaryresettlementforany
people resident within the PAs."(emphasis added)


D. Issues Related to OP 4.36 (Forestry)

29.     Thishasbeenrespondedto aboveunderSummaryof Conclusions.

E. OtherConcerns

Brie7ly, the allegations under tlhisheadingare:

1. thlatbiomass generation proposals miglhtimbalance the ecology of theforest (Page 5,
Item (i));and,

2. thzattlheEco-Tourismprovision hasprovided scopefor big industrialists to open up
hotelsin tlteforests, such astlze Tajgroup development (Page 6,Item (i)).


30.     There are no violations of any OD in these two issues. On the matter of biomass
generation, the projectdesignshouldhelp tomaintain,andhopefullyimprove,the forest
ecology for three reasons. First, people participating in PA Management planning would
havean inputintowhatis planted. Second,any plantinginvestmentsproposedwithinthe
parkwouldhavetobe incorporatedintothe Annual Planof Opertions whichis subject
toAssociationapproval. Third,the eligibilitycriteriaformicroplaninvestmentsincludes


IS Minutes of Negotiations para. 20.

                                               12


a criteriathatthe proposalsbeenvironmentallysustainableandspecificallymentionsthe
issueof impactof exoticspecies.

31.     On the matterof the TajGrouphotel,the Projectdoesnot"providescope",as
alleged,forthe openingupof hotels. TheProjectdoesnot financehotelsinthepark,
althoughthe SARacknowledgesthatthere is an existingproposal.Thereare national
environment-relatedlawsandprocessesthat governsuchmatterswhichwehave
                                                          16
reviewedin thepast andwithwhichweare satisfied1. Weare awarethatboththe High
Courtof Karnatakaand theSupremeCourthave passedcertainjudgmentsonthis hotel
issueand wewouldconsiderit appropriatethatit be handledinthisway,throughthe
applicationof the enviromnentallawsof India.

                                     V. CONCLUSION

32.     In the lightof the aboveresponses,ManagementreiteratesthattheODsand OP
mentionedhavebeencompliedwithandthat the intentionis tocomplyduring
implementation.Implementationhasnotyet startedatthis site.Thechallengeliesahead.
Thereis a historyof mistrustbetweentribalsand governmentat Nagarhole,butthe
Projectis beingcondemnedforthe problemsitwas designedtoaddress.TheProjecthas
involvedsubstantialconsultationwhichcontinuesas a partof implementation.The
projectitselfwillbe a seriesof indigenouspeoplesdevelopmentplanswhichwillcallfor
a longand slowprocessof conflictresolutionand "informedparticipation"toaccomodate
a diversityof viewsfroma numberof stakeholders.




16ProjectAgreement,Schedulepara.5(b) states:" Eachof thcProjectStatcsshallensurethatactivitics
    outsidcthescopeof the Projectshallnot undcrmine(i) effectivebiodiversityconservationwithinthe
    PAs,or (ii)implementationoftheecodevelopmentstrategyundertheProject."

                                       13


APPENDICES

1.ProjectFactSheet
2. MatrixRelatingProjectto OD 4.20(IndigenousPeoples)
3. Sequenceof MainDatesfromProjectIdentificationtoNow
4. LetterdatedJune 18,1996to Mr.DavidRoy

                                                                        APPENDIX1
                                       INDIA


                    ECODEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                (Cr. No. 2916-IN;GEF TFG No.TF028479-IN)

              MANAGEMENTRESPONSE TO INSPECTION PANEL



                                   FACT SHEET

  Borrower:                  India, Acting by its President
  Implementing Agencies:     Government of India, Ministry ofEnvironment and
                             Forests, and State Forest Departments of Bihar,
                             Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh,
                             Rajasthan, and West Bengal
 Amount:                     Total outlay: USS67 million;IDACredit of SDR19.5
                             million(US$28 millionequivalent); GEF Grant of SDR
                             13.9million(USS20 millionequivalent)
 Disbursed as of 4/30/98:
  Credit:                    SDR1.65m(USS2.26m)
 GEF Grant:                  SDR1.42m(USS1.95m)
  Board Date:                September 5, 1996
 Signing Date:               September 30, 1996
  EffectivcDate:             December27, 1996



--1. -- Project Objectives. Theobjectivesof the Projectare: (i)toassistinthe
 conservationof biodiversitybyimplementingan ecodevelopmentstrategythatwould
 increasecollaborationbetweenpeopleinand aroundthe PAsandPAmanagersand
 improvePAmanagement;and,(ii)to supportthe preparationof futurebiodiversity
 projectsinIndia.

 2.     Summary of Project Components. Theprojecthasfivecomponents:

        (a)   Improved PA Management (USS14m.- 22%of basecosts)includes:
              (i) improvingPA planningprocessesand buildingcapacity;
              (ii) protectingand managingecosystemsandhabitatswithinthe PA;
              (iii)upgradingPAamenitiesforfieldstaff;

        (b)   VillageEcodevelopment(USS34m.- 55%of basecosts)includes:
              (i) conductingparticipatorymicroplanningand
              providingimplementationsupport;

                                                2


                 (ii) implementingreciprocalcommitmentsthatfosteralternative
                 livelihoodsandresourceusesto be financedbya villageecodevelopment
                 programand that specifymeasurableactionsbylocalpeopleto improve
                 conservation;
                 (iii) specialprogramsforadditionaljoint forestmanagement,voluntary
                 relocation,andsupplementalinvestmentsforspecialneeds;

         (c)     Education & awareness and impact monitoring & research
                 (US$5m. - 8%of base costs) includes:
                 (i) promotingpublicsupportforconservationthroughenvironmental,
                 educationand awarenesscampaigns;
                 (ii) impactmonitoringandresearchto improveunderstandingof issues
                 and solutionsrelevantto PAmanagementand interactionsbetweenPA
                 andpeople;

         (d)     Overall Project Mangement (US5m. - 4% of base costs); and


         (e)     Preparation of future biodiversity projects (US$2m. - 3% of base
                 costs).


 3.      Strategy


 As a program of targeted intervention, the project would conserve seven globally
 significant biodiversity sites in the megadiversity country of India through an
 ecodevelopmentstrategyinandaroundsevencriticalprotectedareas(PAs)by:(i)
 improving the capacity of PA management to protect and manage ecosystems and to
 increaseopportunitiesforlocalparticipation;and (ii) tomapcollaborativelythe PA-
 Peopleinterfaceandto workwithlocalpeople todraw.upplansforreducingthe
 ,negative,and enhancing the positive impiacts.The project isbeing implemented bythe
.

 ForestDepartmentsinthe statesof Bihar,Gujarat,KarnatakaKerala,MadhyaPradesh,
 RajasthanandWestBengal.Theprojectincorporatesmeasuresto addressthe concerns
 of poorsub-groupssuchas tribals,womenandthe landless.About427,000villagersare
 expectedtoparticipateinthe projectandof these, 89,000areresidingwithinthe PAs.

 4.      Present Status

 Improved PA Management. Initial progress has been made in most states. Capacity
 building initiatives are starting to show results. PA staff are now generally familiar with
 the underlying objectives and strategies. In most cases, competent teams have been
 assembled for the preparation of management plans. Most states have understood the
 rationale for taking into account a regional perspective. PA management issues include
 the following: Periyar in Kerala face the impact of Pilgrims of Sabarimalai; Gir in Gujarat
 has two major temples within the PA and a state highway passing through it; Buxa in W
 Bengal is surrounded by tea estates whose laborers impact on the PA; Pench in Madhya
 Pradesh has to address issues related to fishing rights within the PA; grazing is a major

                                            3


issueinRanthamboreinRajasthan;Pench inBihar hassecurityproblems;inKarnataka,
the currentmanagementteamfacesconsiderableconflictsduetodivergentperpectivesof
differentgroupsina parkwithabout 7,000peopleinsidetheboundary.

VillageEcodevelopment.Allstates,especially,WestBengal,Kerala,Gujarat,Rajasthan
and Biharhavemadeconsiderableprogressin initiatingdialogueswiththe local
communitiesandstakeholders.Localpeople havebeenmobilizedintoEcodevelopment
Committeesto enablegroupaction.Moststates haveissuedGovernmentOrders
providinglegalrecognitiontothe committees.Thishasalsopavedthewayforensuring
transparencyintransactions.The microplansfromWestBengalhavea majorfocuson
smallscale irrigation. InKerala,forestrystaff, togetherwitha localNGO,havehelpedto
arrangenewjobs intea estatesforinterestedmembersof oneecodevelopmentcommittee
who otherwiseare completelydependentonthe PA. In twoothercommunities,the
microplansare empoweringlocalpeopleto addressa monopolisticmarketingsituation.
Gujarathasusedthe projectfundsas leverageto attractfundsfromothersourcesandhas
planneda varietyof microenterprisesincludingimpartingtrainingindiamondcutting.
ThemainfocusinPalarnau(Bihar)andNagarhole(Kamataka)atpresentis onsolar
fencingto ensureprotectionfromelephants. Landbasedactivitiesandprotectionfrom
wildlifefigureprominentlyin Pench (MadhyaPradesh)andRantharnbore(Rajasthan).
PA authoritiesinRajasthanhavealso re-initiatedconsultationsonvoluntaryrelocation
withresidentsofthreehamletsnear, and one hamletwithin,thecoreareaof the PA.

Education &awarenessand impactmonitoring &research. Plansare beingprepared
for the componentoneducation& awarenessand impactmonitoring&research.While
an initiallist of topicstobe researchedinto havebeenidentified,it isprovingdifficultto
find a singleagency(ineachstate)whichcan undertakethecomponentof researchand
impactmonitoringin itstotality.Alternativearrangementsare beingworkedout.Thisis
provingverystaff-intensiveforthe Bankat present.

Response on provisions of OD 4.20



                                                                                                                                        APPENDIX2
Indian EcodevelopmentProject
Management's Responseto the Requestfor Inspectiod
Detailedresponse
               onprovisionsof Operational Directive4.20- IndigenousPeoples




         Issue                                           Response

OD4.20 Definitions
Para.
S        Useof specializedanthropologicalandsociological Specialistanthropologistsandsociologistshavebeenincludedas        integral
         expertsthroughouttheprojectcycle                membersof all Bankmissionsduringpreparationand implementation.
                                                         Specialistsocialscientistshavebeenusedinthepre-appraisalconsultationsthat
                                                         tookplace.TaskteammanagementtransferredtoSocialDevelopmentUnitof
                                                         theNewDelhiOfficeinMay 1997and2 socialdevelopmentspecialistsbecame
                                                         centrallyinvolvedinon-goingsupervision.Thiswasdonefortwo reasons- the
                                                         projectwasbasicallyaboutsocialand institutionaldevelopment,and it brought
                                                         taskmanagementcloserto theclient.Taskteammanagementisnowshared
                                                         betweenHQandtheNewDelhiOffice.

ObjectiveandPolicy

6        Ensurethatindigenouspeoplesdo notsuffer         Themainobjectiveof theprojectisto buildthebasisfora partnershipwiththe
         adverseeffectsduringthedevelopmentprocess       StateForestryDepartmentsandaffectedlocalstakeholders,bothtribalandnon-
                                                         tribal,inandaroundtheprotectedareas.TheGovernmentof Karnatakahas
                                                         signedthelegalagreementswithIDAcommittingitselftovoluntary
                                                         resettlement,andtomicro-planning(as outlinedinAnnex8of the SAR).As
                                                         indicatedinthc SAR (p.8 #2.4)most of the village ecodevelopmelit investments
                                                         will take place in the peripheral areas. The project has beendesigned to ensure
                                                         thattherightsof indigenouspeoplearenotfurthereroded.

7         Howtoapproachindigenouspeoplesaffectedby       T'hecontroversybetweenthe ForestDepartmentoftheGOKandcertaingroups
          developmentprojectsisa controversialissue      of indigenouspeopleshaddevelopedbeforethepreparationof theproject. This
                                                         is recognized in the SAR (p. 2, para. 1.8and Annex 20) and   in the Indicative

Ecodeveloprment- Request for Inspection - provisions of O.D. 4.20                                                                   2




                                                      Plan. A centralobjectiveof theprojectistoaddressandresolveconflictby
                                                      buildinguppanicipatorystructures,and to focuson institutionalchangewithin
                                                      the ForestDepartment.Shiftingtherole of theForestDepartmentof thestates
                                                      involvedintheprojectfromthatof policemanto facilitatorwillbea
                                                      challengingaspectof theproject.

8       TheBatik'spolicyisthatthlestrategyfor         Therewassignificantinformedparticipationduringprojectpreparation.
        addressingtheissuespertainingtoindigenous     Preparatoryworkthrough3participatorystudiespriorto appraisalandoneGoal
        peoplemustbebasedon theinformedparticipation OrientedProjectProgramming(GOPP)exerciseafterappraisalwasdonein
        of theindigenouspeoplethemselves.             Nagarholeto gaingreaterunderstandingof people'sperceptionsof their socio-
                                                      economiccircumstancesandtheirviewsaboutdevelopmentopportunities.All
                                                      theseactivitiesinvolvedparticipationandinformationgathering.Therewere
                                                      alsovillagevisitsbyBankmissions.Thenatureof thisparticipationis
                                                      documentedinAnnex4 of theSAR.Duringprojectimplementation,
                                                      participationof indigenouscommunitieswillbe thecentralfocusinthe
                                                      preparationandexecutionof microplans,througha processknownas PAMIA.
                                                     .(ProtectedAreaMutualInteractionAssessment).

9       The Bankwillnotappraiseprojectsuntilsuitable  The projectitselfisa seriesof indigenouspeoples'developmentplansthrough
        plansaredevelopedbytheborrowerandreviewed     thevillage-levelmicroplans,andwitha significantcontributionthroughthe
        bytheBank.Indigenouspeoplemaywishto bcand ProtectedArea(PA)managementprocess.Projectpreparationwasbasedon the
        can beincorporatedintothedevelopmentprocess.  assumptionthat,beyondtheindicativeplanningphase(in whichtheframework,
        A fullrangeofpositiveactionsby theborrower    criteria,listsof eligibleinvestments,andparticipatoryprocesses,werebroadly
        mustensurethatindigenouspeoplebenefitfrom     defined),projectimplementationwill involve,as acriticalelement,the
        developmentinvestments.                       productionandexecutionof suchplans.
                                                      The proposedparticipatorymicro-planningprocessisdesignedto givechoices
                                                      topeople,bothtribalandnon-tribal,livinginand aroundtheNationalPark.
                                                      Therewouldonlybevoluntaryresettlementwheretribalsandnon-tribals
                                                      expresseda desiretomove,andwhereclearevidenceof voluntarinessis
                                                      apparent.TheoptiontoremainintlheNationalPark isalsoavailable.Theoption
                                                      torelocatewillnot betimebound.Annex8of theSARdealwiththe
                                                      constructionof Ecodevelopmentplans,andAnnex20 dealswithvoluntary
                                                      resettlement.The indicativeplanningprocessidentifieda rangeof possible
                                                      investments,whichformthebasisfordiscussionbetweentheForestDepartment
                                                     and theindigenouscommunitiesabouttheparticularinvestmentsappropriate

Ecodevelopnieit - Requestfor Inspection - provisions of O.D. 4.20                                                                    3




                                                      forparticularcircumstances,at thevillageand/orhamletlevel,bothwithinand
                                                      adjacenttoltheNationalPark.

        BanlklRole

10      The Bankaddressesissueson indigenouspeoples   Astudyof indigenouspopulationsin IndiawascompletedfortheBankinJune
        throughcountryeconomicandsectorwork.          1995.Thisprovidesa comprehensiveoverviewof thetribalpopulations
        Countrydepartmentsshouldmaintaininfomiation   throughoutthecountry.
        on trendsingovernmentpoliciesand institutions Clarificationof therecentSupremeCourtruling hasbeensoughtfromthe
        thatdealwithindigenouspeoples.Issues          Ministryof EnvironmentandForests,todetenmineitspossibleimpacton
        concerningindigenouspeoplesshouldbeaddressed coiimitmentsmadeundertheproject.
        explicitlyinsectorandsub-sectorworkand        The Bankhasgenerallydiscussedissuesconcerningindigenouspeopleatthe
        broughtintotheBank-countrydialogue.           projectlevel,giventhecontextualnatureof manyindigenouspeople'sissues.
        Nationaldevelopmentpolicyframeworksand        Sectorworkon incentivesforJointForestManagementhasalreadybeen
        institutionsforindigenouspeoplesoftenneedtobe produced,and a thematicapproachto supervisionof forestryprojectsisbeing
        strengthenedinordertocreatea strongerbasisfor developedinpartnershipwiththeBritishDepartmentforInternational
        designingandprocessingprojectswvithcomponents *Development.
        dealingwithindigenouspeoples.                 Discussionhas focusedon thedevelopmentof JointForestManagement
        The Banlkaddressesissueson indigenouspeoples  throughthe sectorprogramin Forestry,andhasbeenbasedon the 1988Forest
        throughtechnicalassistance.                   ProtectionActandtheevolvingstrategyof buildingpartnershipsbetweenthe
        TheBankaddressesissueson indigenouspeoples    ForestDepartmentandthepeopleinforestareas.
        throughinvestmentprojectcomponentsor          Mann'elementsintheprojectdesig,nareaimedat providingtechniicalassistance
        provisions...Whenthebulkof thedirectproject   thiroughthe recruitmentof a varietyof specialistconsultants,bothatthecenter
        beneficiariesareindigenouspeople,theBank's    andatprojectsites.
        concernswouldbeaddressedby theprojectitself   There vere pre-appraisaldiscussionsaboutwhetheror not a full Indigenous
        andtheprovisionsofOD4.20 wouldthusapplyto     People'sDevelopmentPlan(IPDP)shouldbeproducedbeforeappraisal.
        theprojectinitsentirety.                      ClearancewithrespecttoODs4.20and4.30 vas providedbyASTI-IRon June
                                                      19,1996,aflerextensivediscussion,particularlysurroundingtheissueof
                                                      voIlintaryrelocation.In accordanceivitihparagraph13of OD4.20 a decision
                                                      wastakeento applytheOD tothlewholeof theproject,ratherthanproducea
                                                      full IPDPup front.
l l     Countrydepartmentsshouldmaintaininfomiation   Seeresponseto paragraph10above.
        on trendsingovernmentpoliciesand institutions
        thatdealwithindigenouspeoples.
        Issuesconcerningindigenouspeopleshouldbe

Ecodevelopment - Request for Inspection - provisions of O.D. 4.20                                                                     4




         addressed explicitlyin.e5worandsubsectorwork
         andbrouglht  intotheBank-country  dialogue.
         Nationaldevelopmentpolicyframeworksand
         iistitutionsforindigeniouspeoplesoftenieedtobe
         strengthenedinordertocreatea strongerbasisfor
         designingandprocessingprojectswithcomponents
         dealingwithindigenouspeoples

12       Technicalassistancetodeveleop theborrower's      Seeresponsetoparagraph10above.
         abilitiestoaddressissueson indigenouspeoples
         canbeprovidedby theBank.
         Technicalassistanceisnormallygivenwvithin  the
         contextof projectpreparation,buttechnical
         assistancemavalsobeneededto strenglthenthe
         relevantgoverimentinstitutionsor tosupport
         developmentinitiativestakenby indigenouspeople
         themselves.


I3 .lIor      aninvestimienit
                           projectthatall'ectsindigeenous Thlie
                                                              decisioniwastakeen,andsupportedby management,thatmicro-plans
         peoples,theborrowershouldprepareanindigenous involvingfull participationof thelocalandtribalpopulationswvouldbeprepared
         peoplesdevelopimienitplanthatisconsistentwith    astheprojcctproceeded,sinceit wasjudgedthattheprojectcouldnot be
         theBank'spolicy.atiyprojectthataffects           preplannedindetailgiventhespecificityof localconditions.
         indigenouspeoplesisexpectedtoinclude
         componentsor provisionsthatincorporatesucha
         plan.Whenthebulkof thedirectproject
         beneficiariesareindigenouspeople,theBank's
         concernswvouldbeaddressedby theprojectitself
         andtheprovisionsof tilisOD wvould   thusapplyto
         theprojectinitsentirety.

indigenousP5IeoplesDevelopnientl'lan - Prerequisites.

14(a)    Thepreparationof a culturallyappropriate         Thedesignof theprojectrequiresthata culturallyappropriatedevelopmentplan
         developmentplanbasedon fullconsiderationof       bepreparedbeforeimplementationat eachof theprojectsites,usinga
         theoptionspreferredby theindigenouspeople        participatorymethodologyforallaffectedcommunities.These

Ecodevelopment - Request for Inspection - provisionisof O.D. 4.20                                                                     5




        affectedby theproject                          microdevelopmentplanswvillbebasedontheoptionspreferredbythe
                                                       indigenouspeoplethemselvesand wvillbeimplementedwiththehelpof local
                                                       NGOswhereverappropriate.

14(b)   Studiesshouldma;keall effortsto anticipate     Studiesandparticipatoryassessmentstoanticipateadversetrendswyere   carried
        adversetrendslikelyto beinducedby theproject   outpriortoappraisal,andwillcontinuetobecarriedoutduringthecourseof
        anddevelopthemeansto avoidandmitigateharm.     implementation.
                                                       The implementationprocessesareoutlinedinAnnexesto SAR.(Annex8 -
                                                       VillageEcodevelopmentstrategy.Annex20 - Peopleinthe ProtectedAreasand
                                                       VoluntaryRelocation,Annex7ImprovedPAManagement.
                                                       Mitigationeffortswereidentifiedpriortoappraisal,andprojectimplementation
                                                       involvesworkingwithindigenouspeopletoensurethattheybenefitfromthe
                                                       projectthroughthedevelopmentof appropriateactivitiesand institutions.


14(c)   Theinstitutionsresponsibleforgovernment        The institutionsresponsibleforgovernmentinteraction  donot currentlyhaveall
        interactionwitihindigenouspeoplesshouldpossess therequisiteskills.The projectaimstoequipgovernmentofficialswiththe
        thesocial,technical,andlegalskillsneededfor .  ,skillstodeliverimprovedPA Management,to supportparticipatorymicro-
        carryingout theproposeddevelopmentactivitics.  planningandimplementation,andto improveimpactmonitoringandresearch.
        Implementation  arrangemnitsshouldbc kept      (SeeAnniex7p. 115on trainingandthe indicativetrainingplan,andAnnex13
        simple.Theyshotildnormallyinvolveappropriate    for indicativecostsof suchtraining.)SpecialistNGOservicesandtheservices
        existinginstitutions,localorganizations,andNGOs of nationalexpertswillbeutilizedto developparticipatorymicro-planning
        withexpertiseinmattersrelatingto indigenous     processesduringimplementation.
        peoples.                                        Implemenitationarrangementsarerelativelysimpleandinvolveappropriate
                                                        organizationsandinstitutions.The SARdocumentsthesearrangements(Annex
                                                        8).

14(d)   Localpatternsof socialorganization,religious    Centralfeaturesof thedesignof theVillageEcodevelopmentstrategy,andthe
        beliefs,andresourceuseshouldbetakeninto         regionalstudiesassociatedwithPAmanagementincluderesourceuse,social
        accountintheplaii'sdesign.                      oreanizationandreligiousbeliefs.Oneof theeligibilitycriteriaforVillage
                                                        Ecodevelopmenit  investmentslistedinAninex8isthattheyareculturally
                                                        acceptable.

14(e)   Developmentactivitiesshouldsupportproduction    Thedevelopmentactivitieshave2 mainaims,(i)developingproductionsystems
        systemsthatarewelladaptedtotheneedsand          thatdecreasethenon-sustainableresourcepressureon theProtectedAreasand
        environmentof indigenouspeoples,andshould       fosterbio-diversityconservation,and(ii) supportingthedevelopmentof

Ecodevelopmnent- Request for Inspection - provisions of O.D. 4.20                                                                   6




        help productionsystemsunderstresstoattain     appropriateandsustainableproductionsystemsof thelocalpopulations.
        sustainablelevels.

14(f)   Thieplanshouldavoidcreatineoraggravatingihe   Thieprojectaimsto increaseparticipationby localcommunitiesinthe
       dependencyof indigenous    peopleonproject     managemiientof ProtectedArearesourcesin ordertogive greatercontrol by
       entities                                       communities,andtoreducedependencyon theForestDepartment.
        Planningshouldencourageearlyhandoverof        Projectplansincludegreaterinvolvementof localstakeholdersin the
        projectmanagemlient to localpeople.           developmentof PA management.In forestareasoutsidetheNationalPark,
        Asneeded,theplanshouldincludegeneral          governimientpolicy encouragesthepursuitof aJointForestManagement(JFM)
        educationandtraining inmanagementskills for   strategy.Theissuingof GovemmentOrdersto setup JointForestManagement
        indigenouspeoplefromtheoutsetof theproject.   Committeesin ProtectedAreascontrolledbytheForestDepartmentis a
                                                      prerequisitefor involving localpeopleandis pursuedin all Bank-supported
                                                      forestryprojects.The issuingof GovernmentOrdersto setupEcodevelopment
                                                      comiilltteesinreserveareasis aprerequisitefor involving localpeoplein the
                                                      EcodevelopiientProject.
                                                      Eachstateis intheprocessof developingatrainingplan for microplanningand
                                                     .implementationsupportpersonnelaswell asEcodevelopmentCommittee
                                                      membersandlocalNGOmembers.An indicativeplanis outlinedin Annex 8of
                                                      theSAR(p.141)


14(a)   Successfulplanninigfor indigenouspcoples      ITheprojectwasdesignedto takea processapproachpartlyto accomodatethe
        frequentilvrequireslong leadtimes,aswell as   longlead-timesandto build trust.Thlerehasbeenanextendedleadtilmein the
        arrangemilentsfor extendedfollow-up.          preparationof theprojecttoobtainasmuchstakeholderparticipationaspossible
        Remoteor neglectedareaswherelittle previous   andto ensurethatborrowercommitmentandownershipwasforthcoming.
        experienceisavailableoftenrequireadditional   Extendedfollow up will berequiredduringtheimplementationof theproject.
        researchandpilot programsto rine-tune         Theprojectitselfis designedto pilot innovativeapproachesandgainmore
        developmentproposals                          informiationaboutthecomplexitiesof successfulinterventionsin Protected
                                                      Areas,for possiblereplicationin oilier protectedareas.It coversonly 7outof
                                                      about450ProtectedAreasin India.
                                                      Preparatoryworkthroughi3studiesprior to appraisalandoneGoalOriented
                                                      ProjectProgramming(GOPP)exerciseafterappraisal,wasdonein Nagarholeto
                                                      gainagreaterunderstandingof people'sperceptionsof theirsocio-economic
                                                      circumstanccsandtheirviewsaboutdevelopmentopportunities.
14(h)   Whereeffectiveprogramsarealreadyfunctioning,  Thedesiginof theprojecthasalreadybuilt on theconceptualizationand
        Banksupportcantakethe formof incremental      participatoryplanningof theearlierprograms.TheSARoutlinesthelessons

                                                                                                                                          i



Ecodevelopmnent- Request for Inspection - proviisionsof O.D. 4.20                                                                      7




        fundingto strengthenthemratherthanilhe          leamtfrompreviousinterventions.   Todate,programsforsupportingPA/local
        development ofentirelynewprograms.             communitylinkageshavebeenlimitedandsmallscale.In recentyears,using
                                                       domesticfinancing,theMinistryof Environment    andForeitii`hasinitiateda
                                                       cenItrallY  sponIsored
                                                                            scICmCewithlanannualaveragevalueofsi millioniihalis
                                                       distributed  to dozensof PAs.TheBanlkhasfinancedfive forestryprojectswvith
                                                       biodiversitycomponents    thatincludevillageecodevelopmentinvestments
                                                       associated   withProtectedAreas.Implementation of theseprogramsisonlynow
                                                        beginniing.

Indigenous
         Peoplesdevelopment   Plan- Contents

15      Thedevelopment  planshouldbeprepared    in     Thedevelopment      planisbeingpreparedintandem. Themaininvestment   isin
        tandemwiththepreparation  of themaininvestimentthevillagemicro-plans   preparedinpartnershipwiththelocalEcodevelopment
        In manycases, properprotectionof righisof      Committees.   Thesecondmostimportantinvestment    isintheinstitutional
        indigenous peoplewill requiretheimplemenitationistrengthening  of theForestDepartment tomoreeffectivelycarryoutProtected
        of specialprojectcomponents thatlieoutsidethe  AreaManagement      inpartnershipwithlocalpopulations.
        primaryproject'sobjectives- includinghealthand  Interventions  intermsof specialprojectcomponents areenvisaged insupportof
        nutrition,productiveinfrastructure,
                                         linguisticand ,productiveinfrastructure,environmental  education
                                                                                                        andthedesignof culturally
        culturalpreservation,
                            entitlementtonatural        appropriate  strategies.
                                                                              Innovativeideasarisingfrommicroplanning  will alsobe
        resources,andeducation.                         incorporated whereappropriate.

15(a)   Theprojectcomponent   forindigenous peoples'    MIostof theProtected  Areashavepopulations withinandaroundthemliving
        development shouldincludealegalframework:the underrightsthathavenotgenerallybeenrecorded.AnnexI of theSAR
        legalstatusof thegroupscoveredbytheOD           (BiodiversityConservation  StrategyandLegislationinIndia)outlinesthestatus
        shouldbeincludedintheplan.Theabilityof such     of legislation.Theimpactof theWildlife(Protection)Act 1972,whichisthe
        groupstogainaccess  toandusethelegalsystemto unifiednationalactthatenablesthemanagement       of suchareasasNationalParks
        defendtheirrightsshouldbeassessed.  Particular  andsanctuaries,  onindigenous peopleresidentinProtectedAreascoveredby
        attentionshouldbegivento:rightsto uscand        theprojectwasanalysed    extensively(SARAnnex1).Conflictresolution
        developthelandstheyoccupy,rightstobe            mechanisms   ainedatenablingindigenous   peopletodefendtlheirrightsthrougli
        protectedagainstillegalintruders,rightsto have  theinvolvement   of localNGOshavebeendevisedundertheprojectandmade
        accesstonaturalresources (forests,wildlifeand   availabletotheminadditiontotheexistinglegalsyslemforconilictresolution
        water)vitaltotheirsubsistence andreproduction. in India(SAR,Annex7).

15(b)   Baselinedatashouldinclude:                      Indicativebaselinedatahasbeencollected(seeAnnex6 forbackground
        accurate,
                up-to-date mapsandaerialphotographs informationonselected       projectsites,andAnnex18of theSARwhichprovides
        of theareaof projectinfluenceandtheareas        aSocialAssessment)    moresuchdatafortheeffectivedevelopment   of micro-

Ecodevelopment - Request for Inspection - provisions of O.D. 4.20                                                                  8




        inhabitedbyindigenouspeoples;                   plans,andforstrengthenedProtected  AreaManagementwill beobtainedduring
        analysisof thesocialstructureandincomesources iipleinentation.TheTORsfor Mappingof thePA(includingsatelliteinaging)
        of thepopulation;                               areoutlinedinAnnex7 of theSAR.Analysisof thesocialstructureandincome
        inventoriesof theresourcesthaiindigenouspeople sourcesof theaffectedpopulationswillbeobtainedtliroughitheparticipatory
        useandtcchnicaldataontheirproductionsystems; appraisalprocessescentraltovillagemicroplannilig(SeeAnnex8of tlleSAR).
        andtherelationshipof indigenouspeoplesto othier Inventoriesof resourcesandproductionsystemswill besystematically
        localandnationalgroups.                         monitoredduringthecourseof implementation(SeeAnnex10of theSAR).
        It isparticularlyimportantthatbaseliiestudies   Drafttemisof referenceforthedevelopmentof participatorymicroplanning
        capturethefull rangeof productionandmarketing activities,socialassessmentsareprovidedinAnnexI I of theSAR.Annex20
        activitiesinwhichindigenouspeopleareengaged. addressesvoluntaryrelocationandpeoplelivingintheprotectedareas.
        Sitevisitsbyqualifiedsocialandtechnicalexpers   Thefull rangeof productionandmarketingactivitieswasadequatelyidentified
        shouldverifyandupdatesecondarysources.          inthethreestudiespriorto appraisal.
                                                        Fewsecondarysourceswereavailablebutsitevisitswereundertakenby
                                                        qualifiedNGOsduringthecourseof thestudies,andbyqualifiedsocialand
                                                        lechinicalBankstaffonpreparationandsupervisionimissions.

15(c)   Whenlocallegislationneedsstrengthening,the    *Managementearlyrecognizedtheissuesof landrightsandtenurialsecurity.
        Bankshouldoffertoadviseandassisttheborrower Thisisacomplicatedmatter,andonesubjecttoconsiderablecontroversy.
        inestablishinglegalrecognitionof thecustomary   PeoplewhohavebeenlivingwithinaNationalParkforgenerationshave
        ortraditionallandtenuresystemsof indigenous     sufferedfromerosionof theirrightsbothbecauseof legislation(theWildlife
        peoples.Thesestepsshouldbetakenbeforethe        (Protection)Act 1972,andbecauseofencroachmentsintothesemarginalareas.
        initiationofotherplanningstepsthatmaybe         Managemientdecidedtoproceedwiththisprojectafteragreementthatthere
        contingentonrecognizedlandtitles.               wouldbenofurthererosionof tribalrights,noinvoluntaryresettlementandthat
                                                        thepragmaticapproachadoptedbytheIndianGovernmenttopeopleresidingin
                                                        theseareaswouldcontinue.(Variouscovenantswerewvritten intotheproject
                                                        agreementto protecttheinterestsof theindigenous
                                                                                                      peopleandensure
                                                        compliancewith0 Ds4.20and4.30.)
                                                        Forfunrherdetailsonthewaysinwhichissuesof landtenureandtribalrights
                                                        weredealtvith duringprojectpreparationsee- Annex7 - ImprovedPA
                                                        .Maniagemiient
                                                                    - #slI1,16,19(f), Annex18- SocialAssessment- #sl2,31,43-45,
                                                        Annex20- Peoplein ProtectedAreasandVoluniaryRelocation
15(d)   Mlechanismsshouldbedevisedandauaintainiedfor    Attemptshavcbeenmadetoensurethatindigenouspeoplearecentrally
        participationbyindigenous  peopleindecision     involvedin decisionmakingatall stagesinprojectpreparationandduring
        makingthroughoutprojectplanning,                implementationtodate.Thisincludescentralinvolvementin themicroplanning
        implementationandevaluation.                    processesand throughrepresentationin decisionsaboutPA Management.(See

Ecodevelopment - Request for Inspection - provisions of O.D. 4.20                                                                      9




                                                       Annex 7 - Improved PA Management - Hs5, 8 (f), Annex 8 - Village Eco-
                                                       development,Annex10-ImpactMonitoringand Research-        Ms20(d),22 (e))


15(e)   Technicalproposalsshouidproceedfromon-site     Nomajorinfrastructureinvestmentisproposed.Mosttechnicalinvestment
        researchby qualifiedprofessionalsacceptableto  optionswill beat themicrolevel.
        theBank.                                       Investmentsareplannedto followmicroplanning,to ensurelocalpreferences
        Detaileddescriptionsshouldbepreparedand        andtheincorporationof localknowledge   aboutappropriateness.
        appraisedforsuchproposedservicesas education,  For funherdetailssee- Annex8 - VillageEcodevelopment,AnnexII      - TORs
        training,health,creditand legalassistance.     on socialassessment,micro-planningandfeasibilityandAnnex18-      Social
        Technicaldescriptionsshouldbeincludedforthe    Assessment- Hs25 and26,Tables6 & 8.
        plannedinvestmentsinproductiveinfrastructure.
        Plansthatdrawon IndigenousKnowledgeare
        oftenmoresuccessfulthanthoseintroducing
        entirelynewprinciplesandinstitutions.

15.(f)  Assessingthetrackrecord,capabilitiesandneeds   Capabilitiesandtrainingneedsof GOKwereassessedduringproject
        ofgovernmentinstitutionsisa fundamental      . preparationandspecifictrainingplansareenvisagedas partof project
        requirement.Organizationalissuesthatneedtobe   implementation.Adequacyof staffingwill bemonitoredduringproject
        addressed:                                     implementationandany needstoadjustwill bereviewedwithGOK.The         project
        availabilityof fundsforinvestmentsandfield     providesforadequatefunding.
        operations                                     A nutiiberofquitecapableNGOshaveinteractedwithgovernmentinstitutions
        adequacyof experiencedprofessionalstaff        durin, thepreparationof theproject,andtheearlyphasesof implemenitation.
        abilityof indigenouspeoples'ownorganizations,  1'heprojectaimsto increasesuchinteraction.The mainobjectiveoftheproject
        localadministrationauthorities,and localNGOsto isto increasethe frequencyof interactionandtoimproveitsquality.
        interactwithspecializedgovernmentinstitutions  Theabilityof theexecutingagency(the forestDepartment)tomobilizeother
        abilityof theexecutingagencyto mobilizeother   agencieshasnot beendeemedcrucialforpurposesof thisprojectbecauseits
        agenciesinvolvedintheplan's implementation     designdoesnot entaila significantneedforsuchinteraction.
        adequacyof fieldpresence                       The ForestryDepartmenthasa substantialfieldpresence.

                                                        'urtherinforimationi
                                                                           isto befoundinAnnex2 - CurrentOrganizational
                                                       StructureandCapacity,Annex7 - ImprovedP'AManagement-#sI2,         23-28,
                                                       Annex 8 - Village Ecodevelopment - U42,Annex   18 - Social Assessment Hs
                                                                                                                            -

                                                       31-32

Ecodevelopment - Request for Inspection - provisions of O.D. 4.20                                                                      10




IS(g)   Components  shouldincludeanimplementation      Eachmicroplanwillhaveadetailedscheduleforpreparation      and
        schedulewithbenchmarks   bywhichprogress can   impilcmeniation, togetherwithasetof benchmarks   forevaluatingprogress.
        bemeasured atappropriate intervals.            Annex16- ProjectPerformance     Review& Implementation   Schedule  - provides
        Pilotprograms areoftenneeded toprovide         detailsof proposed  monitoringindicalorsandprocedures.
        planninginfomiationforphasingtheproject
        component forindigenous peoples withthemain
        investment.

        Theplanshouldpursuethelong-lemisustainability
        of projectactivitiessubsequent
                                    tothecompletion
        of disbursement                                Theparticipatoryprocesses  areintendedtobuildsuchsustainability.

15(h)   Independentmonitoringcapacities areusually     Themonitoringof progress,   performanceandimpactof ecodevelopment
        neededwhentheinstitutions responisible
                                             for       activitiesassociated withvillageecodevelopment  will beundertaken in
        indigenouspopulations haveweakmanagement       collaborationwithcontracted  organizationis
                                                                                                andEcodevelopinent    Comlimittees
        histories.                                     (SeeAnnex8p.128).Annex10of theSARspellsouttheapproach           to be
        Monitoringbyrepresentatives of indigenous .     adopted  forimpactmonitoringandresearch,  andAnnex16providesdetailed
        peoples'ownorganizations canbeanefficientway guidelinesforProjectPerformance     ReviewandImplementation,    wiltl adetailed
        forprojectmanagement   toabsorbilteperspectives listof indicators.
                                                                         At thePAleveltliereareopportunities fordeveloping
        of indigenousbeneficiaries
                                 andisencouraged by     stakeholder representation.
        theBank.
        Monitorinigunitsshouldbestaffedbyexperienced Inadditionto therecruitment    of anexperienced SocialScientist
                                                                                                                   ateachof tile
        socialscienceprofessionals.                    projectsites,asamemberof eachprojectteam(SeeAnnex8p.14 fortemisof
                                                                                                                      0

        Reportingfornalsandschedules   appropriate
                                                tothe reference),  theprojectcoordinating committees atthestatelevelwill also
        project'sneedsshouldbeestablished.             containsocialscienceprofessionals. Socialscienceprofessionals will alsobe
        Monitoringandevaluation  reportsshouldbe        members   of research
                                                                            teamsassociated withseveralof theproposed
        reviewedjointlybytheseniormanagement   of the   consultancies.
        implementing agencyandbytheBank.                Detailedreportingformatshavebeenestablished   andarebeginning  to beused..
        Theevaluation reportsshouildbemadeavailableto Arrangements     forsemi-annual reviewsbyseniormanagement   havebeenbuilt
        thepublic.                                      intoprojectsupervision.TheBankwill fulfill itsroleduringsupervision
                                                        missions. Currentsupervision isorganizedsothatstaffcanvisitdifferentsitesto
                                                        learnfromeachother.

                                                        Substantial effortisbeingmade,throughtheinvolvement   of awidevarietyof
                                                        stakelholdersto ensure
                                                                             thatprojectdocumentation  isavailableto thepublic.

Ecodevelopment - Request for Inspection - prov'isionsof O.D. 4.20                                                                      11



                                                        Duringprojectimplementation,majorBanksupervisionreportswill bemade
                                                        publicto theextentnotopposedbyGovernment.Mechanismnito ensurethe
                                                        widedissemination of lessonsfromimplementationarebuiltintothe
                                                        participatorynatureof hlieimplemenitationiprocess,includinginvolvemlielitof
                                                        memilbersof civilsocietyonprojectreviewcommittees.

15(i)    Theplanshouldincludedetailedcostestimatesfor   Detailedcostestimatesareintegralpartsof theindividualmicroplans.
          plannedactivitiesandinvestments.              Manyfinalinvestmentsareamatterforresolutionandchoiceatthevillagelevel
          Theinvestmentsshouldbebrokendownintounit      anddetailedcostestimatesbyprojectyearwill beprovided.
          costsbyprojectyearandlinkedtoafinancing       Norevolvingcreditfundsareproposed,buttrainingof Ecodevelopment
          plan.                                         Committeemembersin basicaccountingmethodsandproceduresnecessaryfor
          Suchprogramsasrevolvingcreditfundsthat        thesuccessfuloperationoftheinvestmentfundswill begiven.
          provideindigenouspeoplewithinvestmentpools    TheBankandGEF'sshareis72%
          shouldindicatetheiraccountingproceduresand
          mecihanismsforfinancialtransferand
         replenishment.
          It isusuallyhelpfulto haveashighashareas
          possibleof directfinancialparticipationbythe
          Bankinprojectcomponentsdealingwith
          indigenouspeoples.
Identification


16        Duringprojectidentification,theborrowershould TheGovernmentof Kartnatakawasinformedandiswellawareof theBank's
          beinformedof theBank'spolicyforindigenous     policyfor indigenouspeoples.Theprovisionsof andtherationalefortheO.D.
          peoples.                                      havebeencommunicatedatall availableopportunities.
          Theapproximatenumberof potentiallyaffected    Theapproximatenumbersof potentiallyaffectedpeopleandtheirlocationsvere
          peopleandtheirlocationshouldbedetenminedand determinedandshownonmapsof theprojectarea.Seethemapsattheendof
          shownonmapsof theprojectarea.                  theSAR.
          Tlieleal stattisof anyaffectedgroupsshouldbe   Thlele,alstatusofaffectedgroupswasdiscussedatlengthduringproject
          discussed.                                     preparation.Internal-Bankdiscussionsfocusedonapragmatic    andevolvingway
          TMsshouldascenaintherelevantgovenmilent        of overcominigthepotentialconiflictbetweenBankpolicyandtheborrower's
          agencies,andtheirpolicies,procedures,programs, laws.
          andplansforindigenouspeoplesaffectedbythe
          proposedproject.

Ecodevelopment- Request for Inspection - prov1isions of O.D. 4.20                                                                  12




        TMvisshouldalsoinitiateanthropologicalstudies Anthropologicalstudiesto identifylocalneedsandpreferencesareintegralto
        necessarytoidentifylocalneedsandprefercnces. projectimplenientation.
        This,inconsultationwiththeRegional
        EnvironmentDepartment(RED),shouldsignal       Theseissuesweresignaledfromtheverybeginningof thepreparation    process
        indigenouspeoplesissuesandtheoverallproject
        strategyintheIEPS.

        Preparation

17      If it isagreedintheIEPSmeetingthatspecial     Agreement wasreachedthattheindigenouspeoples'developmentplanwould
        actionisneeded,theindigenouspeoples           beanintegralpartof projectpreparationandimplementation.SpecialisttenTnsof
        developmentplanorprojectcomponientshotildbe   referenceforavarietyof activitieswhichwvouldaddress,interalia,theinterests
        developedduringprojectpreparation.            andconcemnsof tribalsduringthecourseof theproject,havebeengiveninthe
        AsnecessarytheBankshouldassisttheborrower     SARandaccompanyAnnexes7,8,9, l,         11.
        inpreparing TORsandshouldprovidespecialized XEarlyinvolvementof Anthropologists  andNGOswassecured     andwill continue
        technicalassistance.                          throughiouttheproject.Thiswill assistinthedevelopmentof theparticipatory
        Earlyinvolvementof anthropologistsandlocal    approachwhichiscentraltoprojectdesign.
        NGOswithexpertise   inmattersrelatedto
        indigenous peoplesisa usefulwayto identify    Managenmentearlyrecognized  theissuesof landrightsandtenurialsecurity.
        mechanismsforeffectiveparticipationandlocal   Thisisaconmplicatedmatter,andonesubjectloconsiderablecontroversy.
        developmentopportunities.                     Peoplewhohavebeenliving vithinaNationalParkforgenerationshave
                                                      sufferedfromerosionof theirrightsbothbecause of legislation(theWildlife
        Inprojectswhichinvolvelandrightsof indigenous (Protection)Act 1972,andbecauseof encroachmentsintothesemarginalareas.
        peoples,theBankshouldworkwiththeborrower      Managementdecidedto proceedwviththisprojectafteragreementthatthere
        toclarifythestepsneededforputtinglandtenure   wouldbenofurthererosionof tribalrights,noinvoluntaryresettlementandthat
        onaregularfootingasearlyaspossible,sinceland thepragnmaticapproachadopted   bytheIndianGovernmenttopeopleresidingin
        disputesfrequentlyleadtodelaysinexecuLting    thesearcaswouldcontinue.(Variouscovenants  werewrillenintotheproject
        measLiresthalarecontingeent
                                  onproperlandtitles. agreement toprotecttheinterestsof theindigenouspeopleandensure
                                                      compliancewvih0 Ds4.20and4.30.)
                                                      Forfurtherdetailsonthewaysin whichissuesof landtenureandtribalrights
                                                      weredealtwithduringprojectpreparationsee- Annex7 - ImprovedPA
                                                      Management- #sl1, 16,19(f), Annex 18- SocialAssessment- Msl2,31,43-45,
                                                      Annex20- PeopleinProtectedAreasandVoluntaryRelocation

Ecodevelopnient- Request for Inspection - provisions of O.D. 4.20                                                                        13




        Appraisal

18      Theplan forthedevelopment    componentfor        AnIndicativePlanwasdeveloped     and submitted.Afterextensiveintemal
        indigenouspeoplesshouldbesubmiiiedtothe          discussion,thiswasconsideredadequate,giventhatmicro-developmentplans
        Bankalongwithtiheproject'soverallfeasibility     are iniendedtobe formulated,reviewedandcarriedout duringthe
        repon,priortoprojectappraisal.                   implementationstage.Therisksassociatedwiththeimplementationof      the
        Appraisalshouldassesstheadequacyof theplan,      projectwereearlyrecognizedby all.Managementfeltjustifiedinproceeding
        thesuitabilityof thepoliciesandlegalframeworks, basedon theinnovativeand participatorynatureof   thedesign,thesafeguard
        thecapacitiesoftheagencieschargedwith            agreementsreachedwiththegovernment,andtheimportanceof interventionsto
        implementingtheplan,andtheadequacyof the         stemenvironmentaldegradation,conservebiodiversityandsupportthe
        allocatedtechnical,financial,andsocialresources. developmentof moresustainablelivelihoodstrategiesof  poormarginal
        Appraisalteamsshouldbesatisfiedthatindigenous populations.
        peoplehavepanicipatedmeaningfullyinthe
        developmentof theplan.                           Tlheappraisalleamwassatisfiedthatindigenouspeoplehad panicipated
        It ispanicularlyimponanittoappraiseproposalsfor meaningfullyinthedevelopmentof theindicativeplan.
        regularizinglandaccessanduse.
                                                        .Seeresponsetoparagraph17givenabove.
        Impiemcentationi anidSupervision


19      Supervisionplanningshouldmakeprovisionsfor       Arrangemiientsforthe inclusionof appropriateprofessionalskillsinBank
        includingtheappropriateanthropological,legal,    supervisionmissionshasbeenmade.
        andtechnicalskillsinBanksupervisionmissions      SitevisitsbyTMsandby specialistshavebeencentralto supervisionmissions
        duringprojectimplementation.                     carriedoutso far.
        SitevisitsbyTMsandspecialistsareessential.       Themid-termevaluationwilltakeplacein 1999.
        Mid-termandfinalevaluationsshouldassess
        progressandrecommendcorrectiveactionswhen
        necessary.

        Documentationl


20      The borrow-er'scommitmnitsforimplementingtIic TIheborrower'sandstateimplemenitinig    agencies'commitmentisreflectedinthe
        indigenouspeoplesdevelopmentplansshouldbe        legalagreementswhichhavebeensignedby thegovernmentof Indiaandthe
        reflectedintheloandocuments.                     panicipatingStates.
        LegalprovisionsshouldprovideBankstaffwitih       Theseprovideclearbenchmarksfor monitoringcomplianceandperformance.
        clearbenchimarks  thatcan bemonitoredduring      TheSARgivesdetailsof theprovisionsmadefor implementinga        participatory

Ecodevelopment- RequestforInspection- provisionsof O.D.4.20                                                       14



       supervision.                              strategyforEcodevelopment
                                                                         andilheenhanced involvementof local
       TheStaffAppraisalReportand thehlemorandum communitiesintheconservationandprotectionof threatenedareasof
       andRecommendationof thePresidentshould!   biodiversity.
       summarizetheplanor projectprovisions.

                                                                  APPENDIX3
                                   INDIA


                 ECODEVELOPMENT                PROJECT
             (Cr.No. 2916-IN; GEF TFG No.TF028479-IN)

           MANAGEMENTRESPONSE TO INSPECTIONPANEL

                              Dates of Main Steps



1.  Exploratorymission                           December,1993
2.  GOI's submissionof an IndicativePlan         June,1994
3.  Pre-Appraisal                                October18-November11,1994
4.  PPFFacilityAdvanceagreedby the Bank          January,1995
5.  FinalExecutiveProjectSummary                 April,1995
6.  Appraisal                                    May9 -June 2, 1995
7.  NegotiationsConcluded                        July 19,1996
8.  BoardApproval                                September5, 1996
9.  LegalAgreementsSigned                        September30, 1996
10. ProjectEffectiveDate                         December27, 1996
11. FirstSupervision                             February6-26,1997
12. Second Supervision                           April 21 - May 16, 1997
13. Third Supervision                            October23 November21, 1997

The World Bank                                          1818 H Street N.W.                 (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONALBANKFORRECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT      Washington. D.C. 20433            Cable Address: INTBAFRAO
INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION                     U.S.A.                            Cable Address: INOEVAS



                                                                                         APPENDIX 4



                                                                               June 18, 1996




       V.S. Roy David, Secretary
       CORD
       Post Box 23
       119/1 4th Block, Kushalnagar
       Kodagu District. Kamataka
       India



       Dear Mr. V.S. Rov David


                              Re: INDIA - Proposed Ecodevelopment Projeci

               Thank you for your letter which I received June 5.       1996.We have mailed copies
       of the Project Information Document plus attachment         to you and theother four
       organization listed below per your request. In view of their       interest. I am also copying
       this letter to these organizations. as well as to officials of the Karnatak-aForest
       Department. and the Ministry of Environment and Forestry          as listedbelow.

               In your first paragraph. you rcter to earlier correspondencc. To the       best of my
       knowledge. the onlv corrcspondencc we havc received was           a lettcrdated December 12.
       1994.from DEED and Fedina Vikasa: which we responded to ina               letter dated December
       21. 1994.

               I believc that the project objectives and design address your concems on social
       issues. The objective of the Ecodevelopment Project is to        conserve biodiversity inseven
      globally significant protected areas bv increasing the collaboration between         localpeople
      and govemment managers. The project design is not          a blue print of tangible investments;
      rather it is a set of agreed processes and criteria that  would be used for the project
      duration. A major element of the project design is the extensive        consultationand
      participatory decision making involving local people. with a particular focuson            forest
      dependent and disadvantaged communities. The project           processes and criteria incorporate
      Bank directives that you have highlighted such as protection        of customaryrights of
      indigenous people. informed participation. and      mitigation plans foradverse impacts.

               Let me also takeethis opportunity to clarify the role of the    indicativeplan. The
      indicative planning during project preparation reflected       only a sample of views: it was
      never intended to be comprehensive in scope. nor to       incorporate the views of all potential



                                     RCA248423.Li WUI64145LUFAX(202)4774391

                                              -2-                              June 18.1996



project participants. During project preparation it helped to identify (a) the nature of
typical village ecodevelopment investments and (b) the participatory planning processes
to be used to identify reciprocal commitments and investments. During the Bank
preappraisal and appraisal inissions, many improvements to the explicit criteria and the
planning processes were incorporated into the project design. and the indicativeplans
have never been regarded as approved microplans or approved investment proposals.
Microplans that meet the project design specifications would be developed during project
implementation.

        Although a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) Advance is financing some initial
start-up activities, the Bank has not yet negotiated the GEF grant and IDA credit
agreements for the larger project. The start-up activities include the establishmnentof
contractual partnerships with NGOs. social scientists. and others. The PPF is also
supporting the development of microplans that would meet project design criteria and
process guidelines. Microplanning during the PPF would only involve a limited number
of communities -- participatory planning would also take place throughout the project
period. To the best of our knowledge. the PPF supported microplanning in and around
Nagarhole has not yet begun.

        We recognize that only a few of the staff and local people around protected areas
are familiar with the project design. Now that you have a complete set of project
documents. we would appreciate your helping to disseminate informationon the project
objectives and design. We believe that your links with local communities would help you
to share this information in a language and format that could be readily understood by
local people.

        As vou have noted. the project documents acknowledge that during the past
twentv year. govcrnment s interactions with local people in and around protectedareas
has sometimes been confrontational. and that the establishment of protected areas has
sometimes had negative impacts on tribal groups. Government officials andothers have
recognized the problems with this past approach and therefore proposed the
Ecodevelopment Project. The transformation to a more participatorv, less confrontational
approach. even with the assistance of contractual partners. however. is likelyto be
gradual. Constructive involvement of concemed stakeholders like yourselveswould assist
this transformation process.

        According to the proposed Bank/GEF project design. the forestdepartments
would not cause or undertake involuntary resettlement ot'people in protected areas, and
would ensure that any proposals for voluntary rcsettlement would be preparedand
implemented in accordance with critcria agreed with the Bank and after prior approval by
the Bank. The project documents that we have sent you acknowledge the issues involving
the legal setting of the Wildlife Act. and the pragmatic approach to resident communities
that the Government has used in recent years. Based on assurances that state governments
have already provided, the Bank understands that since the November 1994preappraisal,
the state governments have not acquired land from current residents within the protected

                                              -3-                            June 18, 1996



 areas, provided compensation to them, built housing for them, or otherwise carried out
 activities that could be consider implementation of a resettlementplan that has not been
 reviewed and approved by the Bank. The Bank decision to exclude the Similipal Tiger
 Reserve in Orissa from the project demonstrated the importance that the Bank attaches to
these assurances. Bank support for including particular protectedareas in the project will
be premised on assurances in the project legal agreements (whichwill be negotiated prior
to-project approval) that the states would comply with projectguidelines on relocation.

         Anita Cheria recently participated in an NGO consultation on the project held in
New Delhi on June 1. Due to other work responsibilities we will not be able to finalize a
summary of those proceedings until later this month. but in the meantime,I hope that you
have the opportunity learn from Anita about this consultation, and about the earlier
dialogue she had with Bank staff during her visit to Washington.

                                          Sincerely,




                                         Jessica Mott
                               Sr. Natural Resource Economist
                               Agriculture and Water Division
                                    Country Department II
                                          South Asia


cc:
DEED. Hunsur NlvsoreDistrict. Karnataka. India 571234
Vikasa. H.D. Kote. iMlvsoreDistrict. Karnataka. India 571105
ICDSS/TJAC Near Al Amin Colloe. KfalyaGate Extension. .:Iarvadi.Kamataka. India
         56312
FEVORD-K. 44 New Bamboo Bazaar Road. Cantonment. Bancalore. Kamartak.India.
         560 051


cc with incoming:
.Mr.P.K. Thousan. Forest Secretary. Sachivalaya. Bangalore.Kamataka
M-tr.Ja 'it Lamba. CCF (Wildlife). Aranya Bhavan. MAlleshwaram.Banzalore.
         Kamataka
MNfr.B.U. Chengappa, CF (Wildlife) Mysore, Karnataka.
IvMr.N. R. Krishnan. Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Forestrv. Parvavarn
         Bhawan, C.G.O. Complex Lodi Road, New Delhli110003
Mr. S.C. Dey, Additional Inspector General of Forests, Mvinistryof Environment and
        Forestry, Parvavarn Bhawan, C.G.O. Complex Lodi Road,New Delhi 110003
Mr. Arin Ghosh, Director, Project Tiger Office, Annexe No. 5, BikanerHouse. Shajahan
        Road, New Delhi 110011

                                    -4-                        June 18. 1996


bccwithincoming:Mitchell.Vergin.Barghouti.Marsden.Khan.AsiaFiles

JMott

