Page  1
 
RCA 248423. 
\1a
 WUI 64145 
\1a
 FAX (202) 522-0916
 
The World Bank Inspection Panel 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 458-5200 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. Cable 
Address: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
IPN REQUEST RQ00/1 
 
         December 
6, 
2000 
 
NOTICE OF REGISTRATION 
 
 
Re: Second Request for Inspection
 
       India: Ecodevelopment Project (Credit Number 2916-IN) 
      (GEF Trust Fund Grant Number TF028479 IN) 
 
       
 
 
 
The Inspection Panel (the “Panel”) on November 27, 2000 received a Request for 
Inspection (the “Second Request”) related to the above-referenced project filed on behalf 
of the tribal people (adivasi people) living in the area known as Rajiv Gandhi National 
Park (Nagarahole) in the sate of Karnataka (the “Requesters”).  The Second Request is 
signed by several tribal peoples’ organizations and NGOs, as well as, by a representative 
of the Nagarahole Budakattu Janara Hakkusthapana Samithy Organization (NBJHS)
1
 
 
The Requesters claim that their rights and interests have been and will be 
adversely affected by acts and omissions of the International Development Association 
(“IDA”) in the design and implementation of the project.   
 
The Request claims that there are serious threats to the rights and security of the 
majority of indigenous peoples living within the limits of the Park (i.e. the project area).  
They claim that Management failed to address the negative findings of the Inspection 
Panel, despite the Board’s directive to Management to work with the State and Federal 
Government in consultation with the project beneficiaries to address the project’s flaws.  
 
The Requesters claim that they are presently being harmed and are likely to be 
continue being harmed as a result of IDA’s failure to follow its Safeguard policies set 
forth in OD 4.20 Indigenous Peoples.   The actions described by the Requesters may also 
constitute violation of OD 4.30 Involuntary Resettlement and OP/BP 13.05 Project 
Supervision. 
 
In accordance with paragraph 18 of the Panel’s 
Operating Procedures
, I am 
notifying you that I have on December 6, 2000, which is also the date of the dispatch of 
this notice, registered the Request in the Inspection Panel Register.  Please be advised 
that  “registration” is an administrative procedure established by the Panel that in no way 
implies any judgement whatsoever concerning the eligibility of the Request. 
 
All communications to the Requesters in connection with the Request will be sent 
to the addresses below, unless another address is indicated to the Panel. 
                                                          
 
1
  The same organization that submitted the first Request.  See INSP/R 99-4 Inspection Panel Report and Recommendation dated May
 
27, 1999. 
Page  2
Notice of Registration 
-2- 
December 6, 2000 
 
 
 
 
 
In accordance with paragraph 18 of the Resolution and paragraphs 2 and 8 of the 
1999 Clarifications to the Resolution that established the Inspection Panel (the “1999 
Clarifications”)
2
,  Bank Management has been notified that it must provide the Panel, no 
later than January 8, 2000, with written evidence that it has complied, or intends to 
comply with the Bank’s relevant policies and procedures in relation to the above-
referenced loan.  The subject matter that Management must deal with in a response to the 
Request is set out in paragraph 3 and 4 of the 1999 Clarifications. 
 
 
After receiving Management’s response, the Panel will, as provided by paragraph 
19 of the Resolution, “determine whether the Request meets the eligibility criteria set out 
in paragraph 12 to 14 and shall make a recommendation to the Executive Directors as to 
whether the matter should be investigated”. 
 
 
The Request has been assigned IPN Request Number RQ00/1. 
 
 
 Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
 Jim 
MacNeill 
 
          Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
To: P.K. 
Ramu 
 Convenor 
 
Nagarahole Budakattu Janara Hakku Staphana Samithi 
c/o DEED, Chickkahunsur 
H.D. Kote Road, Mysore District 
Karnataka, India 
 
 J. 
P. 
Raju 
 Convenor 
 
Karnataka Rajya Moolanivasi Nivasike Vedike 
 
Ranga Samudra Post 
 
Kodagu District, Karnataka 
                                                          
 
2
 The 1999 Clarifications are contained in the “Conclusions of the Board’s Second Review of the Inspection Panel” dated April 20
, 
1999. 
Page  3
Notice of Registration 
-3- 
December 6, 2000 
 
 
 
To: 
J. K. Babu 
 Convenor 
 
Budakattu Krishikara Sangha, Kodagu District, Karnataka 
 
V.S. Roy David 
Director 
Coorg Organization for Rural Development (CORD) 
Kodagu, Karnataka 
 
S. Sreekant 
Director 
DEED 
H.D. Kote Road, Hunsur 
Mysore District 
Karnataka 
 
The Director 
FEDINA-VIKASA 
c/o Nanjundaiah, Coordinator 
H.D. Kote Road  
Mysore District 
Karnataka 
 
 
To: 
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn 
 President 
 
International Development Association 
 Room 
MC12-1216 
 
 
 
[by hand against confirmation] 
 
 
cc: 
The Executive Directors and Alternatives 
 
International Development Association 
 
