                                    Documentof
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No.: 39930




             PROJECT PERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT

                                       INDIA

                        ECODEVELOPMENTPROJECT
                                (CREDIT 2916-IN)


                                   June 26,2007




Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation Division
Independent Evaluation Group

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
Currency Unit =Indian Rupees (INR)

2003 (Feb)                US$l.oo                 Rs.45.5
2006 (Feb)                US$l.oo                 Rs.44.0


Abbreviations and Acronyms

ADB              AsianDevelopmentBank
CAS              CountryAssistance Strategy (CAS)
CBD              ConventiononBiologicalDiversity
CDF              communitydevelopment fund
CDF              CommunityDevelopmentFunds
EDC              EcodevelopmentCommittee
FREEP            ForestryResearchandEducationProject
GO               government orders
GO1              Government ofIndia
ICR              ImplementationCompletionReport
IEDP             IndiaEcodevelopmentProject
IEG              IndependentEvaluationGroup
IEGWB            IndependentEvaluationGroup (WorldBank)
JFM              Joint ForestManagement
MOEF             MinistryofEnvironmentandForests
MPFP             MadhyaPradeshForestryProject
MTR              Mid-TermReview
PA               protectedareas
PF               PeriyarFoundation
PPAR             ProjectPerformanceAssessment Report
PTO              ProjectTiger Office
PTR              PeriyarTiger Reserve
RTR              RanthamboreTiger Reserve
SHG              Self-Help Groups

FiscalYear

Government:               April 1-March31




Director-General, Evaluation                             : Mr.VinodThomas
Director, Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)      : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector, Thematic, and Global EvaluationDivision : Mr.AlainBarbu
Task Manager                                             : Mr.JohnRedwood

                                                              1



 IEGWBMission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellence and independence in evaluation.


About this Report
      The IndependentEvaluationGroup assesses the programsand activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first,to ensure the integrityof the Bank'sself-evaluationprocessand to verifythat the Bank's work is producingthe
expected results, and second, to helpdevelopimproved directions, policies, and proceduresthroughthe
disseminationof lessonsdrawnfrom experience.As part of this work, IEGWBannuallyassesses about 25 percent of
the Bank's lendingoperations. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment, preferenceis given to thosethat are
innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for which
ExecutiveDirectors or Bank managementhave requestedassessments; andthose that are likelyto generate
importantlessons.The projects,topics, and analytical approachesselected for assessment support larger evaluation
studies.
      A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by IEGWB. To prepare
PPARs, IEGWBstaff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases
visit the borrowingcountry for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
IEGWB studies.
      Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and IEGWB managementapproval. Once cleared internally,
the PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is
then sent to the borrowerfor review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the
Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the
public.

About the IEGWB RatingSystem
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by IEGWB are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. IEGWB evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following
is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the IEGWB
website: http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.htm1).
      Relevanceof Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expectedto achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible.This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possibleratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnstitutionalDevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements andlor (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. InstitutionalDevelopment Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possibleratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
      BankPerformance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possibleratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
      BorrowerPerformance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                      ...
                                                                      111



Contents

PrincipalRatings          ................................................................................................................      v

Key StaffResponsible               ........................................................................................................     v

Preface  ..............................................................................................................................         ..
                                                                                                                                              vi1

Summary     ...........................................................................................................................        ix

1 Background
 .                      ..................................................................................................................      1

2.  ProjectDesignandImplementation                                 ...........................................................................  1

                    Objectives. Components and ImplementationArrangements .....................                                                 1
                   ProjectDesign..............................................................................................                  3
                   Project Implementation................................................................................                       4
3 EvaluationFindings
 .                                    .....................................................................................................     5
                   Relevance o f objectives ...............................................................................                     5
                   Efficacy and Efficiency................................................................................                      6
4 Ratings
 .             ........................................................................................................................       11

                   Outcome.....................................................................................................                11
                    Sustainability.,............................................................................................
                                     . .                                                                                                       12
                   InstitutionalDevelopment Impact..............................................................                               12
                   Monitoring andEvaluation: Design, Implementationand Utilization.......12
                   Bank Performance......................................................................................                      13
                   Borrower Performance...............................................................................                         13
5 LessonsLearned
 .                             .........................................................................................................      14

Annex A BasicDataSheet
           .                                ..............................................................................................    17

Annex B IndiaReserveProfiles
           .                                          ....................................................................................    21




This reportwas preparedbyColinRees. Consultant. who assessedthe projectinApril 2006 Soon-Won
Pakprovidedadmimstrative support              .                                                                                 .


                                                   V



PrincipalRatings

                                  ICR*                         ES*                        PPAR
Outcome                        Satisfactory         Moderatelysatisfactory        Moderately satisfactory
Sustainability                   Likely                  Non-evaluable                     Likely
Institutional                  Substantial                 Substantial                  Substantial
Development Impact
Bank Performance               Satisfactory               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
Borrower                       Satisfactory               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
Performance

* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of
the Bank. The Evaluation Summary (ES) is an intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently
verify the findings of the ICR.


Key Staff Responsible

Project                         Task ManagedLeader             Division Chief/         Country Director
                                                               Sector Director
 Appraisal                            Jessica Mott           Shawki Barghouti            Heinz Vergin
 Completion                          K. Mackinnonl              Adolfo Brizzi          Michael F. Carter
                                      R. R. Mohan


                                            vii


 Preface


        This is the ProjectPerformance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the India
Ecodevelopment Project (IEDP). The project was financed through IDA Credit No. 2916
inthe amount ofUS$28.0 millionequivalent (19.5 millionSDR) anda GEFTrustFund
Grant (TF-28479) o fU S $20.0 million (13.9 million SDR) with contributions from
project beneficiaries (US$4.50 million) and state and central governments (US$ 14.42
million). The credit was approved on September 5, 1996, became effective on December
9,1996 and was closed onJune 30,2004, two years behindthe scheduled closing date of
June 30 2002. Restructuringtook place inJune 2002 with the total cancellation of US$
5.6 million from the credit andUS$2.2 million from the Grant. Theremaining credit was
96.4 percent disbursed.

       The findings o f this assessment are based on an Independent Evaluation Group
(IEG) missionto IndiainApril/May o f2006 andreviewofproject documents. The
missionmet inDelhiwith staff from the Government (GOI), NGOs andthe Asian
Development Bank and other donor agency staff. Site visits were paid to Ranthanbore
and Periyar Tiger Reserves (two o f the seven sites includedinthe IEDP)to meet with
Reserve staff, local NGOs and villagers, includingtribal people. This report draws
heavily upon the technicalreports and inputs o f team members inWashington D C and in
Delhiandgovernment staff, the donor community andNGOs inIndia.Key documentary
sources consulted include: (a) World Bankand other project files; (b) project-related
reporting and evaluation; and, (c) and conservation studies and evaluation reports
generated inIndia.

       This PPAR is also intended as an input into an on-going IEGevaluation o fthe
development effectiveness o f the World Bank's assistanceto the environment and to
biodiversity conservation at nationaland global levels.

       The IEGteam gratefully acknowledges all those who made time for interviews
and provided documents and information.

       Following standard IEGprocedures, copies o f the draft PPAR were sent to the
Borrowers (GOI, ICICI and IDBI) for comments, but nonewere received.


                                              ix


 Summary

        The overall aim o fthe IndiaEcodevelopment Project, approved in 1996, was to
conserve biological diversity inseven globally significant protectedareas (PAS)by
implementing an ecodevelopment strategy (prepared bythe GOI). The strategy embraced a
community-based approach encouraging durab1e partnerships betweenForest Department
staffandlocal communities for access to and responsible use o f forest resources. The main
project objectives were to: (i) improve the capacity of PA management to conserve
biodiversity, increase collaborationof localpeople inconservation efforts, and increase
opportunities for localparticipationinPA management activities and decisions; (ii)    reduce
negative impacts o f localpeople on biodiversity and o fPASon localpeople; (iii)   develop
more extensive support for ecodevelopment; (iv) ensure effective management o fthe project;
and, (v) preparefuture biodiversityprojects. Its components corresponded to these objectives
and comprised: (a) improvedPA management; (b) Village Ecodevelopment; (c) education
and awareness and project impact monitoring andresearch; (d) overall project management;
and (e) preparationo f future biodiversityprojects.

        The relevance ofproject objectives i s assessed as high as they were fully consistent
with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy and GO1priorities andsupportedthe global aim
o f conserving biodiversity inseven critical areas ina mega-diversity country.

        The project's efficacy is assessedas modest. The capacity ofPAmanagement was
improvedwith increased participation of local communities inconservation efforts and
management plans were produced for the seven PAS.However, some o fthese plans suffered
inquality as baseline data andresearchdidnot always addressneededplanningrequirements
andcorrective actions occurred late inthe planningprocess. Useo fRegionalPlanning
Committees established to promote conservation inthe wider landscape was also uneven.
The objective o fpreparingfuture biodiversity conservation projects was dropped.

        EfJiciency i s also assessed as modest. Participatorymonitoring recorded a reduced
dependence o f communities on P A resources and control o fpoaching and intrusionpressures
on PAShas resultedinhabitat regeneration and increased wildlife populations. Visible gains
were also made interms o f galvanizing local communities to form Ecodevelopment
Committees for conservation inand around PAS,some 580 EDCs beingformed involving
75,000 households. However, it appearsthat only one PA was able to abide substantively by
the micro-planningprocess andits provisions, while the lack o f competent professional
experience impaired rigorous assessmento fPA threats andthe selection o f funded activities
byEDCs and other groups. Equally, theproject time frame o ffive years pressuredthe micro-
planningcomponent andthe effectivebuildingo fpartnerships.A major benefitofthe project
was improvements to people-park relationships, and the project generated significant
awareness and support for conservation and ecodevelopment around the majority o fthe PAS.

        Based upon the evidence o f efJicacy and efJiciency, theproject's outcome i s rated
moderately satisfactory. Sustainability i s ratedlikely. The project achieved more efficient,
equitable and sustainable use o f its human, financial and naturalhiological resources by the
time it ended. An increased contribution by the GO1and sustained local contributions
underpinnedthe accomplishment o fproject objectives. This i s continuing at most o f the
seven sites andwould be further encouraged inthe proposed follow-on Biodiversity

Conservation andRural Livelihoods ImprovementProject, Conservation responsibilitiesare
now sharedwith local communities andthe long-term survival o fPAs appears more assured.
However, several challenges for the further development and sustainability o f project
activities remain, especially strengthening key institutional arrangements; improved
management planning, andbettertargeted site-specific micro planningby EDCs.

          Institutional development impact i s ratedsubstantial. Ina climate o f inexperience
andrisks regardingparticipationandtrust, limited implementationcapacity andquestionable
management support, the project introduced many innovations such as transparent
accounting and involvement o f local communities. The latter often meant painful negotiation
withstate and localagencies and communities. Manymanagement innovations arenow part
o f forest development operations at national and state levels andthe Project Tiger Office now
has a dedicated budget for ecodevelopment activities. Critical modifications were adopted
duringthe Mid-termReview (MTR) and subsequentBank Missions stepped the up the
quality and frequency o f supervision though this should have been done earlier.

     Overall, Bankperformance is rated satisfactory. More intensive supervisiono f
institutional capacity inthe early stages o fproject implementationshould have been
undertakenand earlier interventionswould have helpedfoster ownership andmanagement
planning and sustain the momentum o f the ecodevelopment approach. Borrower
performance was unsatisfactory duringthe early phases o fproject implementationbut is
rated satisfactory overall. The extensive scope and complex demands o fproject design and
dependency upon local institutions was a constraint early on, and only after concerted efforts
duringandafter the MTRdidall parties recognize the opportunityto chart anew approach to
biodiversity conservation through improved parWpeople relationships and strengthened
institutional arrangements to improve the livelihoods o f local communities.

     Key lessons includethe needsto:

        enhance EDC capacity to better link ProtectedArea management with village
        development and livelihood needs;
        move conservationpractices into the wider landscape by integrating Protected Area
        activities with those affecting the adjacent rural/agriculture sector more generally,
        as,for example, by taking an ecosystem sewices approach;
        better target research and monitoring, including that on changes in vegetative cover
        andpopulations of key species and their interface with the wider landscape, to serve
        the managementpriorities of ProtectedAreas;
        improve monitoring and evaluation indicators - including the quality of baseline data
        -- and their application to help gauge the benefits of conservation interventions; and,
        use recent legislation, including the Freedom of Information Act, to assist local
        communities to realize thefull benefits of conservation and sustainable development
        through more directparticipation in decision-making.


                                                                     Vinod Thomas
                                                                     Director-General
                                                                        Evaluation

                                               1


1.      Background

1.1       Support for ecodevelopment byNGOs and the GO1emerged early inthe 1990's
when itwas acceptedthat the "protectiodexclusion system" o fwildlife management had
not worked. An ecodevelopment strategy was developed by the GO1inthe early 90s
with the aim o f accommodating the welfare andbehavior o flocalpeople and integrating
these concerns into management o f Protected areas (PAS).It also sought to buildprivate
sector stakeholder support for conservation among NGOs, nature tour operators andthe
general public. The strategy built upon the gains initiated inthe 70s under Joint Forest
Management Forest Management wherein decision-making authority andresponsibility
for control over forestlands and their products are sharedbetween forest department and
local usedgroups. Helpedby the National Wildlife Action Plan (1983), the
EnvironmentalAction Plan(1993) and, as signatory to the Convention on Biological
Diversity (1993), the GO1increasinglybroadened efforts to enhance community
participation (ifinitially top down). The EighthFive-Year Plan(1992-1997)
incorporated the ecodevelopment approach and it has since become central to promoting
wildlife management throughout India.

1.2       The Bank-fundedFREEP and IEDP Projects covered ninePA sites innine
states and the MadhyaPradeshForestry Project (MPFP), included a substantial
biodiversity component through which 24 priority PASinthe state received financial
support. Together, these provided direction and mutually supportive lessons for
implementationo fthis project and shaped future interventions at the state level. The
lessonspoint to the need from the onset for sound PA leadership, substantive
participation o f all parties, andteam capacity and buildingand sustaining social capital
andcohesion incommunities inandaround the PAS.

1.3       For the purpose o f this review, site visits were made to two o f the seven PAS
supported by the IEDP-Ranthambore Tiger Reserve inRajasthan andPeriyar Tiger
Reserve inKerala. The two sites were selected becauseo f the extremes offered,
Ranthambore TR being considered by all parties to have attained the least successful
outcomes andPeriyar the most successful. Extensive interviews were conduced with GO1
staff andNGOs inDelhi andwith Reserve staff and local villagers andtribal people and
NGOs.

2.      Project DesignandImplementation

 Objectives,Components andImplementationArrangements

2.1       Theproject was financed by an IDA Credit (US$28 million) and a GEF Trust
FundGrant (USS20 million) to India. It was approved inSeptember 1996 andbecame
effective inDecember o f the same year as planned. Over a six-year period, the project
set the ambitious agenda o f conservingbiodiversity through implementingthe
ecodevelopment strategy o f the GO1inand around sevenprotected areas -chosen
because o f their global significance to conserving biodiversity. The Project Tiger Office
(PTO) inthe Forest Department o fthe Ministryo f Environment andForests (MOEF) was
responsible for overall management o f the IEDP and, state governments (through their

                                              2


P A authorities) undertook for field-level project execution usingexistinginter-agency
staff and community organizational structures.

2.2       The objectives were:

        1) Improvedcapacity for protected area (PA) management to conserve
           biodiversity andincrease opportunities for localparticipationinP A
           management activities and decision-making;
       2) Reducednegative impacts o f local people onbiodiversity, reduced negative
           impacts on localpeople, and increased collaboration o f localpeople in
           conservation efforts;
       3) More effective and extensive support for conservation and ecodevelopment
       4) Effective management o f the project; and,
        5) Preparation o f fbture biodiversity projects.

2.3       Theproject comprised the following components:

       a) ImprovedPA management (estimated costs US$ 15.3m; 23% o ftotal costs;
          actual expenditures US$ 15.5m; 25% o ftotal costs) to strengthen park
          protection andmanagement inseven PASthrough: (i)       improvedP A planning
          processes andbuildingcapacity o f P A staff;@) incorporating P A concerns into
          regional planningandregulation; (iii)   protecting andmanaging ecosystems and
          habitats within the PA; and, (iv) upgradingPA amenities for field staff.

       b) Villageecodevelopment (US$36. lm; 54% oftotal costs; actual expenditures
          US$32.8m; 54% o f total costs) designed to reduce negative impacts o f local
          people on biodiversity andincrease collaborationo f localpeople in
          conservation by: (i)  conductingparticipatory micro planningandproviding
          implementation support for micro plans inecodevelopment villages (ii)
          implementingreciprocal commitments that foster alternative livelihoods and
          resource uses, to be financed by a village ecodevelopment program, with
          specific measurable actions by localpeople to improve conservation (iii)
          special programs for additionaljoint forest management, voluntary relocation,
          and supplemental investmentsfor special needs.

       c) Education and awareness and impact monitoring and research (US$5.2m;
          8.7% o f total costs; actual expenditures $2.8m; 4.5% o f total costs) involved
          developingmore effective andextensive support for PA ecodevelopment,
          including: (i) promoting public support for conservation through environmental
          education and awareness campaigns; and, (ii)    impact monitoring andresearch
          to improve understanding o f issues and solutions relevant to PA management
          andinteractions between PASandpeople.

       d) Overallproject management (US5.8m; 9% oftotal costs; actual expenditures
          US$ 9.3; 15% o ftotal costs) supported the management organizationand
          activities covering: direct PA management, implementationstrategy and
          guidelines, multi-statelearningand dissemination, implementationreview;
          national-level policy studies; and national-level administration

        e) Preparation of future biodiversityprojects (US$2.6m; 3.9% o f total costs;
           actual expenditure US$0.61; 1.O % o ftotal costs) covering: (i)   Second
           Ecodevelopment project (ii)   Biodiversity Information project and (iii) Ex-situ
           conservation project. This component was dropped at MTR.

2.4     Additionally, the project includedReimbursement o f Project Preparation Facility
(US$2m or 3% o ftotal costs; actual expenditure US$ 0.005m; 0.1% o ftotal costs).

2.5     A t appraisal, the project cost was estimated at US$ 67 million, o f which the IDA
sharewas US$28 million, GEF's US$20 million, the national and state government's
US$ 14.42 million, and local communities (US$4.5 million). It was approved in
September 1996 and became effective inDecember of the same year. Revisions to the
project took place inMay 2000 and cost allocations were restructured inJune 2002 after
canceling US$ 7.8 million from the credit (US$5.6) and from the Grant (US$2.2
million). The project closed inJune 2002, two years behind schedule, the two one-year
extensions for some PASbeingjustified on the grounds that more time was needed to
create new institutions and buildcapacity; restructuringinvolved reducing the scope of
some targets and dropping the component on the preparationo f future biodiversity
projects. Actual project costs were US$61 millionofwhich the IDA share was US$ 18.6
million, GEFUS$ 16 million, national and state government US$ 21.4 million, and local
communities US$4.97 million.


Project Design

2.6     Projectpreparation recognizedthe uniquechallenges posed by the adoption o f the
ecodevelopment approach, institutional complexity and demand and the need for clear
commitment and support for implementationby state governments andNGOs, the
uncertainties o f devolvingpower between the central and state governments and the
application o fthe voluntary relocation concept. All parties were aware o f ambitious tasks
before them, particularly inpiloting a participatory approach for PA management and
ecodevelopment aimed at fundamental changes inthe relationships between forestry staff
and communities livinginand around PAS.Strengths o f design are clear: effective
balancing o f conservation and community needs and aspirations through achieving
significant support for ecodevelopment; substantive social assessment and participation
o f communities at most sites and the application o f voluntary resettlement; and, the
provision o f a Community Development Fund(CDF) to sustain local level
Ecodevelopment Committees (EDCs). PA management staff capacity was effectively
enhanced and communitiesmobilized against poachers and encroachers and habitat
restorationandincreases inwildlife populations are evident. Weaknesses have emerged
with respect to: estimates o fthe number o fEDCs to be established; timely flow o ffunds
and management costs; and institutional capacity. The latter would have benefited from
more attention to: better definedcapacitybuildingmeasures and, inrecognition o f
devolving authority between central and state governments, clearer definition o f authority
and procedures for budget flows and arrangements for contracting. The use o fresearch
grants suffered becauseo f delays inthe prior needfor establishing PA management plans
and consequent insufficient time for implementation. Inaddition, the scope o f the

                                              4


research should have been more focused onpriorities and assessingproject impacts.
Lastly, linkage with the ruraVagriculture sector and wideningengagement with the
landscape via RegionalPlanningCommittees was a neglected feature o fthe IEDP.Local
communities and government agencies around PASprovide unique opportunities to
mainstream conservation and sustainable use activities intheir respective development
activities - a feature incorporated inthe succeeding biodiversity conservationproject.

2.7     More attention mighthave been givento the project's demandingplanning
processes and institutional and financial arrangements andthe absence o f skills inGO1
and state staff and communities. Detailed organizational structures and responsibilities,
staffing needs andcontracting arrangements were agreed duringpreparationbut
foundered at some sites duringthe early phase o f the project because of failure to build
sufficient capacity and generate ownership at state and community levels.
ProjectImplementation

2.8     The project suffered from a number o f design shortcomings contributing to
unsatisfactory progress inthe first four years of its implementation. The ambitious scale
o fthe project, demanding processes andprocedures, complexity o f institutional
arrangements and a five-year timeframe imposedtoo great a burdenon state staff and at
some sites raised unrealistic expectations with local communities. The limitations o f
technical expertise and experience were under appreciated, inpart because weaknesses
were generalized duringpreparationrather than being addressed specifically at each site;
similarly, financial andbudget arrangements were insufficiently detailed, particularly in
the face o fputative institutional experience. The role o fthe PTO and PA management in
outreach and disseminating lessons learned proveddisappointing, especially inthe early
stages o f the project and may have compromised ownership and understandingo fthe
project. Nonetheless, the promotion o f resettlement ina PA context andthe deployment
o f social assessment and participationplanning, established a durable precedence inthe
accommodation o f conservation and community needs andtheir reconciliation. Some
sites benefited from a community contribution o f 25%; more particularly, the creation o f
a CommunityDevelopment Fund(CDF) at many sites provided for the maintenance o f
Ecodevelopment Committees (EDCs) beyondthe life o f the project.

2.9     Delayedprocessing by the GO1meant that funds went unused untilOctober 1997
(some 10 months after effectiveness) and the Bank's Task Team leadership changed
several times denying continuity and focus andaction on pressingissues. The Nagarhole
National Park site drew an inquiryby the Bank's InspectionPanel over aprevailing (pre-
project) conflict betweenthe Forest Department andthe divergent perspectives o f
conservationists andpro-tribalNGOs over resource use inthe Park. A Bank Board
meetingon the issue in 10December 1998, rejected the need for a full investigationand
askedBankManagement to work with the GO1inaddressing the concerns o f the
InspectionPanel (inconsultationwith local communities), particularly inreorganizing
implementationto: ascertain the willingness for relocation; assess the economic status o f
relocatingfamilies; implement measures to improve the livelihood o frelocated families;
andprepare and implementmicro plans within the Park. This the GO1and the Bank
completed and though there was a consequent delay inimplementation at Nagarhole, it

                                               5


provided an opportunity for re-evaluation inintroducing actions at other sites
demonstrating voluntary relocation as a viable mechanismto resolvingpressures on PAS.

2.10      A Mid-TermReview(MTR) inMay/June 2000 revisedtargets o fEDCmicroplan
coverage and droppingthe component on the preparationo f future biodiversity projects
largely because o fthe project's weak performance and the needto devote priorities to
strengthening capacity at the central level, to disseminate lessons learned and develop
more resilient sustainability strategies for ecodevelopment activities at specific sites.
Prioritieswere focused upon: strengtheningcapacity at the central level; taking stock of
lessons learned and their dissemination; anddeveloping more resilient sustainability
strategies for ecodevelopment activities at specific sites. Other revisions at MTRreflected
the need to buildcapacity among forestry staff and villagers andreduce the number o f
Ecodevelopment Committee microplans and some originally targetedvillages. A two-
year extension o f scheduledproject closure (June 2002) allowed ecodeveloment project
sites to absorb these systemic actions anddevelop institutional arrangements at the local
level commensurate with the many challenges faced inmainstreamingbiodiversity
conservation. Progress thereafter was usedto justify extensions o f the credit/grant closing
date to achieve agreedperformance criteria.

2.11 The dropping o f the component on the preparationo f future biodiversity projects
i s felt by some inthe conservation community to have compromisedthe momentumbuilt
up under ecodevelopment activities at the PAS.However, while the missionconcurs that
the inclusiono f some additional sites might have beentimely towards the end o f the
project, the allocation o f saved finance at the M T R to other project components suffering
problems was justified. A secondphase follow-on designed to support the management
o fprotectedareas and other sensitive areaswithin selected landscapes i s currently under
preparation. This has allowed experience gained under IEDP to shape better-targeted
interventions as well as enhance ownership at all levels.



3.       Evaluation Findings

Relevance of objectives

3.1        The relevance o f the projects' objectives is rated high overall. The IEDPwas
fully consistent with the Bank's CountryAssistance Strategy andGO1priorities and
attained enhanced relevance following revisions and restructuring. The global objective
o f conservingbiodiversity inseven critical areas in a mega-diversity country was in
compliance with guidance from the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and GEF
Counsel deliberations. The project supported funding o f seven globalpriority sites using
a pilot approach for eventual extension to other protected area sites inIndia. The
relevance o fproject management i s rated negligible, as this shouldbe considered as a
normal instrument o f implementation. Though dropped duringMTR, the objective o f
preparingo f future biodiversity conservation projectsi s ratedhigh.

                                             6


Efficacy and Efficiency

3.2        Eficacy and efficiency are rated modest. Table 1provides ratings o f the project
objectives andthe following paragraphs evaluate project achievements andbenefits by
the five objectives.

                          Table 1: Project Objectives and Rating
                              Relevance       EfJicacy       Efficiency       Outcomes
1. Improved PA
         Objective
                                 High         Substantial     Substantial     Satisfactory
managementlopportunities
for local participation
2. Reduced negative              High         Substantial       Modest      Moderately
impacts of local people on                                                  satisfactory
biodiversity, reduced
negative impacts on local
people, and increased
collaboration of local
people in conservation
efforts.
3. More effective and            High          Modest          Modest         Moderately
extensive support for                                                         satisfactory
conservation and
ecodevelopment
4. Effective management        Negligible     Negligible      Negligible       Negligible
of the project

5. Preparation of Future         High         Negligible      Negligible       Negligible
biodiversity projects
Overall rating                                 Modest          Modest         Moderately
                                                                              satisfactory



Objective 1:Improved capacityfor protected area (PA) management to conserve
biodiversity and increase opportunitiesfor localparticipation in PA management
activities and decision-making.

3.3     There i s compelling evidence o f improvedPA management capacity (both Forest
staff andvolunteers) at most sites andbenefits accruingto local communities are
tangible, e.g., improvedwater supplies and reduced tiger attacks. After a shaky start,
mechanisms for stakeholder participationwere established and PA staff found them
particularly helpfulinimplementing improvements to community livelihoods and
welfare. Insufficient staffing and experience at some PASimposed some constraints
though champions often negotiated them through sheer dedication andprofessionalism.
Villagers provedtheir worth at a number o f sites whenthey overcame leadership
monopoly or elite capture (PRT may be cited as good practice); indeed, the active
participationo f local communities grew during implementation and, save for Nagarhole,
may be considered a significant contribution to helping resolve tensions around the
selected Reserves and indesigningmutually supportive approaches to biodiversity
conservation at the local level. A disappointment has been the working o fthe Regional
PlanningCommittees established ineach State; at some sites, such committees have not
been active inpromoting conservation inthe wider landscape through the mediation o f

                                                7


bothprivate andpublic sectors. On occasion, this constrained the expansiono f gains
within and beyondthe buffer zone

3.4      Visits to two sites, RTRandPTR, and a literature review of evaluations o fother
sites confirmedthat the project has attained goodresults at the field level. Careful
selection ofPA officers to maintain focus, consistency and continuity proved essential to
P A management. Less satisfactory outcomes are apparent at the Project Tiger Office in
the MOEFwhere it is clear that staffwere frequently overwhelmedby administrative
duties at the expense o f sustaining national level studies supporting the implementation
and monitoringo fthe project's disparate activities; this persists. The role o fthe MOEF
continues to be limited inengaging the agriculture sector, the lack o f a mandate covering
review and clearance o f agricultural andrural development projects and inexperience o f
P A management with the wider productive landscape beingcontributing factors.

3.5.     Management plans were producedfor all sites, though the timing o f their
completionand quality as baseline data andresearch did not always address needed
planningrequirements andcorrective actions came late intheplanningprocess. Although
attention to buffer zones andbeyond and consequent reconciliation of forest department
andcommunity needswas uneven, habitatprotectionwas improvedat most sites with the
effective applicationo f offset activities such as securing sustained water supplies for
surrounding communities. Nonetheless, some o f the communities around Ranthambore
TR demonstrated the fragility o f this gain where lack o f financial support for
continuatiodexpansion o f ecodevelopment activities threatens a reversionto the use o f
Reserve resources.

Objective2: Reduced negative impacts of localpeople on biodiversity, reduced negative
impacts on localpeople, and increased collaboration of localpeople in conservation
efforts.

3.6      Although baseline studies andresearch suffered delays because of the prior need
for establishing P A management plans, participatory monitoring recorded a reduced
dependenceo f communities upon PA resources (such as firewood and enhancement o f
their livelihoods). This was confirmedby IEGfield observations where control o f
poaching and intrusion pressures on PAShas resulted inhabitat regeneration along with
increasedwildlife populations o fkey species. At bothRanthambore andPeriyar Tiger
Reserves, local communities undertake patrols to control poaching and encroachment
uponthe Reserves andwork closely with P A staff insustaining conservation objectives.

3.7      The IEGMission found improvementsto habitat protectionmostly following a
shift inthe attitudes o f surroundingcommunitiesto the PAS(especially RTR), with
mutual gains beingrealized through livelihood security, particularlyvia sustained water
supplies. The mission corroborated reports indicating reduced tiger attacks and, insome
instances, better managed access; field visits observed the substantive involvement o f
localpeople inconservation activities    -- facilitatedbydevelopment o fcommunity
infrastructure (school buildings, roads, irrigation andwater supply), compensation
payments for resolving community-wildlife conflicts and construction o fwildlife proof
walls/fences. Such involvement took the form o f voluntary patrols, alerting PA staff to
poachers and buildingawareness of the benefits o f conservation.

                                                 8


 3.8      The S A R target o festablishing andmaintaining 806 Ecodevelopment Committees
 (EDCs) covering 71,000 households was revised at MTRwith a target o f 569 to better
 reflect local realities; at project completion, some 580 were inplace, covering 75,000
 households. Sizeable community development funds have been generated by the EDCs at
 some sites, especially Periyar TR; incontrast, Ranthambore TR continues to experience
 tense relationships between some villages around the Reserve andthe panchayats; this
 threatens accomplishments andthe initiation o f further activities.

 3.9      OnlyPTRwas able to abide substantivelybythe micro-planningprocess andits
provisions (invoking equity, gender and socio-economic conservation considerations)
 stipulated inthe SAR. Generally, the lack o f competent professional experience impaired
rigorous assessment o fPA threats, selection o f funded activities by EDCs (andother
groups) and attention to preventingelite capture. This was sometimes exacerbated bythe
mandatory25% financial contributions to assess ecodevelopment benefits -- only
partially offset by involving Self-Help Groups (SHGs) not requiring such contributions.
Infuture, it is recommended that specialist expertisebedrawnfrom experienced
government staff and consultancies so that capacity buildingo f local staff may assure
delivery o fmicro-planning outputs. Equally, the project time frame o f five years
pressuredthe micro-planningcomponent and the effective buildingo fpartnerships; this
underminedthe rational selection o fvillages impacting on the PASand ledto charges o f
discriminationor diminishedcommitment to conservation. Though intendedunder the
project, more durable mechanisms needto be developed to target villages with poorer
populations andwhich have the greatest impact on PA viability.

3.10     Visible gains were made ingalvanizing local communities to form EDCs for
conservation inand around the PAS. Though initially, financial administration endured a
rocky ride, many EDCs established Community Development Funds (CDFs) as revolving
funds for use beyondthe project. Regularaudits ensuringtransparency and
accountability were conducted according to prescribedguidelines andprocedures at most
sites and these continue beyondproject completion. A quite remarkable model in
assuring social sustainability has beenestablished at PTRwhere investment insocial
cohesion and capital has empowered the poorer sections o f the community including
tribals. Further,tractable measures have been adopted insustaining ecologicalbenefits -
water resources management, habitat restoration, reduction o f threats, especially
poaching, clearance o f invasive species, etc. Zoning for visitor/wildlife management has
beenincorporatedinPA Management Plans and expansiono fbufferzones andcontiguity
o fPAs (through wildlife corridors) i s under considerationat a few sites, notably PTR.
The challenge remains to capitalize on these and other achievements through expanding
the work o f EDCs and includingvillages impactingPASnot included inecodevelopment
activities under the project. This i s especially the case at RTRwhere the Mission heard
complaints from local communities about their exclusion. The missionconcurs with the
view expressed inmanyreports that the nationalinstitutions component hasbeen
handicapped by the absence o f an ecodevelopment wing at the PTO and a lack o f
empowerment o fthe Ecodevelopment Project Steering Board and an independent panel
to report to the chair person o f the Board. At some sites, the ability to engage the wider
landscape went largely unsupported possibly because o fthe absence or delayed formation
of effective Regional Committees; these could have beena valuable bridgeto allocating
funds outside ofthe PASand gainingbroader support for conservation. This deficiency

                                               9


hasbeen recognizedby all parties and is to be addressedinthe follow-on project that will
involve other sites. Incontrast, village institutionshave proventheir worth at a number
o f sites, especially when they overcame leadership monopoly or elite capture (PRT may
becitedas goodpractice). Likewise, expert facilitationbya forest department officer at
manysites providedcritical mediationinbalancingconservation andlivelihood
requirements and Self-Help Groups (SHGs) organizedwomen inthe use o fmicro-credit
funds. However, only a few o fthe sites have been allocated support to continue SHG
project activities beyondthe life o fthe project. Accordingly, it i s suggestedthat more
specific arrangements shouldhave beendefined on capacity building, administration and
other procedures (including delegation o f authority), budget allocations and flows and
contracting.

3.11 Another aspect requiringattentioninvolves promoting effective working relations
between the EDCs and the panchayats, especially the latter's capacity to provide funds
for village ecodevelopment activities. The Mission's visit to RTRwas particularly
instructive inthis regard. The Government o fRajasthan has yet to establish an
ecodevelopment surcharge for the Reserve, imperilinggains in sustaining/widening the
benefits o fwater security, grazing and other "offset strategies" and conservation based
activities inbuffer zones andmilitating against continuance or initiation o f other needed
work. Incontrast, the PTR has mobilizedconsiderable funding for sustaining ECD and
other organizations including creation and runningo f the Periyar Foundation(PF) which
benefits from PA visitor fees.

3.12     After a shaky start, when understanding andownership of IEDPbythe GO1and
local governments were indoubt, the project recovered following state government
orders (GOs) clarifying and approving actions for all seven sites following substantive
intervention by the Bank. This appears to have provided administrative organization and
empowered project staff to implementguidelines and strategies insupport o f
ecodevelopment activities inand around PAS.Under the project, impressivegains were
made with promoting conservation awareness at most sites -nature camps, education
centers, and eco-clubs inEDC villages, local language guides, etc. -- though scaling up to
engage the public and private sectors inthe larger landscape remains a constant
challenge. Here the deployment o f RegionalPlanningCommittees would have proven
instrumental.

3.13     The stricture onbufferzone demarcation some two kilometers from the PA
boundary was clearly inappropriate at some sites and ledto tensions that persist. A
disappointment has been the absence o f NGOs at most sites, especially inlater stages o f
the project, for their contributionwould have assisted transparency and accountability in
transactions at the local level as well as strengthening community capacity. Though the
client sought their involvement andthough supportive o f the project, it appears that most
NGOshadother priorities, especially intackling urbanpoverty

Objective 3: More effective and extensivesupportfor conservation and ecodevelopment

3.14     Ingeneral, theproject generated significant awareness andsupport for
conservation and the ecodevelopment model. All states housing the seven PASpassed
government orders institutionalizingthe model and strategies have beendeveloped

                                              10


around individual sites to sustain and expand ecodevelopment activities. Further
achievements includedenhanced pubic awareness, running educational and media
campaigns, teacher training and establishment o f education centers, nature camps and
workshops for schoolchildren and Eco-clubs inEDC villages. Newsletters were
publishedand informationwas disseminated onthe economic value o fthe PASto local
communities.

3.15     Baseline data to monitor reduction o f adverse impacts o f localpeople on
biodiversity andreducing adverse impacts o f PAs on localpeople were completed at
most sites andimpact monitoringplans were integrated into P A management plans.
However, progress on research andmonitoringhas beenmixed. Some PASundertook
and are continuing valuable conservation and socioeconomic analysis and more a more
effective tracking tool for large mammals (mainly the tiger) has been implemented.
Other PASexperienced delays indefining a relevant adaptable research program or not
effectivelydisseminating the findings at state and local levels. The PTOmight havebeen
more active inaddressing this issue by helpingspeed up the completion o f PA
management plans andthereby allowing more time for neededresearch; as it is, project
fbndingfor researchandmonitoringwas utilized only 50%. Incontrast, - anda small
grants program institutedat the Midterm Review facilitated exchanges betweenPASand
local academic institutions and a pilot project was implemented inPTR for sustainable
access to funds for research and development.

Objective4: Effective management of theproject

3.16     The ICR (dated October 04) treats the achievement o fthis objective very briefly
and rates it satisfactory. However, this review questions the inclusion o f this objective as
it differs little from normal support givento management organization and activities.
Thus, althoughstudies andtheir dissemination have been completed and lessons learned
circulated to other parks, NGOs and other stakeholders (prompted at the MTR) this
review rates the relevance o f this objective as negligible

Objective 5: Preparation of future biodiversityprojects

3.17     The component supportingthe preparation of future biodiversityprojects was
dropped at MTR largely becauseo f slow progress o f the overall project. The M T R
concluded that there was prior needto concentrate upon: strengthening capacity at the
central level; taking stock o f lessons learned and their dissemination; and developing
more resilient sustainability strategies for ecodevelopment activities at specific sites.
While this loss impairedmultiplyingthe benefits to other PASduringproject
implementation, the Bank i s preparing a follow-on project designed to support the
management o fprotectedareas andother sensitive areas within selected landscapes ina
more favorable context and climate for ecodevelopment, especially at the local level

FinancialAnalysWManagement

3.18     No financial analysis was conducted for any o f the project's activities because o f
the nature ofinterventions (biodiversity conservation, improving the enabling
environment, etc.) andthe difficulty o f quantifying economic rates o f return. However,

                                             11


questions may beraised about project costs. Total project costs at the end o fthe project
stood at US$ 63.30 million against an estimated US$ 67.00 at appraisal. Revisedtargets
set at MTRincluded dropping the preparation o f future biodiversityprojects and
reallocating substantial portions to the project management component (increased from
US$ 5.83 millionto U S $ 9.4 million. Disbursement shows substantial increase incivil
works and equipment costs mostly due to additional eco-restoration activities (which
included employment generation) thanpredicted at appraisal. Government funds
increased from US$ 14.40 millionto US$21.40 million following needed for
management requirements during the two-year extensiono f the project.

3.19      Supervision costs amounted to US$ 918,000.00, a substantial departure from
normal coefficients andreflect the need to compensate for adequacies o f design. The
rapid turnover o f Task Team Leaders (four inthe first three years o f implementation),
may also explainthis highcost along with revisions at MTR; staff led later supervision
missions from the resident mission inDelhi.

3.20     TheBank ICR (October 04) statesthat there was limited financial management
inputduringproject preparation with the consequence that the ProjectTiger Office (PTO)
didnot have sufficient control of finance andtraining ofproject staffinBankpolicies and
procedures was absent. Instances o fmis-classification o f expenditure, ineligible
expenditure claims and significant errors inpreparationclaims resultedleading at times
to temporary suspension SOE reimbursement.


4.       Ratings

Outcome

4.1        Basedupon the evidence o frelevance, efficacy and efficiency, IEGfinds the
project's outcome to be moderatelysatisfactory.Though the project's relevance i s rated
highefJicacy is ratedmodest. The capacity ofPA management was improvedwith
increased participationo f local communities inconservation efforts and management
plansbeingproducedfor the seven PAS;however, some sufferedinquality as baseline
data and research didnot always addressneededplanningrequirementsand corrective
actions came late inthe planningprocess. There was also unevenuse o fRegional
PlanningCommittees established for promotingconservation inthe wider landscape. The
objective o fpreparingfuture biodiversity conservation projectswas dropped. EfJiciency
i s also rated modest. Participatorymonitoring recordeda reduced dependence o f
communities uponPA resources and control o fpoaching and intrusion pressures on PAS
has resultedinhabitat regeneration along with increasedwildlife populations. Visible
gains were made ingalvanizing local communities to form EDCs for conservation inand
around the PAS.Some 580 Ecodevelopment Committees (EDCs) were formed covering
75,000 households. However, it appearsthat only PTRwas able to abide substantivelyby
the micro-planning process and its provisions and the lack o f competent professional
experience impairedrigorous assessment o f PA threats, selection o f funded activities by
EDCs (and other groups). Equally, the project time frame o f five years pressuredthe
micro-planning component and the effective buildingo f partnerships. A major benefit o f

                                               12


the project was improvementsto people-park relationshipsandthe project generated
significant awareness and support for conservation and ecodevelopment        .

Sustainability

4.2       Sustainability, the resilience to risk o fnet benefits flows over time, i s rated
likelythough only moderatelyso for there are some troublingareasthat continue
following project completion. The project aimed at enhancing the viability of PASby
enabling forest departments to integrate and share their responsibilities with local
communities. Deft design o f administration arrangements andmaintaining the
ecodevelopment approach was considered central to sustainability, especially by
increasing public support for PAS,the continuation o f benefits supported by the project
and dedication o f financinghevenues for longer-term activities. Many o fthese aims have
beenmet: close interactions betweenPA staff and localcommunities at many sites ledto
a sharing o fpatrolling and site-specific micro-planning underpinned by the development
o fmutual trust; a new participatory and community-basedstrategy for conservationin
and around PASwas established and successfully implemented; and, as a commitment
andexpression o f ownership to local communities raised some US$4millionin
community funds.

4.3       A number of actions needto becontinuedinthepost-project periodto assure
sustainability: villages crucial to helpingstabilize the boundaries andbuffer zones around
the PASexcluded inthe project need to be accommodated; community commitment
should receive the attention o fPA staff and local government; and, some community
organizations shouldprepare suitably scaled actionplans.Fieldvisits suggested this was
underway at PTR but threatened to be inthe breachat RTR. The succeeding Biodiversity
Conservation andRural Livelihoods Improvement Project should helpbolster these
efforts.  .

InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact

4.4       Institutionaldevelopment impact i s rated substantial. Ina climate o f general
inexperience and risks regarding participation and trust by local communities, limited
implementation capacity and questionable management support, the project pursued
innovations that often meant painful negotiationwith state and local agencies and
communities. Nevertheless, many innovations are now part o f forest development
operations at national and state levels and the PTOprovides a dedicated budget for
ecodevelopment activities. To keep matters on track substantial modifications were
adopted at the MTR infavor o freallocation o f finances to address emergingproblems
and subsequent BankMissions steppedup the quality and frequency o f supervision
though, as observed elsewhere inthis report, this shouldhave been done earlier.

Monitoringand Evaluation:Design, Implementationand Utilization

4.5      This activity is under-reported inthe Bank's ICRs andis rated modest.The
development objective o f improvingPA management and improving opportunities for
local participationwas usedas an indicator throughout implementation; progress on

                                               13


mechanisms for regional planningand regulations are less well reported andthe Mission
learned that Regional Development Committees have yet to be established. Incontrast,
participatorymonitoring was able to demonstrate reduced dependence o f communities on
PA resources and enhancement o ftheir livelihoods; equally, the establishment and
deployment o f a Management Effectiveness Tracking Tool for PASproved very effective.

Bank Performance

4.6        Considerable resources were dedicated at project preparation and appraisal, its
beingrecognized by the Task Team that a multi-disciplinary team was needed to develop
an innovative and demanding approach to the challenge o f conservationo f PASinIndia
and to provide detailed guidance for its successful implementation. Inevitably, the
efficiency ofthe many institutions involvedproved disappointingbothwith respect to the
suitability of GOIs administrativeprocedures and capacity, support from the Center and
the involvement o fline ministries at the locallevel; the few NGOspresent around PAS
address conventionalrural development needs and do not consider conservation a priority
as was observed by the Mission duringvisits to Ranthambore Tiger Reserve (RTR) and
Periyar Tiger Reserve (PTR). Despitehaving the experience o f Joint Forest Management
and FREEP at hand (where a clear lesson was the needfor intensive supervision), the
Bank's performance up to themid-point implementationis considered unsatisfactory
and satisfactory thereafter. A continuingchange o fTTLs (four duringthe first three
years o f implementation), meant timely actions were not taken, e.g. facilitating GO1
procedures, strengtheningthe capacity o fthe PTO, helpingdedicate staff, especially at
the local level andovercomingconstraints andbottlenecks such as the simplificationo f
targets to be attained by the EDCs and empowering stakeholders.

4.7        The review o f the project to the InspectionPanel appeared to concentrate efforts
by all parties andledto somebreakthroughs, but it was not untilthe MTRthat
substantive actions were taken to overcome major bottlenecks -dropping one o fthe
components (preparation o f future biodiversity projects), strengthening management and
revisingandrefocusing o ftargets to reflect realities on the ground, especially EDC
coverage -andthat full participation o f all stakeholders was fully realized. Thereafter,
Banksupervision appearsto haveplayeda criticalrole inhelpingmeet specific
objectives, empowering government institutions and communities and disseminating
goodpractice through strengthening PTO operations. As the Mission learned during
visits to PTR andRTR, the stepped-up involvement o fBank staff specialists (ledbythe
Resident MissioninDelhi) sustained commitment, helpedresolve difficult issues and
provided technical insight. Bringinginexperience from around the world was especially
appreciated, particularly inhelpingsolve systemic problems. PA staff assisting the
Mission also acknowledged the value o f sharing knowledge and experience gained by
Bankstafffrom visits to other sites inIndiaandother countries inthe sub-continent.

Borrower Performance

4.8       Borrower performance i s rated satisfactory overall, but unsatisfactory during
the earlyphases o fimplementationandsatisfactory thereafter. Duringits earlyphasethe
project had to overcome constraints and impedimentsto effective management; these

                                                14


rangedfromproblemswith institutionalefficiency (establishing fundingmechanisms,
EDCs, etc.) to delays with funding andtechnical studies and agreeing an effective
communications strategy. Not surprisingly, management costs increased as steps were
taken at MTRto rectify systemic problems at all levels.

4.9         The extensive scope andcomplex demands o f design told early on and only
following concerted efforts duringandafter MTR was high-levelinterest, ownership and
responsibility by GO1and state officials obtained. At times during implementation, the
follow up andtimely interventiono f the PTO inthe MOEFwas inadequate (and remains
so today), inpartbecauseo funder staffing. Although there i s evidence o fgoodworking
arrangements betweenthe PTO andthe states duringproject preparation, (all parties
recognizing the opportunity for charting a new approach to biodiversity conservation
through improvedparldpeople relationships and instrumentsto improve the livelihoods of
local communities), this faltered duringthe first stages o f implementation insustaining
priorities and tackling institutionalbottlenecks. Equally, givensuch innovationand
demands, the national and state governments shouldhave beenmore candid about their
constraints, including overall institutionalcapacity, slow procedures for appointment and
availability o f technically qualified staff andthe ability o f state bureaucracy to process
funds andwillingnessto empower civil society. These constraints severely hampered
implementation duringthe first few years and it i s a single failure o f the GO1and the
Bank not to have intervenedbefore M T R andtaken necessary actions.

4.10       At the field level, the Missionobserved a markedcontrast betweenmanagement
o f RTR andPTR, the latter having aggressively exerted its authority and influence at all
levels o f state and local arms o f government and local communities. InRTR,
management continues to needdirection and a more effective dialogue with the state to
assure commitment to sustaining the Reserve; equally, there is a continuing lack o f
revenue from hotel tourism andinfavor o f ecodevelopment and conservation and entry
fees are not flowing back to the PA. Such resources are critical where no revolving
budgeti s available to those villages continuingto adversely impact the Reserve.

4.11       The Project Tiger Office (PTO) inthe MOEFplayed aninstrumentalrole in
disseminating information, staffing workshops and deriving lessons learned for state and
local application at all sites. However, the demands o f the PTO compromisedattention to
management and administrationissues across a range o f activities including financial
management and support to technical aspects. (The Mission observed that inadequate
staffing continues the Director andhis staffbeing clearly overburdened). Therewas also
slippage at the state level at selecting andmanaging consultants providing essential
technical assistance.

5.       Lessons Learned

5.1        The experience o f IEDP offers a number o f seminal lessons for future Bank
supported statewide interventions inconserving biodiversity through PASand support to
local communities inIndia and elsewhere. The lessons point for substantiveparticipation
o f all parties (especially inthe early stages), andteam capacity andbuildingand
sustaining social capital andcohesion incommunities inand around the PASand sound
PA leadership:

                                       15



Enhancing the capabilities of Ecodevelopment Committees (EDCs) to better link
the management ofprotected areas with village development and livelihood
needs. This component proved a powerful agent at some sites insustaining
commitment o f local communities to P A management. Funds enabled the poorest
to overcome the grip o fmoneylenders andtheir dependency on poaching and
other destructive practices. To enhance the use o f EDCs infuture projects, it is
recommended that: the dependency o fhouseholds uponPA resources be
recognized, especially intheir often limitedability to provide a 25% contribution
to micro-planning and community funding; GO1staff (PA field staff inparticular)
should be dedicated andtrained inthe concept o f ECD operations to develop both
appreciation o f its power and facilitation inbringingall parties together and
enabling interfacingwith other government programs and reducing conflicts
between PA and community needs. The tendency insome sites for EDCs to
operate under a monopoly o f leadership and under represent threats to PASshould
be monitoredclosely; they should also guard against a `treadmill' approach to
micro-planning and assure greater integrationwith the efforts o f the SHGs.

Moving conservation practices into the wider landscape by integratingprotected
area activities with the rural/agriculture sector. This element o f the IEDP was
neglected, but i s a core feature o fthe succeeding project. Local communities and
government agencies aroundPASprovide uniqueopportunitiesto mainstream
conservation and sustainable use activities intheir respective development
activities. For example, resource use strategies can help strengthen moving forest
based local economies to sustainable use management. Such an "ecosystem
services" approach could mobilize the experience o fthe JFT alternative
livelihoods initiative (alternative energy, livestock rearing, etc.) so that income
generation i s not wholly dependent upon forest resources. The landscape
approach may also be used to widen PA boundaries through the creation o f
biological corridors or BiosphereReserves (with multiple use zoning); it i s also a
usefultool inintegratingbiodiversity conservation (including wild races o f such
plants as bananas) with policy and development decision-making at the macro
level. Equally, PA management plans shouldbetter reflect regionalplanning
concerns and bebetter championedby the Ecodevelopment Project Steering
Committee at the national and District Collectors (as chairpersons o f regional
committees at the PNregional level. The EDCs could also play a supportive role.

 Better targeting of research and monitoring to serve the management priorities
ofprotected areas. This component remained a challenge and few dividends were
secured at most sites ininfluencingthe formulation o f indicatorsmeasuring
changes invegetation cover andpopulations o fkey species, including interface
with thewider landscape. These gaps shouldbe addressedwith urgencyinthe
follow on project.

Improving monitoring and evaluation indicators and their application to ensure
benefits of conservation interventions. Insome cases, baseline data were
incomplete frustrating effective monitoring o f changes andtrends to demonstrate
project benefits. Infuture projects, more attention shouldbe given to measuring

                                     16


ecological and socio-economic benefits and derived from conservationand rural
livelihood activities usingo fbiological resources andmanagement capacity,
particularly at the local level.

Using recent legislation infavor of sustainability to assist local communities
realize thefull benejh of sustainable development through more direct
participation decision-making. The recent Freedom o f Information Act and other
legislationprovide civil society with opportunities to better engage indecision-
making at both national and local levels inIndia. Such opportunities shouldbe
exploredto help empower local communities andNGOs intheir bid to articulate
their contributionsto sustainable development and conservation. A pro-active
communications strategy at the time o fproject preparationwould assist local
communitiesmobilize the opportunities indeveloping the goals o f
ecodevelopment and other conservation projects.

                                                         17                                              Annex A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

INDIA ECODEVELOPMENT                     PROJECT (CREDIT 2916-IN)>

Key ProjectData(amounts in US$million)
                                                     Appraisal              Actual or            Actual as % of
                                                     estimate            current estimate      appraisal estimate
Total project costs                                     67.0                  61.O                      91
Credit amount                                           28.0                  18.6                      66
GEF Grant                                               20.0                  16.0                      80
Cancellation                                              --                   8.0                      --

CumulativeEstimatedandActualDisbursements
                        FY97      FY98       FY99      W O O      f f O 1     Fy02      Fy03        FY04      ffO5
Appraisal estimate      0.6       3.1        8.3       16.4         23.0      27.8       27.8       27.8      27.8
(US$M)
Actual (US$M)            1.5      3.2        4.2        6.4          10.2     12.8       15.6       18.6       18.6
Actual as % of          250       103         51        39           44        46        56         66         66
appraisal
Date of final disbursement:  12/28/2004


ProjectDates
                                                              Original                            Actual
PCD                                                              --                             01/22/92
Appraisal                                                                                       05/07/95
Board approval                                                   __--                           09/05/96
Effectiveness                                                 12/09/96                          12/29/96
Closing date                                                  06/30/02                          06/30/04


StaffInputs(staff weeks)

         Stage of Project Cycle                               ActuaVLatest Estimate
                                                No. Staff weeks                        US$ (`000)
   IdentificationIPreparation                    119                                      360
   AppraisallNegotiation                         110                                      298
   Supervision                                   427                                      918
   ICR                                            20                                      40
   Total                                         676                                     2016

Figures above include Bank and GEF funds; Staff weeks for pre-1999period might include consultant time; Figures
derived from Cost Accounting system for pre-1999data and from SAP for remaining years

                                               18                                      Annex A


MissionData
                                                                            Performance rating
      Date (month/year)      No. of       Specializations represented  Implementation Development
                             Persons                                   Prowess        Objective
IdentificationlPreparation
               0311611993        2    FORESTRY(1); ENVIRONMENT(1)
               11/ I1/I
                      994       11    TEAM LEADER(1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                                      SPEC. (2);ENVIRONMENT
                                      CONSULTANT(1);ANTHROPOLOGISl
                                      (1); CONSULTANTANTHROPOLOGY
                                      (2); CONSULTANTINSTITUTIONAL(3):
                                      INFORMATIONSPEC.(I)

AppraisallNegotiation
               0211511996        8   TEAM LEADER(1); ECONOMIST
                                      (1); ECOLOGISTS (2); BOTANIST
                                      (1); FORESTERS (2)
Supervision
               02/28/1997        8   ECONOMIST(1); MISSION
                                     LEADER (1); FORESTER(1);
                                     SOCIALSCIENTIST (3);
                                     ECOLOGIST(1); PARK
                                     MANAGEMENTSPEC. (1)
               05/16/1997        5   TEAM LEADER(1); PROCUREMENT
                                     SPEC. (1); ENVIRONMENTALSPEC.
                                     (1); FINANCIALSPEC. (1); SOCIAL
                                     DEVELOPMENT(1)
               12/03/1997        7   MISSIONLEADER(1); SOCIAL
                                     SCIENTIST(1); ECOLOGIST(1);
                                     ECONOMIST(1); FINANCIAL
                                     SPECIALIST(1); FORESTER(2)
               04/29/1998        2   MISS. LEADERlECOLOGlST(1);             S              S
                                     FORESTER(1)
              0811611998         4   MISS. LEADERlAG.ECON (1);              U             U
                                     COMlSSlON LEAD.SOClOL (1); LEGAL
                                     (1); SOCIOLOGIST(1)
              03/08/1999         5   PRINCIPALECONOMIST(1);
                                     NATURALRESOURCESSPEC (1);
                                     SOCIOLOGIST(2); PA MANAGEMENT
                                     SPEC. (1)
               08/06/1999        2   MISSIONLEADER(1); SOCIAL              S              S

                                     DEVELOPMENTSPECIALIST(1)
              0211012000         4   SOCIALSCIENTIST (1); SOCIAL           U              U
                                     DEVELOPMENT(1); NATURAL
                                     RESOURCESSPEC (1); FINANCEAND
                                     DISBURSEMT (1)
              0511912000        10   MISSIONLEADER(1); FORESTRY            U              U
                                     SPECIALISTS(2);NRM
                                     SPECIALISTS(3);GEF
                                     COORDINATOR(1);ECONOMIST(1);
                                     PROCUREMENTSPECIALIST(1);
                                     FINANCIALMANAGEMENT(1)
              11/29/2000         8   TEAM LEADER, SOCIAL DE (1);           S              S
                                     CONSERVATION(2); GENDER (1);
                                     SOCIAL DEV. (1); PROCUREMENT(1);
                                     FINANCIALMANAGEMENT(1);

                                           19                                        Annex A


                                                                          Performance rating
    Date (monthlyear)    No. of       Specializationsrepresented     Implementation Development
                        persons                                      Progress       Objective

                                  FORESTRY, COST TABLES (1)
           05/03/2001        7    MISSION LEADER (1); SOCIAL DEV
                                  SPECIALIST (2);CONSULTANT (1);
                                  DISBURSEMANTSPEC. (1);
                                  PROCUREMENTSPECIALIST (1);
                                  TEAM LEADER (1)
           10/13/2001        9    TEAM LEADER (1); SR SOCIAL DEV
                                  SPEC (2); SOCIAL DEV SPEC (1); SR
                                  BIODIVERSITYSPEC (1); FINANCIAL
                                  MAN. SPEC (1); PRINCIPAL
                                  ECONOMIST (1); SR PROCUREMENT
                                  ENGIN. (1); CONSULTANT (1)
           05/20/2002        a    MISSION LEADER (1); PARK
                                  MANAGEMENT & BlOD (1); GENDER
                                  ISSUES (1); SOCIAL DEV ISSUES (4);
                                  FORESTRYCONSULTANT (1)
           11/01/2002       11    MISSION LEADER (1); ENVIRONMENT
                                  SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL DEV
                                  SPECIALIST (3); NATURAL RES
                                  SPECIALIST (1); FORESTRY
                                  SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                  SPECIALIST (1); PROCUREMENT
                                  SPECIALIST (1); CONSULTANT
                                  FORESTRY (1); SOCIAL DEV (1)
           05/06/2003        a    MISSION LEADER (1); SOCIAL DEV
                                  SPECIALIST (4); BIODIVERSITY SPEC.
                                  (1); CONSULTANT FORESTRY (1);
                                  SOCIAL DEV (1)
           12/26/2003   10        MISSION LEADER (1); SOCIAL DEV
                                  SPECIALISTS (3); BIODIVERSITY
                                 SPECIALIST (1); FORESTRY
                                 SPECIALIST (1); FORESTRY
                                 CONSULTANT (1); FINANCIAL
                                 MANAGEMENTSPECIALIST (1);
                                 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                 CONSULTANT (1);PROGRAM
                                 SUPPORT (1)
           06/30/2004        9   MISSION LEADER (1); SOCIAL
                                 DEVELOPMENTSPECIALISTS (2);
                                 BIODIVERSITYSPECIALISTS (1);
                                 FORESTRYSPECIALIST (1);
                                 FORESTRYCONSULTANT (1);
                                 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                 SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                 MANAGEMENTCONSULTANT (1);
                                 PROGRAMSUPPORT (1).
ICR                          2  SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT SPECIALISTS
           06/30/2004           (1);BIODIVERSITYSPECIALISTS (I);,

                             20                              Annex A


Other ProjectData
Borrower/ExecutingAgency:
FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
Operation                     Credit no.    Amount        Board date
                                          (US$ million)


 None

                                                   21                                  Annex B


Annex B. India Reserve Profiles

                                Ranthambore Tiger Reserve

         Ranthambore Tiger Reserve (RTR), notifiedas a National Park in 1980, is located on
the lefibank o fthe ChambalRiver inthe state o f Rajasthan. It supports rich biodiversity,
linking a chaino fwildlife sanctuaries, andis a watershed for many reservoirs and other
impoundments- a lifeline for localpeople; it i s also o f scenic, geological, archeological and
cultural significance. However, the Reserve is an "ecological island" subject to heavy
pressures from the neighboring332 villages o f some 200,000 people and 100,000 cattle.
Poachinghas beenmarkedly reduced duringthe last few years and domestic livestock
grazing and fuel wood extractioni s beingprogressivelycontrolled alongportions o f the
Reserve boundary largely through construction o f a highwall. The susceptibility o f
                                                                      '
domestic cattle to diseaseposes a risk to Reserve mammals as it does to the productivity o f
herders.

         UnderIEDP,the Reserve's management saw improvement to infrastructure
(headquarters facilities, silvipastural plantations, boundary demarcation and training o f staff)
after initial delay. Village ecodevelopment activities have included construction of water
harvestingfacilities, crop protectionwalls and roads, andprovision o f LPG. Micro planning
through ecodevelopment committees (EDCs) and other arrangementshave produced
substantivegains at some locations leadingto risingwater tables for wells andmoisteningo f
agricultural land andreduced demand for fuel wood. Environmentalawareness and
education for the RTR committees and ecodevelopment sites was initiatedbut the momentum
has not beensustained -partly because o f competingpriorities o fPA staff and the marginal
involvement o fthe few localNGOs. Monitoring o f faunal populations i s beingconducted
withinthe Reserve though somewhat piecemeal inthe absenceofa strategic plan. A census
o fkey mammals is undertaken regularlybut a comprehensive approach to accurately
assessing trends remains elusive; meantime, poor infrastructureand field restrictions impair
basic conservation research. Nothing o f the income from hotels goes to the Reserve nor are
entrance fees (Rs 2 per person from 100,000 visitors per year) ploughedback for Reserve
management despite provisions o f some 10 years standingby the GoR.

         The Mission found improvements to habitat protectionmostly following a shift inthe
attitudes o f surrounding communities to the Reserve, with mutual gains beingrealized
through livelihood security, particularly via sustained water supplies. However, given lack
o f funding for continuatiodexpansiono f ecodevelopment activities following completion of
the project, there i s a real danger that the communities will revert to usingReserve resources,
especially inlight o f the highrate o f unemployment (80% insome villages visited) and
vulnerability o f the area to drought. On the latter, it is recognized that the development of a
water resources management planfor the Reserve and adjoining landscape could help
mobilize needed financial andhumanresources to offset insufficiencies inecodevelopment
support.



1.Criticizedby somebecause ofits constraints onthe gene flow betweentiger populations.

                                                   22                                   Annex B


         I t is perhaps inthe areas o f institutionaland financial sustainability that one finds
RTRat its weakest. Micro planningsought to protectReserve resources throughinvestments
in62 ofthe 100targeted EDCs; however, only 50% oftheseEDCsremain active andsome
o f the excluded villages and others holda grudge against Reserve Management and continue
to exploit Reserve resources. The current relationshipbetweenthe Reserve and the
panchayats engenders tensions over such matters as use o f drinking water and the dedication
o f EDC funds for protectiono f the Reserve inrelation to wider landscape development
needs.

         The requirement o f a 25% contribution by local communities for ecodevelopment
investments remains another source o f tension -- the villagers feeling it to be an unreasonable
burdenon the poorest, the GoR claimingthe villages shouldbemoreproactive. [Incontrast,
the villagers at Periyar and possibly other sites under the project havebeen bothproactive
and creative inthe use o f such resources]. No explicit guidelines are available and the
missionheard that some 33 villages have been unable to use these resources for some two
years. There have also been problems with Village Development Funds(VDFs) using
resources as revolving funds for Self-Help Groups (SHGs) and integrating EDC activities in
line departments and the panchayats. Empowerment o fwomen's groups remains partial and
there i s needto help mainstream them more effectively inReserve management. With the
exception o f some women's organizations and the Tiger Foundation, there are no NGOs
directly involved inReserve conservation. Perhaps the most vexing issue concerns tourism
inside andoutside the Reserve. Management o ftourism inthe Reserve bythe Tourism
Departmenthasbeen chargedwith corruption, nepotism anddestructive impactson the
Reserve's fauna, particularly tigers. Over 300 hotels inRanthambore are considered to
derive substantial benefits from the Reserve (estimated at Rs21to 50 crore) yet do not
provide any financial support for its operations or the livelihood o f the neighboringvillages
(especially when draining their critical ground water supplies). Equally, few attempts are
beingmade bythe hotels to finance the development o fcrafts or employ local people or use
localresources, e.g., food supplies. Finally, the illegal occupancy o fhotels inthe Reserve's
bufferzone -often on grazingland-invokedintense anger o f localpeople andresultedin
the recent destruction o f 26 hotelsby local authorities following the applicationregulations
(90 B Revenue Law) regardingthe buildingo ftourist infrastructure in and around PAS;this
issue i s expected to be revisitedinmany other PA locations inthe near future).

         Clearly under IEDPsome benefits accrued to the Reserve and local communities -
control o f illegal grazing, decline inpoaching, reductioninillegal use o f trees for fuel wood
and other resources and encroachment on the Reserve and assured sustainability o fwater
resources. EDC have villages benefitedfrom infrastructureimprovements (roads, drinking
water facilities, buildings, etc.) along with the constructiono f crop protectionwalls and
enhancedrecharge o f ground water. However, several matters threaten these
accomplishments: inadequate staffing levels and insufficiently definedresponsibilities,
training and the slow development o fresearch and monitoring and environmental education
awareness activities. Lastly, relocationo f villages has provenproblematic; to date 61
families have been resettled, but 36 await the allocation o f "good land"; some families have
been relocated on degraded forestland as no revenue land i s available.

                                                23                                  Annex B


        For the immediate future, a number o fmajor problems requireresolution following
completion of the IEDP. Principal among these is: the ability to sustain the financial and
institutional stability of the EDCs (and inclusion o f remaining villages targeted under the
project), the uncertain resource base o fthe Reserve (no entrance fees or tourism revenue
beingtapped for Reserve use), the tense relationships betweensome villages around the
Reserve andthe panchayats andthe absenceo fplanningarrangements for water and other
resources inthe Reserve andthe wider landscape. The Bank and other parties have been
encouraging the GoR to formulate and enact a law allowing a 2-5% ecotax on tourism and
use part of the revenue for Reserve management and community development but there are
no signs o f action. Equally, the GoR has been slow inestablishing vocational programsto
enhance eco-friendly activities insuch areas as fisheries, poultry and dairy farming in
consultationwith Reserve authorities and local communities.

                                   Periyar Tiger Reserve

        This Reserve, established in 1978 inthe state Kerala, i s located inthe southern
WesternGats andis notable for its scenic beauty, religion-cultural heritage and arich
biological diversity being one o f India's `hot spots' supportingrare, endangeredand endemic
species o ftropical rainforest flora and fauna. It also generates considerable tourist revenue,
i s a major provider o fwater for irrigation, domestic needs and power generation inTamil
Nadu and is the source o fthe Periyar, Pamba andAzhutha Rivers. Five tribal groups live
within and inthe peripheryo fthe Reserve. The Reserve is beingconsidered for elevationo f a
National Park andthe effectiveness o f its management i s widely recognizedas a model for
adoption inother parts o f India andthe world.

        A numbero fthreats continue to disturb the Reserve: some poaching inthe interior
areas; the pressures o f 50 lakhpilgrims visitingthe Sabarimala shrine within a two month
period andthe increasing visitors; and stress on PTR's biological resources from fringe
villages and tea estates along the Tamil Naduborder. Other threats involve sandalwood
smugglingand cattle grazing; unemployment inmany o fthe surroundingvillages remains at
60%.

Underthe IEDP, the Government ofKerala (GOK) moved substantively early on to establish
flexible institutionalmechanisms through formation o f ecodeveloment committees (EDCs),
focused Self- Help Groups (SHGs) andprovision o frevolving funds and their auditing
through the General Body o f EDCs. A state level coordination committee and a PA
implementationcommittee were empowered to coordinate efforts, take informed decisions
andproactive actions; further, the selection andposting ofqualifiedleadofficers for
extended periods and their support by contract staff provideddurable underpinningsto the
project.

        Staff training, patrolling camps, upgraded trek paths has contributedto enhanced PA
management and environmental education and awareness campaigns and research and
monitoringhave seenmajor improvements. Convertingpoachers and other trespassers into
eco-tourism guides has reduced poaching and ecodeveloment has involved
communityhdividual activities intribal settlements andmarginal, backward and fringe area

                                                        24                                      Annex B


communities; inaddition, conservation oriented activities have involvedjoint patrolling (in
some cases by women volunteers), soil conservation andreduced crop loss, fuel wood use,
cattle grazing and destruction o f indigenous fish and other fauna. Some EDC activities have
been linkedto developmental initiatives supported by the panchayats and, to a limited extent,
by NGOs. There has also beena deliberate effort to promote "homestead tourism" inthe
landscape around the Reserve.

          The above efforts have addressedpressures andthreats from the Reserve's fringes,
especially inKeralaby extendingmanagement zoning for inclusion o fhabitats outside the
Reserve's boundaries andproscribingmanagement requirements for pilgrimages and
tourism. Nonetheless, such an extension remains somewhat uncertain, given no control by
PA management; equally, negative impacts from tea estate workers inTamil Nadupose
threats as long as the proposed declaration o fthe Megahamalai area as a sanctuary remains
outstanding.

         A clear strengthofthe IEDPinPTRwas effective transparency and equity inEDC
functioning and allied capacity building. Conservationvalues were mainstreamed and a
strategy guided ecodevelopment activities throughout implementation. The Periyar
Foundationwas formed to sustain ecodevelopment as a counter to the inefficiency of the PA
budget and appears to be fbnctioning well. Progress awaits recognition o f the EDCs as
institutions under the Kerala Forest Rules and linkage o f EDC activities with local
government. Of some concern is the danger that the Foundation and the PA authorities may
not maintaintransparency and sufficient dialogue with women's groups, tribals and other
communities.

         The inclusiono fthepoor andwomen from the outset andtargeted income generating
activities (including tourism and farming for tribals) supported by short term credits gave
credence to the objectives of the IEDPand fostered productive and transparent relationships
between the PA and concerned village communities. A major challenge has beento sustain
these gains following the project's completion two years ago. Financehas beenmade
available to the EDCs as CDFs with the Periyar Foundation (PF) providing long-term
sustainability. It i s this resource mobilization arrangement that has attracted national
attention for possible applications inother PAS.'

         The PCR and anindependent study noted the successes and failures o f the PTR
component. Principal successes includedimproved P A planning andprotection, a
transformed tourism policy, habitat recovery, development o f social capital amongthe very
poor and enhanced awareness o f PA values and the creation o f the EDC program. The
Mission supports this view and i s impressed by the investment insocial capital and the
attainment o f social cohesion and enhanced socio-economic conditions; nonetheless a
number o f areas require improvement ifthese gains are to be sustained over the longer term.
These include: involvement o f additional villages inEDC activities, especially on the Tamil
Naduboundary o f the Reserve where there are sizeable estates; fundingmechanisms to offset

2. Park fees are currently allocated as follows: OfRs 300 charged to foreigners Rs 200 goes to the GO1and Rs
100 to the Periyar Foundation; o f Rs 25 charged to residents Rs 15 goes to the GO1and Rs 10to the Periyar
Foundation.

                                               25                                 Annex B


fluctuating prices o f agriculturalproducts farmed by the EDCs (andthe re-emergence of
moneylenders andconsequent increasedpressures onthe Reserve and areawide natural
resources); streamlining the accounting system for EDCs; and assuredtransparency in
working arrangements betweenhired local staffEDCs andPA andPeriyar Foundationstaff.
The Foundationrecognizes the need for such actions and has incorporatedmany infuture
work plans.It also accepts the core challenge o fmaintaining social gains for the protectiono f
the Reservewhile ensuring that revenues are balancedbetween conservationand area
development needs andnot subject to elite capture.

