E-236 VOL. 3
GOVERNMENT OF THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS
ROADS AND ROAD TRANSPORT DIVISION
ROADS AND HIGHWAYS DEPARTMENT
FEEDER ROADS TYPE A (RRMP III)
DRAFT ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
MARCH - 1998
L.G. MOUCHEL AND PARTNERS LTD., U.K.
in association with
BECA WORLEY INTERNATIONAL, NEW ZEALAND
TRANSROUTE INTERNATIONAL, FRANCE
ENGINEERING SCIENCE LTD., BANGLADESH






Feeder Roads Type A Proiect                                    Ens ironmenial Nianagement Plan
TABLE OF CONTENTS - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
Page
Executive Summary                                                            i
1.    INTRODUCTION                                                                   1
1.1    Background                                                             I
1.2    Summary of the Project                                                 I
1.3    Summary of the Project Environmental Setting                           4
1.4    Approach to Environmental Management and Monitoring                    5
2.   OVERVIEW OF IMPACTS AND MITIGATION MEASURES                                     6
2.1    Scoping                                                                6
2.2    Potentially Significant Impacts and Mitigation Measures               10
2.2.1  Pre-construction Phase                                         10
2.2.2  Construction Phase                                             11
2.2.3   Operational Phase                                             13
2.2.4  Residual Impacts                   .                           13
3.   MAJOR MITIGATION PROGRAMMES                                                    15
3.1   Introduction                                                           15
3.2    Tree Planting                                                         16
3.2.1   General Considerations                                        16
3.2.2  Approach to the Programme     -                                17
3.3    Rehabilitation of Borrow Pits                                         21
3.3.1   General Considerations                                        21
3.3.2  Reinstatement for Agriculture                                  23
3.3.3  Rehabilitation as Fish Ponds                                   25
4.     ORGANISATIONAL ASPECTS                                                       28
4.1    Management Framework and Overview of Responsibilities                 28
4.2    Specific Environmental Management Activities and Responsibilities     30
4.2.1  Pre-construction Phase                                         30
4.2.2  Construction Phase                                             31
4.2.3   Operational Phase   -                                         32
4.2.4  Summary of Management Measures and Responsibilities            32
4.3   Institutional Strengthening                                            34
5.    IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE                                                       35
5.1    Project Implementation Schedule                                       35
5.2    Environmental Management Implementation Schedule                      35



Feeder Roads Type A Project                                     Environmental Management Plan
6.   ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND REPORTING                                          37
6.1    General Considerations                                                 37
6.2    Pre-construction Monitoring                                            37
6.3    Construction Monitoring                                                38
6.4    Operational Phase Monitoring                                           39
6.5   Independent Review Monitoring                                           40
7.     MITIGATION AND MONITORING COSTS                                               41
7.1    General Considerations                                                 41
7.2    Borrow Pit Programme Management                                        41
7.3    Support to NGO Managers                                                42
7.4    Costs of Independent Environmental Review                              43
Appendix I   References
Appendix 2    RHD Tree Planting Guidelines



Abbreviations used in the text
CCDB          Christian Commission for Development in Bangladesh
CSMC          Construction Supervision and Monitoring Consultant
DC            District Gommissioner
EA            Environmental Assessfnent
EIA           Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP           Environmental Management Plan
EP            Entitled Person
ER            Engineer's Representative
FRA           Feeder road Type A-
FRB           Feeder road Type B
IBRD          Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
LCS           Labour Contracting Society
LGED          Local Government Engineering Department
NGO           Non-Governmental Organisation
OD            Operational Directive
PAH           Project-Affected-Household
PAP           Project-Affected Person
PCWD          Project Civil Works Director
PIO           Project Implementation Office
RAP           Resettlement Action Plan
RE            Resident Engineer
RHD           Roads and Highways Department
RRMIMP2    Rural Roads & Markets Improvement and Maintenance Project II
RRMP3         Third Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
SEP           Site Environmental Plan
TA            Technical Assistance






Feeder Roads TF pe A Project                                    Ens tronrnerial Nlanagemeni Plan
Executive Summary
This Environmental Management Plan (EMP) forms part of the environmental documentation for the
Feeder Roads Type A (FRA) component of the Third Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
(RRMP3) in Bangladesh and has been prepared in accordance with IBRD guidelines.
Social and socio-economic impacts, mitigation and management measures associated with the
official land acquisition process are not considered in detail, as these matters will be dealt with in the
consolidated RRMP3 Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) which is currently under preparation.
However, in the interests of completeness, these matters are briefly referred to where appropriate.
The Project
The FRA project will comprise rehabilitation and maintenance works to approximately 500 km of
road sections which are all located in districts lying to the west of the Brahmaputra - Jamuna -
Meghna river. The principal components of the works will include (as necessary on each section):
*  widening of embankments to achieve the required minimum crest width of 7.4m to accommodate
a 3.2m carriageway with 1.5m sealed shoulders and 0.6m earth shoulders on either side
flattening of side slopes to 1:2 v:h to achieve stability, and provision of erosion protection
*  raising of embankment crest levels to allow all-weather use in floods up to a I in 10 year event
*  limited construction of new embankments, in situations where there is a need for minor
realignment to improve sight distances or to reduce the radius of curvature on sharp bends in the
interests of road safety and suitability for higher vehicle speeds, or where there is effectively no
existing embankment, or where existing embankments are threatened by river erosion
*  pavement improvements
*  rehabilitation and/or replacement of existing culverts and bridges
*  construction of new culverts and bridges
On all sections within the project, embankment and pavement improvements will form the bulk of
the works.
The civil works will be carried out under a number of construction contracts, let under national
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to RHD and the Bank. Within each year of the three-year
construction programme, several contracts will be executed concurrently. Construction is expected
to be relatively labour-intensive, with approximately 25% of the total construction cost of the works
being labour-related.
Project Environmental Setting
All the sections of road included in the overall project lie iii flat areas of the western parts of
Bangladesh, either within the floodplains or the delta lands of the Brahmaputra-Ganges-Jamuna-
Meghna river system. Land use is dominated by smallholder subsistence farming centred on the
production of rice, although a wide range of other crops are also grown.
There are no areas of high ecological value, such as natural forest, mangroves or undisturbed
wetlands, along or in the immediate vicinity of any of the project roads, all of which pass through
lands which have been heavily modified by man in connection with agricultural development.
Impacts and Mitigation Measures
There is a general similarity in the environmental settings of all road sections within the overall
project and, although there will be some variation between sections in terms of the nature and scale
of the improvement works, these too are broadly comparable. As a result, there are no major
differences between sections in terms of potential environmental impact.
Page i



Feeder Roads Type A Proiect                                     Ens ironmental MNanagement Plan
All impacts are such that they can be controlled to an acceptably low level through the adoption of
suitable mitigation measures. Residual impact is expected to be low in all cases, providing that the
specified mitigation measures are fully adopted.
The potential impacts on which the environmental rnanagement is focused, and the mitigation
/enhancement measures which will be adopted are outlined below.
Pre-construction phase
During the pre-construction phase, significant adverse potential impacts could arise from the need for
acquisition of land and property in order to accommodate the proposed works; a major part of which
will comprise embankment widening. Effects on family wealth and incomes have the greatest
potential significance. Lesser impacts will include inducement of uncertainties amongst the local
population, regarding various aspects of the land acquisition process, which disturb family life and
can promote social unrest, and problems associated with stimulation of new construction solely with
the aim of fraudulently obtaining compensation.
Considerable effort has been expended by the Phase I design consultants to minimise the area of land
which needs to be acquired in connection with the works, since this is the most effective mitigation
measure. It is expected that this approach will continue to be adopted in relation to Phase 2 design.
Nevertheless, approximately 210ha of land will need to be acquired for the overall project, of which
about three quarters is expected to be agricultural land and the remainder homestead land. In total,
some 21,300 households are expected to be directly affected by the land acquisition process; an
average of 42 households/km.
Although the number of PAHs is very high, it should be recognised that, for the majority, the extent
of impact is expected to be marginal, since only a small proportion of an individual's landholding is
likely to be affected by land acquisition. Analogy with very similar FRB projects suggests that about
two-thirds of affected households will lose less than 5'%o of their holding, 87% less than 10%, and
only 1.5% more than 20%.
In the case of homestead land, it seems unlikely that acquisition of a narrow strip will result in the
need for demolition of houses and/or relocation, since nmost are set back from existing road margins
by at least 5-6m, and in many cases, by far greater distances. The high level of agricultural
landholding fragmentation is expected to result in land acquisition having only marginal effects on
all but the smallest landholders, sharecroppers, agricultural labourers, and the relatively few people
who rent agricultural land.
Payment of compensation for acquired land and other assets is expected to reduce the financial
effects on PAHs to an acceptably low level, provided ithat the compensation paid truly reflects the
financial losses- incurred. Support to PAHs, in various iForms including income-restoration
programmes, will be provided under the RRMP3 RAP programme, which will include elements
relating to families, individuals and groups who are both directly and indirectly affected by the land
acquisition process.
The probiem of community uncertainties regarding land acquisition will be dealt with by the NGO
appointed by RHD to oversee and assist with RAP implementation, who will be responsible for
promoting (in conjunction with the local authorities, and as an integral part of. implementation of the
RAP) an information dissemination programme to those likely to be affected, primarily on a
community basis, but witf individual assistance to those families who require it.
Page ii



Feeder Roads Type A Proicct                                     Environmental Ntanagement Plan
The NGO will also be responsible for preparing a dated photographic or video record of the land to
be acquired, immediately before commencement of the land acquisition process, whose existence
will be publicised, and which will be used as a means of minimising and refuting fraudulent
compensation claims relating to the recent erection of structures.
Construction phase
Employment opportunities
Beneficial impact will arise from employment opportunities for local people with contractors. In
order to enhance this aspect, the construction contracts will include clauses to require the contractors
to maximise local hire of labour; to carry out at least 25% of the works (as measured by contract
value) by hand labour; to take positive steps to recruit women, the poor and destitute and the landless
as labour; and to ensure that at least 30% of the unskilled labour force employed at any one time is
female.
Loss of roadside trees
Loss of roadside trees resulting from the need for clearance to accommodate embankment raising and
widening works (mainly in connection with the latter) and pavement improvements is a major
adverse potential impact affecting all sections. Apart from their aesthetic value, the trees provide an
important source of fuel and/or income for the poorest sections of the community, and in particular
for poor women.
Various engineering options to reduce the need for felling were investigated, but none were found to
be feasible. The extent of loss cannot be quantified at present, but it is clear that on nearly all lengths
of road which traverse open agricultural land, most, if not all, the existing trees on embankments will
have to be felled. In most cases, the trees are relatively young, having been planted in the last 6-10
years, and the number of mature trees affected will be relatively low. In locations where large banyani
trees are located close to existing road margins, embankment works have been designed so as to
avoid the need for felling, since these trees have high cultural significance.
Mitigation will take the form of a major tree-planting programme which will result in a net gain in
the numbers of roadside trees, and will provide benefits in terms of employment for the most
disadvantaged sections of local communities.
Tree planting will be carried out in broad conformity with the RHD Arboricultural Unit guidelines.
Approximately 2000 trees/km will be planted on average. Where embankments are low, two rows
will be planted on each side, with three rows on higher embankments. Provision will be made for
protecting young trees against depredation by livestock, particularly by goats. Bamboo, or a similar
type of fencing is preferred to establishment of hedges compTrising compact, fast-growing bushes
with a low growth habit, since protection is needed immediately after planting, and hedges will not
provide immediate protection.
Groups of the poor, destitute and landless (with particular emphasis on participation by women), will
be organised by an experienced NGO, to raise and plant the trees and subsequently to maintain them.
The groups then share the benefits of the planting scheme as trees are harvested. Preliminary
assessment suggests that approximately 40 groups will need to be established in connection with
implementation of each year's planting programme to be executed over a period of 3 years. Short-
term (about 12 months) paid work will benefit approximately 400 families per year. Additional and
longer-term benefits may arise if some of the scheme participants can be encouraged to use skills
learned in project tree-raising to set up their own home-based small-scale businesses.
Page iii



Feeder Roads Ty pe A Project                                    En% ironmental Nlanagement I'lan
Land productivity loss associated with borrow pits
Long-term loss of productivity of land developed for borrow pits also constitutes a major adverse
potential impact. Large quantities of borrow material will be required in connection wvith
embankment works on all sections within the project. Preliminary estimates suggest that, on average,
I 0,000m3/km will be required. If the usual shallow side-borrow practices of local contractors were to
be permitted, this could adversely affect the productivity of approximately 500ha of agricultural land
in total, through the removal of fertile topsoil coupled with worsening of drainage conditions
resulting from a lowering of ground level.
Government will not acquire the land needed for borrow pits, and agreement will have to be reached
between contractors and private landowners regarding lease fees. There is a high probability that
payments under lease agreements would fail to provide adequate compensation for productivity loss.
Primary mitigation has involved minimisation of borrow requirements through careful engineering
design, and in particular, through restricting new embankment construction, raising and widening to
lengths where it is absolutely necessary on sound engineering grounds.
Secondary mitigation focuses on three elements:
* introduction of clauses into the construction contracts which forbid extensive shallow borrow
practices (except in exceptional circumstances), require pits to be spaced at not less than 1.5km
intervals, and make provision for safeguarding the financial interest of landowners, mainly
through requiring lease agreements to cover the nature and extent of post-use reinstatement works
- provision of advice to landowners concerning the likely eiFfects of borrow pit (and associated
access track) development on their land, and the options regarding post-use reinstatement, so that
appropriate lease agreement terms can be negotiated with contractors
- implementation of a major technical assistance programme to landowners, with the prime
objective of offsetting income losses resulting from reduced agricultural productivity, through the
adoption of new or amended agricultural practices on affected land, increasing productivity on an
owner's unaffected land, or the development of managed fish ponds
In the last two respects, it is proposed that the assistance should be planned, coordinated and partially
provided through an experienced national NGO, supported by local NGOs, particularly in relation to
the fish pond element. Landowners who do not wish to develop and operate fish ponds on their own
will be encouraged to lease the borrow pits for pond development by local groups comprising the
poor and landless, with technical and management suppcort from a local NGO.
Erosion of embankments
All embankment materials are inherently easily erodible, either by rainfall runoff or wave action
during flood episodes. In the long term, both embankment and pavement integrity become
threatened, with consequent adverse effects on trafficability of the road and a reduction in the social,
socio-economic and economic benefits arising from project implementation.
Embankment erosion will be reduced to acceptably low levels by the incorporation of clauses in the
specifications for the establishment of full vegetation cover on completion of the earthworks and, in
the case of wave erosion, the incorporation of suitable bank protection measures in the project
designs. Provided that routine inspections are carried out to identify any embankment sections where
erosion is taking place, and effective and timely remedial actions are implemented, embankment and
pavement integrity will be preserved in the long term.
Page iv



Feeder Roads Type A Project                                     En\ ironmental Nlanaeement Plan
Other construction impacts
A number of impacts, which are associated with general construction activities are anticipated. Most
are short-term, reversible impacts. They include the following:
* Friction between imported work-ers and the local population
* Increased pressure on local services; particularly medical facilities
* Water pollution from sanitary and other wastes and spillages
* Competition for water resources with other users
* Fuelwood/forest depletion through use in contractors' camp facilities, tar boilers, brick kilns etc
* Reduction of land use options for worksites and base camp areas if not properly cleared on
completion of the works
* Overloading of road pavement and structures on mobilisation/demobilisation of heavy plant, and
by general haulage traffic
* Increased traffic congestion and road safety problems associated with construction traffic
* Interference with phone and electricity lines
* Interruption to navigation caused by in-river construction works
* Air pollution from hot-mix plants
All the above will be mitigated and reduced to acceptable levels through the inclusion of appropriate
clauses in the construction contracts and enforcement during the construction period.
Operational phase
The potentially significant impacts during the operational phase are:
* Major improvements in local trade and communications, and a reduction in transport costs, to the
benefit of all communities on both the improved sections of road and connecting roads.
- Impedance to boat traffic on navigable waterways resulting from inadequate clearance at new or
replacement bridges.
Continued long-term enjoyment of the benefits arising from the improved roads will only be possible
if effective routine and periodic maintenance is carried out. Otherwise, the condition of the roads and
associated structures will gradually deteriorate to the pre-project state. The matter of road
maintenance is to be addressed under another component of the RRMP3 project, and therefore is not
considered further in this Environmental Management Plan.
The design of all bridges has taken into account the need for adequate soffit and lateral clearance
under flood conditions, according to the requirements for each class of navig-able waterway.
Consequently, no impact is anticipated in this respect.
Organisational aspects
The RRMP3 project will be managed and implemented by RHD and its various sections and zonal
offices under the Chief Engineer. High level management and coordination functions for individual
components of the overall RRMP3 project will be provided through a Project Implementation Office
(PIO) in Dhaka, headed by the Project Civil Works Director (PCWD).
The PCWD in his role as the 'Engineer', as defined in the construction contracts, will have primary
responsibility for management and coordination of all matters relating to construction supervision
and monitoring, including environmental manag,ement. He will be advised and assisted in his
management functions by a joint venture of foreign and local consultants (the construction
supervision and monitoring consultants - CSMC), who will be responsible for day-to-day supervision
and monitoring.
Page v



Feeder Roads Ty pe A Project                                    Enx ironmental Mianagement Plan
The CSMC Team Leader will be designated as 'Engineer's Representative'. and will be the primary
linkage between RHD and the consultants at project (Dhaka) level. He and his support staff will be
responsible for construction supervision and monitoring at site level, and wvill have environmental
management responsibilities in this respect.
The CSMC team will include a part-time expatriate Environmental Specialist, whose responsibilities
will include provision of advice and assistance to the consultants' Team Leader and his engineering
staff on environmental matters, including those specifically involved in the implementation of
environmental management functions.
In his more general role as overall manager and coordinator of the rRA project; the PCWD will also
have other high level responsibilities and functions, which wvill cover aspects of environmental
management as well as implementation of the RAP. Since the NGOs responsible for planning and
management of the tree planting and borrow pit restoration programmes will be appointed by, and
will report directly to RHD, the PCWD will also have primary responsibility for these aspects of
environmental management, although the NGOs themnselves will be responsible for day-to-day
management of their mitigation programmes.
Implementation schedule
An environmental management implementation schedule has been prepared which is fully
coordinated and integrated with the preliminary project implementation schedule. This indicates all
key dates by which specified actions should take place by specified bodies, if efficient
implementation of the EMP is to be achieved.
Environmental monitoring
Monitoring during the pre-construction phase of the project will be concerned with checking that the
project designs and specifications incorporate appropriate measures to minimise negative impacts
and to enhance beneficial impacts, and that appropriate environmental protection clauses have been
included in the contract documents to allow control of actions by the contractors which are
potentially damaging to the environment. This will be the responsibility of the CSMC Team Leader,
supported by his Environmental Engineer.
Environmental monitoring during the construction phase will cornprise four groups of activities:
. review of the contractors' Site Environmental Plans, method statements and temporary works
designs to ensure that environmental protection measures specified in the contract documents
have been given due consideration and, when implemented, will provide an acceptable level of
impact control
. systematic observation on a day-to-day basis of alll site activities and the contractors' offsite
facilities such as base camps and borrow areas, as a check that the contract requirements relating
to environmental matters are in fact being complied with, and that no unforeseen impacts are
occurring
• certification of site clearance, on completion of the works
* monitoring related to the implementation of the tree-planting and borrow pit restoration
programmes
The first three activities will be fully integrated with other construction supervision and monitoring
activities carried out by CSMC. Primary responsibility for ensuring that an adequate level of
monitoring is carried out in relation to these will lie with the Engineer and the Engineer's
Page vi



Feeder Roads Type A Project                                     En\ ironmental Management l'ian
Representative, as part of their duties connected with controlling site activities. Actual monitoring
will be carried out by site staff from CSMC, under the direction of the Resident Engineers
responsible for each site. Technical support in terms of environmental expertise will be provided
CSMC Environmental Engineer during his periodic visits to the sites.
Environmental inspection checklists for site use will be developed by the CSMC Environmental
Engineer in collaboration with the ER and REs, prior to the commencement of construction, so as to
facilitate systematic monitoring and recording. The Environmental Engineer will be responsible for
providing basic training in the management and monitoring of environmental aspects to REs and site
staff, to be carried out prior to the commencement of construction, and on a refresher basis during
construction as required.
All environmental monitoring records will be reviewed initially, as they are received at the CSMC
site offices by the REs concerned, who will decide on the appropriate course of action to be taken in
cases where unsatisfactory reports are received. In the case of relatively minor matters, advice to the
contractor on the need for remedial action may suffice, but in all serious cases, the ER will be
informed without delay, who will either recommend to the Engineer an appropriate course of action,
or will issue instructions to contractors to take remedial action, if his delegated powers allow him to
do this.
Since the management and monitoring systems will all be effectively under the control of the project
proponent, it is recommended that an independent environmental review should be carried out
approximately 7 months into the first year's construction programme, so as to provide a fully
independent assessment of the environmental performance of the adopted impact control measures
and procedures.
Environmental management and monitoring costs
Many of the costs associated with implementation of the Environmental Management Plan have
already been, or will shortly be, included in the project budget, as an integral part of specific cost
items.
The costs of the borrow pit reinstatement programme (excluding managing/coordinating NGO costs)
will be met from private sources (lease payments and/or micro-credit arrangements) and, as such,
should not be included in the project budget.
Incremental costs associated with implementing the EMP, which are not provided for under other
items in the project budget are:
* NGO costs related to the provision of planning and implementation management/coordination
services for the borrow pit reinstatement programmes (US$ 637,200)
* costs of provision of technical support to the planning/coordinating NGOs for both the tree
planting and borrow pit programmes (US$ 310,500)
* costs of implementing an independent environmental review (US$ 20,400)
In view of the importance of the tree planting and borrow pit programmes to minimisation of two of
the three key adverse impacts of the project, and therefore to overall environmental performance,
together with the desirability of having a completely independent environmental review during the
construction phase, it is proposed that the costs of the above items should be met wholly by the Bank.
Page vii






Feeder Roads Ty pe A Project                                 Environmental Manaeement Plan
SECTION 1
INTRODUCTION
1.1    Background
This Environmental Management Plan (EMP) forms part of the environmental documentation for the
Feeder Roads Type A (FRA) component of the Third Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
(RRMP3) in Bangladesh. It has been prepared in accordance with IBRD guidelines and follows on
from:
* a sectoral EIA (SEIA), which was developed in the early stages of project preparation, when
prioritisation studies were still underway, and the choice of road sections which would ultimately
be included in the project had not been made (Mouchel 1997)
* an environmental review (ER) of the road sections selected for inclusion in the overall FRA
component, which was carried out in order to establish whether or not project implementation
would give rise to unacceptable adverse environmental impacts on any of the sections (Mouchel
1998)
In this EMP, social and socio-economic impacts, mitigation and management measures associated
with the official land acquisition process are not considered in detail, as these matters are dealt with
in the consolidated RRMP3 Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). However, in the interests of
completeness, these matters are briefly referred to where appropriate.
In general, impacts and associated mitigation measures are also not described in detail: these matters
having been dealt with at some length in the SEIA.
1.2    Summary of the Project
The FRA project will comprise rehabilitation and maintenance works to approximately 500 km of
road sections (Table 1.2), which are all located in districts lying to the west of the Brahmaputra -
Jamuna - Meghna river (Figures 1 .2a & b, at the end of this section).
Land acquisition will be carried out under the standard procedures provided for by Bangladesh law,
and in a manner which is acceptable to the Bank. An NGO will be appointed to oversee and monitor
the land acquisition and compensation process, under arrangements which will be set out in the RAP.
The NGO will also be responsible for implementing certain'aspects of the RAP which, in broad
terms, are related to the provision of support to the various categories of Project Affected
Households/Persons (PAHs/PAPs). All land acquisition and payment of compensation (with the
exception of disputed compensation) will be completed prior to the commencement of works on each
section.
It is anticipated that approximately 210ha of privately-owned land will have to be acquired to
accommodate the project permanent works, and that some 21,300 families (PAHs) will lose part of
their landholding (Table 1.2).
The principal components of the works will include (as necessary on each section):
* widening of embankments to achieve the required minimum crest width of 7.4m to accommodate
a 3.2m carriageway with l.5m sealed shoulders and 0.6m earth shoulders on either side
flattening of side slopes to 1:2 v:h to achieve stability, and provision of erosion protection
*  raising of embankment crest levels to allow all-weather use in floods up to a 1 in 1O year event
Page I



Feeder Roads Ty pe A Project                                    Environmental Nlanagement Plan
*  limited construction of new embankments, in situations where there is a need for minor
realignment to improve sight distances or to reduce the radius of curvature on sharp bends in the
interests of road safety and suitability for higher vehicle speeds, or where there is effectively no
existing embankment, or where existing embankments are threatened by river erosion
* pavement improvements
*  rehabilitation and/or replacement of existing culverts and bridges
*  construction of new culverts and bridges
On all sections within the project, embankment and pavement improvements will form the bulk of
the works.
The embankment works will require large quantities of fill material, which will be obtained by
contractors from new borrow pits, developed in convenient locations relatively close to the existing
embankments. No excavation from existing side-borrow pits wi:ll be permitted for reasons relating to
embankment stability. The contractors will be responsible for making their own arrangements with
private landowners for temporary use of their land as borrow areas. Government will not acquire the
land needed for borrow pit development.
Pavement sub-base and base layers will be of crushed brick mixed with sand. Wherever possible,
existing pavement layers, some of which include HBB surfacing, will be reworked. The running
course will be bituminous surfacing incorporating crushed river gravel. The sealed shoulders, which
will be used largely by rickshaws, will have a single spray and chip plus slurry seal surface.
Major bridge construction is likely to be of very limited extent: for example, only one major new
bridge will be constructed within the Phase I programme (on road 371, where a bridge of
approximately 100m length is needed to link two presently-unconnected road sections). However, a
number of new or replacement bridges of lengths in the range 20-65m will also be constructed.
The civil works will be carried out under a number of consitruction contracts, let under national
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to RHD and the7 Bank. Within each year of the three-year
construction programme, several contracts will be executed concurrently. Construction is expected
to be relatively labour-intensive, with approximately 25% of the total construction cost of the works
being labour-related.
Tree planting will fall outside the main civil works contracts, and will be carried out by local people,
organised into groups and managed one or more suitably qualified and experienced NGOs, based on
the usual RHD Arboricultural Unit procedures.
Page 2



Feeder Roads Type A Plroject                                                                                                         Environmental Managcment plan
Table 1.2       Sections includetd in Feeder Roads Type A project
Project   Constr.     Road      Location                                Length    LAR    LARI   LAR2           LAR      PAIls3'
phase     year       section                                            (km)      total    agric.   home.   (ha/km)                              Comments
No.                                                         (ha)
I         1       511        Kotalipara-Kandi                          9.76     3.86     2.89     0.97      0.39       410
1       117        Gournadi-Agailjhara-Kotalipara-Gopalganj    45.95  13.21    9.91     3.30      0.29      1930   Approx. I Ikm is on Water Dcv. Board land
I       371        Shahapur-Sholgati-Chuknagar             12.56      5.14     3.85     1.29      0.41       527   Major raisingover I km
1       433/435   Dapdabia-Nalchiti-Mollerhat              22.84      6.27     4.70     1.57      0.27       959   1.Ikm realignment to avoid rivcr crosion
1       415        Bhandaria-Sripur (with link to Kanua)    5.79      4.28     3.21     1.07      0.74       243   Major raising and/or realignment
1       508        Dhawa-lkri                              14.75      5.87     4.40     1.47      0.40       619
1       439        Daulatkhan-liakimuddin                  13.77      4.99     3.74     1.25      0.36       578
1        68        Bhaga-Lalpur-lshardi                    26.72      5.76     4.32     1.44      0.22      1122
1&2        76A&B   Sirajganj-Kajipur-Dhunal-Sherpur          55.61      3.94    2.95      0.99     0.07      2336   LA needed along 16km, remainder on (iovt land
2       418        Bhandaria-Paikhali-Kathalia              12.02      1.50     1.12    0.38      0.12       505   No raising: embankmenit relatively low
2       517        Kheaghat-Bankerhat-Veduria               19.41     7.20     5.40      1.80     0.37       815
2       509        Charkali-Telikhali                       11.19     4.48     3.36      1.12     0.40       470
2         2        112       Kushtia-Poradaha-Alamdanga-Chuadanga     43.2       7.7      5.8      1.9      0.18       1814   Approx 16km on Govt land
2        72        Tabunia-Atgharia-Chatmoharpur-Baghabari   60.3    46.6    35.0       11.6      0.77      2533
3       516        Patgati-Tungipara-Gopalganj              17.2      7.6      5.7       1.9      0.44       722
3       420        Barisal-Lakutia-Babuganj                 13.4      7.2      5.4       1.8      0.54       563
3       510        Rahagaganj-Sadullahpur-Bhuterbari        12.0      6.0      4.5       1.5      0.50       504
3        77        Rangpur-Pirgacha-Sunderganj-Gaibandhat    67.9    36.6    27.5        9.1      0.54      2852
3       322        Pabna-Pakshi     -                       23.2      16.2    12.1       4.1      0.70       974
3        73        Madhahpur-Sathira-Bera                   19.1      17.2     12.9      4.3      0.90       802   Major widening ofliighinembankmcnt
Totals                                  506.67    211.60   158.75    52.85     0.43     21278
Notes:
I       Assumes 75% of total LAR is in agricultural land
2       Assumes 25 % of total LAR is in homestead land
3       Assumes 42 direct PAHs/km
P age 3



Feeder Roads TN pe A Project                                    Env ironmental Management Plan
1.3    Summary of the Project Environmental Setting
All the sections of road included in the overall project lie in flat areas of the western parts of
Bangladesh, either within the floodplains or the delta lands of the Brahmaputra-Ganges-Jamuna-
Meghna river system.
Land use along the project roads is dominated by agriculture, and mostly by small-scale subsistence
agriculture based on one or more crops of rice, although sugarcane, maize and wheat are locally
important. Dry season cash crops such as potatoes are important in many areas, but particularly on
road 77 in the Rangpur area. Oilseeds (mainly mustard) are an important winter crop in most areas.
Grazing of cattle and sheep is of more importance in the southern part of the project area than in the
northern parts, but is always a subsidiary activity to food crop production, and mainly makes use of
seasonally fallow land.
Agricultural landholdings are relatively small, with most probably being between 0.5ha and 1.0ha,
and are highly fragmented. Most holdings are owner operated, but sharecropping is widely practised
in most areas. Rental of agricultural land is relatively rare.
Homestead land holdings are much smaller than agricultural holdings, and most are less than about
400m2. Homesteads are generally concentrated in more or less continuous, but well-separated,
settlement areas, found along all of the project sections. However, small and relatively isolated
groups of homesteads are common in many areas. The smaller settlements are usually of ribbon type,
with a single row of houses and gardens on either side of the road, sometimes including a small
bazaar area.
Small or large towns are found at the beginning and end of most, but not all roads, and also at
intermediate points on many. These usually have a central bazaar area, which is relatively narrow
and highly congested.
Many of the watercourses which run alongside, or are crossed by the project road sections are used
for navigation purposes for all or part of the year; primarily by small- and medium-sized country
boats. Boat transport of goods is more prevalent in the southeni parts of the project area, where there
are many more permanently navigable waterways than in the northern parts. In the wet season, boat
transport becomes important in all areas, and seasonally dry waterways become navigable by small
boats.
There are no areas of high ecological value, such as natural forest, mangroves or undisturbed
wetlands, along or in the immediate vicinity of any of the project roads, all of which pass through
lands which have been heavily modified by man, in connectionr with agricultural development. Only
one road (371) passes through an area of beels. Dakatia beel, which is crossed by the eastern part of
the road, has very largely been developed for agriculture, and remaining open water areas are small
and discontinuous. A much larger area of open water still exists in Baratbhaina beel, which is crossed
by the western part of the road, but in neither case is any natural wetland vegetation evident.
The land adjacent to all project roads is subject to flooding with variations in frequency, inundation
period and depth, from road to road. On most roads, flood levels are below pavement base level, and
only minor raising will be required (usually of the order of 0.5m over lengths of a few hundred
metres).
It should be noted that erfibankment integrity of parts of road 76a is potentially under threat, as a
result of the poor condition of the Jamuna flood embankment in that area, which lies close to the east,
and should provide protection against inundation.
Page 4



Feeder Roads Type A Prolect                                   En% ironmental Manazement Plan
The flooding situation in relation to roads 72 and 73 is complex, since the alignment of both is
roughly perpendicular to the so-called 'Green River', and in addition, backflooding also occurs.
These matters need to be given careful consideration when the detailed designs of embankments,
cross drainage structures and bridgres are being prepared during Phase 2 of the project.
Most of the sections included in the project are existing roads which currently provide through transit
links for motorised traffic. Current traffic levels on these are generally relatively low, being of the
order of 100- 150 vehicles per day, of which a high proportion are non-motorised rickshaws.
1.4    Approach to Environmental Management and Monitoring,
The approach to EMP development has been based on recognition of the primary objective of
environmental management, which is efficient implementation of the measures necessary to avoid,
minimise or offset adverse impacts and to promote beneficial impacts, so that the overall
environmental performnance of the project is enhanced. In this respect, emphasis has been placed on
full integration of environmental management activities with other aspects of the overall project
management effort, which themselves are directed towards the objective of achieving a properly
designed and constructed project which meets its intended purpose and functions efficiently
throughout its life.
Environmental monitoring is an essential tool in environmental management, since it provides the
basic information for rational management decisions, and needs to be fully integrated with
management efforts.
Taking the above broad principles into account, the EMP has been formulated to address the
following matters:
* impacts which need to be controlled and the control measures which need to be adopted
* appropriate management actions needed to implement the control measures and the bodies to be
responsible for their implementation
* monitoring necessary for environmental management purposes, procedures to be adopted for
execution, and reporting so that monitoring results are fed back to those responsible for taken
executive management actions and decisions
* the overall organisational structure necessary for efficient environmental management, and the
coordination linkages which need to be established between the various entities involved
* the programme for implementation of management and monitoring, fully coordinated with other
aspects of the project implementation schedule
Page 5






Fecder Roads T%pe A Pro ject                                    Environmental Nlanagement Plan
SECTION 2
OVERVIEW OF IMPACTS AND MITIGATION MEASURES
2.1    Scoping
A comprehensive matrix checklist (Table 2.1 at the end of this section) presents an overview of the
potential impacts likely to be associated with the pre-construction, construction, and operational
phases of the FRA project. It also includes an assessment of significance, assuming that no
mitigation or management measures are adopted to enhance beneficial impacts, or to mitigate,
compensate for, or offset adverse impacts. In the interests of clarity of presentation, it should be
noted that checkboxes have only been completed for those impacts which are considered to be
potentially significant; those relating to non-significant impacts have been left blank.
There is a general similarity in the environmental settings of all road sections within the overall
project and, although there will be some variation between sections in terms of the nature and scale
of the improvement works, these too are broadly comparable. As a result, there are no major
differences between sections in terms of potential environmental impact.
Many of the potentially adverse impacts commonly associated with road projects will either not
occur, or are likely to be of low magnitude and negligible significance. Impacts falling in these
categories are:
Direct impacts
* Major landslides, slumps, slips and other mass movements in road cuts: the project roads do not
traverse hilly terrain and there will be no cuts; the landscape on all roads is flat and stable.
* Erosion of land adjacent to the road arising from concentrated runoff from road drains: lateral drains
will not be installed and there will be no concentration of pavement run-off.
e Alteration of groundwater regimes where road cuts intercept aquifers: the project roads do not
traverse hilly terrain and no cuts will be constructed.
* Destruction or damage to terrestrial wildlife, habitats, biological resources or ecosystems that should
be preserved: no sensitive ecological areas are traversed by project roads, or will be affected by the
project works or operation of the improved roads.
* Alteration of hydrological regimes of wetlands by embankment construction, with harmful effects on
these ecosystems: no ecologically significant wetlands traversed by the roads; short lengths of new
embankment will be constructed only where realignment is absolutely necessary, and all will have
adequate cross-drainage openings.
. Interruption of migratory routes for fish, other wildlife and livestock: project-improved cross-
drainage works will, if anything, result in marginal improvements for the passage of fish through
embankments; no migratory routes for animals occur within the project area.
* Increased vehicle collisions with wild animals: not relevant as large wild animals are extinct in the
areas traversed by the project roads.
* Transmission of communicable diseases from workers to local populations and vice versa: most
workers will be local; STD's from prostitution around camps are a special case.
* Creation of temporary breeding habitats for mosquito and other insect vectors of disease, e.g.,
stagnant pools of water: large numbers of such pools exist already; increase in numbers arising from
borrow pit development will be insignificant.
* Creation of transmission corridors for diseases, pests and weeds: the roads already exist, and no new
transmission corridors will be opened up.
* Displacement of public buildings and facilities by land acquisition: new alignments have been
selected to avoid affecting mosques, temples, schools, government buildings etc.
Page 6



Feeder Roads T% pe A P'rojecc                                      Env ironmental Nlanagcmcnt Plan
* Loss of cultural heritage: very few cultural heritage sites, mainly in the forn of old temples, occur
near to the project roads, although there are numerous eidgah, graveyards, mosques and associated
properties; new alignments have been selected to avoid encroachiment and none will be affected.
* Increase in noise and air pollution from vehicles; road improvernents are unlikely to result in project-
generated traffic sufficient to cause significant incremental impacts.
* Community severance effects resulting from higher traffic levels and vehicle speeds: improvements
unlikely to give rise to motorised traffic levels or increased speeds sufficient to cause significant
impact.
Indirect impacts
* Stimulation of unplanned or illegal timber cutting: the project roads do not traverse or provide
increased access to areas with significant timber resources.
*  Stimulation of unplanned or illegal land clearing: all land is already utilised or clearly owned and
managed; displacement from agricultural land will be very limited and compensation payments at
market value will allow purchase of replacement land which has already been developed; new
alignments have been selected to avoid causing displacement from housing, and there will be no
mass displacement of population to undeveloped areas.
* Long-term or semi-permanent destruction of soils in cleared areas not suited for agriculture: not
relevant for reasons given above.
• Unplanned development and illegal invasion of homelands of indigenous peoples by squatters and
poachers causing serious social and economic disruption: not relevant as no such homelands exist on
or near to the project roads..
- Destruction of or damage to terrestrial wildlife habitats, biological resources or ecosystems that
should be preserved, by induced development: project roads will not create any new access to any
areas of ecological significance.
• Stimulation of land speculation: project roads are all located in rural areas and the improvements
which will be carried out are not such as will stimulate major new development such as housing or
industrial estates.
• Impacts associated with quarr-v development: unlikely that any new quarries, will be developed to
supply materials in connection with the works; marginal incremental impact at existing workings.
Page 7



ds Type A Project                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Etrxironncctat NI:irropcrl,c t Ilan
Table 2.1   Impact Checklist (Sheet 1)
Potenholty affeded envsronmental oomponentstvalues                                                Potential impad dharacterisalion                      Evaluation
Air      Water          Land      Flora & aua            Human use                    Ouslity of lif        Type    Effect    Curaion    Change  Area] eulent   Baseline    Significance lenet
change    without ettigatlon
A             01                                                                                                            1
land s          p                                                    _ __rl1                                                                          1                                                                                            Not rnonaty a pmrhlem o  mrural road projects in Bangladesh
nsowconbucton loo                                                     _                i                                                                                 I                                                                               r-  b      roccurt some   ent   al +on
bvagdesrne" o nsWW oa                            I h t                                            - i                                  1                                                                               I                            SuLrveytito ottume tra ui"ng: no n
irptacametntfrom t homestead ld                                                                       [ |                          I x                 ]                                 I        X   X                X               KA           Individual tosses mainly smatt teess hos plhty    d     mliton
,s ylac er   tsn                                             I                                                                             IXltoidividua t losses   m                                                                                                 a nle y    sm all.  relaiu el   t   PA H x wit   suf f w i   Ter   Ind.rect   eff ecs
sptacenrrtfrontareast                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -        Numbersof PAHsneeding elocationtonesssites likely t.obeu ery low
rvatoprnerson nesugeble sites             -      -1                                                                                                 _I                      .…as aboue
I__ f__li    s _tornmerc_ t- p emises                                                                              I          I                                                    No II Isuc land & premises tob ho acquiedr transient effacts o squaters
Iofpubticobtdutn    dfadtles                        -       I           I             L  I                             1 |    I I                                                                                                                   No public baildingstaocllities affected bry land acquisition
WnEdu tw  etnomhredemrl1                                                                                                               i                                                                                                            No iijtwal her|tage affected by land acquisition
epojrnt'gireviopalio_rre                         II                        't  ___ |                                  i- |    |-t- L                    ] -t- 2<.              <    ___ I                   JI I                       -1s                          :                     
_ _1MUN" for IDCNI po>axnd.                                                                                                                 x                   -+  +                         X I  X                                            KB Major employmnt opportNnities during construchion per-iod
*en trrprtad workteAandloWMlpopnttlor                       I                                                                                            !              ,_----                                                              - -kajorty ~olorho,c  will !hoied locally; ineurlahle o.n-signilcrr-t impact
satmr on loca services (hoOphattla scbools etc)                 1         i                                                         4ii                                 -      -              IC      IC-G                                          Constwolion accidento likely to put pressure on local rned,cal tacd,irtin
Strata esettary and ottsar waateslsptaagea  Ix]  X  I  x                   -    -         -   -  L.J.......1  .~~~~~~ ~  1             K        X         IC                X                 GA       Potenbaelprb hlp mataem lworasltws.scamps,psplantntarTinJetc
________________                                                                                                                                             _ P-W   4Az i        H  J J] n  x <  I +- i                                            ___  ______=_-x---=-=-
or w ater r  eoras wr exisrig us ta                    I         Ix       I   I        1                                                       II                     I I                              X                                   G        Ptenal   lem  i dn             where water resourcs ar firn,_ed
=X+  WXXCS----8t 3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   sreore aeWe
dtikt by trapp . ktting etc                                                                                         K=Nosignikicantwldlite neara soy prject roads fish resources need protectn
__use _p    _____fird s    __e da  __nce lmi-exua1                                                                                                                         1        1                                    XC-I  - XI        GA   -Potential locatised prublem mainly In camp areas & major struicture sites
aojptt of Ontbyaaleeanctadquemona   andneta                - - - 1 t                   i                            i      tI                     I i~I                                          -                                                 Unlikety tohbe a significant problem in rural areas
of heavyirptanrfdschtnaey                                                                                                                                                                                                               +       I 4I I   I,j_____I___
tromad steucttte and pavemafri                                                                                            l.                                                   ! . .e.                      .iM2                        _       GAPtnilpolmo   n  sections where heaoy plant in to be deployed
tbatficcongastton&roadaafatptsezarde  1.  j)          I      It    I   I    I ~~~~                                        I xxi           xl    lxi                     I      XI               GAr    I    Litoc major  plonte needed:aminoredcon estionnproblemsro onensoon  svtrserr-
ive or rare hbabta                                                       j                !          I        j[ J                               __ Io sensitlue hab,tat cearance needed; no Impact
adjacMtOeatittlfoingrmad                                     ft           1.          .x.           J                              I-    tX                       I    tI   It                                  It            I                 KA Major treeclearance iklon all sections
as  duat reuisanc am bornaitetkee deinsolftlonr                                                                                                                                                                                                     No major demolition necessary, no signifi cant impact
nuisance              ____ __MM…-   - --w                                                             . s----Clow-                                        -                -                                                               GA       Onlyminor siteclearance involved; no significant Impact.
ve  "rvlcn                                                                                       ~~~                                    ~     ~       ~     ~       ~     ~      ~      ~        ~        ~~~~~~~~~~X l  x  IC  t  Xt  ItG  Phone and electricity lines located along or cross many sections
rrfilopeeatn of qianfstaa                                      lI                                    [1______                                                                                                                                       No new quarries. marginal incremenlal_impact at existing quames
o ewtdt S Ions of habita                                    I
rhsenweo  eaefrorsaggregate weabtsh 1k________________
Iof tardscpe bsataollftp 
coinatr                                                                                               {    xi              xV         ~                                x                          It            IC                          -   KA  Ngttoccur on all secln.tfota  rall to ho affected wifllb ho rgh__
________________________   -   I   -   ~~~~~~~~~~~                                                    -   -1              1                                      -~~~           ___     AtborrOsePria   writ  ho  hr   Oat lands   witSAR  no rpitoaOUbephiffatrvdserosionnn   prisk
mmas  rlotkWaetp ttazaa on abrarsdortret1I                                                                                                                                                                                                          Annai ost andnsg renter- will    bet hoincr-eased  qg-n-illcAntlyn 
anIta larsatacape qarebly                                 1      -            -          ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        ~      ~       l      Lanoacape qoarity hr potershot korrose amos near to rLoado 5 lore nar fonoad-  row
K1Bw key beneficial KA= key advferse GA= general adverse                                                                                                                                           Pope fi



[yr rronmentttl Nlarnirnmnrirr  Kin~f
Table 2.1        Impact CheckliSt (Sheet 2)
Potentially Circled ealryonmental comporenltslvalues                                          Potentiai impact characledsalion                   Evaluation
Air      Water         Lenid    Flora it founa        Human use                   Ouality of life      Type    Effect    cturatly                           e ru etn aseline   signilicance level
clrange    wilhoUt mritigation
lvlethis andassoclsted potential Impacts          I j                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Commewts
enfropiieslton ofspelltdisposalareas                                                                                                                                                                                                    HI PAdipsla m         iel -b -csa;nsrnrPact
displacemsent from pmductive land                                          3     -                                                                             
HItve Irehltaldidtulutetce to wildlife                                                  3                                  *     - - i           L                 -       -        -         J     I        IL
nIoferosloeiVsdrmenl tteposlinr                                                         -                                                                                                         
Altdust nulssnoe                                                                 1              ii-                                                   -                 --
__-- __________                                                       l                                                                       lii---
lngttom speciletpt                                                        V-                                                                                                                  }4 
lIe peantertr & stoactros                                                                                                                                                                         x IX111   i I j  L x ~-    V      GA  Posrlonatelincrvtigrad   oerorrycur
afttconge"ttn & mad safety he~naalo                                                      11                                                                    i3                   ItrF1~                -                     GA      Localined problems us most sectios. partrcularly in barar arya-
If noise and air polluhoa                                                                    -                        I--_   _ue                                                                                                      -  lvvre  haula ge traffic iostfricient tor Signiricant naIn emeal rotruct
I dua nuisance ott unsurtaed haul routes                                                                               1                                                                                                                 livor local prvblnm In locations whee ha.l roules are unsurfaced
£  riaeconstrutiolln
Ml of tsndscape InstbIlty                   ~K                                 T 3- 3Ladcafpeun~aqlsectiosfaan  tbe  ronipact
steo deosIion eoteoltlt elopes             ~x  I                        x        3                                                         3I                                                          {x                  r~A  All erbankbment maerials readily erodible; no cuts to he -cu.ottroCnrt
ft as obeleucllon to Is  tgaia13j                                                                                                                                                                                                       Worb, mot unlikely to have significant effects on fish migralio
wnts, seutfems canting constyaclion            N] -I-                                                                                                                                                                                    o culloas to be constructed~ no impact
0.111, ic195it05  4 f { i                               -.                          I       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                     1                                       MitroteOectsponnbde on Padn 01 OSly one secIrvo (117)~m  e  5ibe n Frtsofonl on sdio (I17
Nmitnlantadscape euallt                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t.1i ivo, chaungesfoemhankrmevnts no significart chasng in landscatpe
ts OPhbldgeso/.shermoarst#rufnctursed~                                                            ---           -          ~4                   i      ~                                                                                           -                                     
Of "ft  OCWsmwm    "ftoay Iun-ive  or                                                                                                                             X   -        xl       xI                                GAL   rtentivalproblem at alltreplacementlslrctre sites
hsfbe11Nptlco sedment Ieaedl saet  aua s      H-_I_ _                                                  _71                                   L21                              7      L                                                    ior jr-ivr or   amost odles9 no0 srynificant impact
sooctefed witty stabslitrsllotn offernles by bridges  I  I  -   --  j      I    3~~~~~~~~~~~I j        I   {   j-3~~    3                      l~~'~                          Hew Lodges constrocwtedidesundertuheedrunercthe illje notwreplacerela e renn
o Iteolgatluts tsp ttt-aIn~~~~~~~~s~otll5   ~ ~~    -  3 -   -   j  ~ ~ ~          II                       - -                X            X3       K                     II                   PolesytTl problemn alarolem     tea.fewdes depependinng  on s con atm-cI-n
rto genertion (mmn plle-iloivrng  -         L         rr---                                                                 -----                                                --31trdplsnral  sdn  lnniat Impact lihely
ovasfeoctien-- .rFI                                                                                    7        4                                                            i         II
Ir onltutmlx plants                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        pii--- t     J~-~7}7 I ~ i    -  A  oaie   rb emiplnts sited oera settlements
futnenood Rophase kitrbleitc  gs"                                                                                                                                                                                               A      Pote,ollal problem on all sections as fuelwuod resources scarce
rOise levels front lncfeas  truftlI                                                                               - -                                                                                                                   Traffic levels unlikely lo be highenuughr for Significant incremental impact
Ite poeaonlt tens tWmt Incresed bafIl                                                         -                                                                                                                                         Traffic levels un-lrhet to be hrgh enough for Significant incernemoli -mpinar
"trlc-generaled dual1 7 1                                            i-.                                                                                                                                                               Only shotrolength of curre.tlyr traffic-able pmoject sectionIs hre -unyrlced
'noetayce effects dul 55 Witctessed botrfc                            IIb,h-t _-9___                                                                                                                                                                                                    inte rl~P--  --
io Mm A fguns Mmugh nolsel&cw$$/So"r4-                                        z                                                                                                                                    HO ner roads will be created; no impact
eloptntent inprevountslyoesocesslhle treat                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I  tC
noegstio  on connecting rod                                                                                                                                                                                                             L       evel of project-generated traffic unlnbely to caune signdicanr- erecdo
vesiaiddismunily lsoattOltton tagh ft    dietfcresison                                                                                                                                                                                  N    ---o diversion of traffic witl reoult~ no impact
________________                                                                                                                                                                                - o    -~~~~~ I    _ -fxx
I n Ie.    polttea local cnetnrutlcsttdntrax
ceessthresetslutudtlo as  coesnonan.s                                                                                                                                                                                                   No  -1--    -- - j3    traitiovinal cmmmunrties on any sections roilhin the project, no impAct
'plopiese  oppeetanlle on fted masltretn5nce,L___4                                                        _                                      --  xt        X                     1         I                           B---   La,,q.ternnemployment prospects f.rsmall numbers ofpvIadlrGv
usrsfrtsunlane  ibIot dueopset _pil.i-                                                                             ----         -        -   -b                                                                                 -r      mpovmdtevnibtktostmuat sgmicnIne  rbbn e__etnn
desISty heoseds                       r I ll                                                                                                                                        --         -   -       - - -- ~~~~~~~-TSigndicatirrinceaeselIn mtnrtrsed bjalti speedsiuvlumtne  unlikely
K<Bm hey beti11ficitsl KAin key adVerse GAo general edVerse
-.                     s  1                           I  'r5



Feeder Roads Type A Project                                   Environmental Mfanacement Plan
2.2    Potentially Significant Impacts and Mitigation Measures
In the interests of brevity, impacts and mitigation measures are described in summary form only in
the sections which follow. Details are given in the SEIA report (Mouchel 1997).
2.2.1  Pre-construction Phase
Impacts
There is only one anticipated key potential impact during the pre-construction phase:
Displacement from agricultural and homestead land, with adverse effects on social life and family
incomes which are derived wholly or in part from affected land and other assets. Approximately
21 Oha of land will need to be acquired of which about three quarters is expected to be agricultural
land and the remainder homestead land. In total, some 21,300 households are expected to be
directly affected by the land acquisition process (Table 1.2).
Impacts which are likely to be of considerably less importance are:
* Inducement of uncertainties amongst the local population, regarding such matters as whether or
not land and other assets will be subject to compulsory purchase by govemment, the extent to
which they will be affected, the form and adequacy of compensation arrangements, and the date
by which affected land and property will have to be vacated, all of which disturb family life and
can promote social unrest: the consequences of the latter being directed largely towards the
officials involved in the acquisition process and contributing to making the process more difficult
and time-consuming.
* Stimulation of new construction solely with the aim of fraudulently obtaining compensation,
which commonly has the effect of reducing compensation payments to those with genuine
entitlement, either on this project or indirectly on others, as a result of constraints on the available
budget.
Mitigation measures
Considerable effort has been expended by the Phase I design consultants to minimise the area of land
which needs to be acquired in connection with the works. It is expected that this approach will
continue to be adopted in relation to Phase 2 design. In this respect, design measures include:
* a policy that no raising of embankments should take place within built-up areas and bazaar areas
in particular, and that no pucca buildings should be affected by land acquisition: widening of
embankments will only be undertaken in built-up areas where this is absolutely essential on the
grounds of preserving embankment stability
* restriction of realignment involving land acquisition to open rural areas, where only agricultural
land will be affected, and then only to locations where such realignment is considered absolutely
necessary for safety or other reasons
* where new embankment construction is necessary, as far as possible in the circumstances, the
alignment will follow existing tracks
Although the number of PAHs is very high, it should be recognised that, for the majority, the extent
of impact is expected to be marginal, since only a small proportion of an individual's landholding is
likely to be affected by land acquisition. Analogy with very similar FRB projects suggests that about
Page I 0



Feeder Roads Type A Project                                     Environmental Management Plan
tvo-thirds of affected households will lose less than 5% of their holding, 87% less than 10%, and
only 1.5% more than 20%.
In the case of homestead land, it seems unlikely that acquisitiorn of a narrow strip will result in the
need for demolition of houses and/or relocation, since most are set back from existing road margins
by at least 5-6m, and in many cases, by far greater distances. However, a number of other domestic
structures such as animal housing, crop storage facilities etc, will be affected. Most such domestic
structures are in any case of simple kutcha construction, and could easily be dismantled and rebuilt
on unaffected parts of the homestead.
The high level of agricultural landholding fragmentation is expected to result in land acquisition
having only marginal effects on all but the smallest landholders, sharecroppers and the relatively few
people who rent agricultural land. The incomes of most agricultural labourers are also unlikely to be
affected significantly, partly as a result of fragmentationi of the holdings on which they work, and
partly because labour is normally drawn as needed fronm a large floating pool of workers, and few
labourers have permanent relationships with specific parcels of land. In addition, many agricultural
labourers derive a large part of their income from work outside aggriculture.
Payment of compensation for acquired land and other assets 1is expected to reduce the financial
effects on PAHs to an acceptably low level, provided that the compensation paid truly reflects the
financial losses incurred, whether these relate to wealth (in the form of asset loss) or income, or
subsistence.  Support to PAHs, in various forms, will be provided under the RRMP3 RAP
programme, which will include elements relating to families, individuals and groups who are both
directly and indirectly affected by the land acquisition process. The plan, which is currently under
preparation, will make specific provision for identifying and supporting vulnerable groups, including
women, the poor, the destitute and the landless. Provision will also be made in relation to relocation
of squatters, although the present indications are that there are relatively few squatters on most of the
project roads.
The problem of community uncertainties regarding land acquisition will be dealt with by the NGO
appointed by RHD to oversee and assist with RAP implementation, who will be responsible for
promoting (in conjunction with the local authorities, and as an integral part of implementation of the
RAP) an information dissemination programme to those likely to be affected, primarily on a
community basis, but with individual assistance to those families who require it. Provided that the
programme is properly formulated and that due efforts are made to obtain and disseminate accurate
and relevant information, residual impact should be low and non-significant.
The NGO will also be responsible for preparing a dated photogramphic or video record of the existing
property on land to be acquired, immediately before commencement of the land acquisition process.
This will be used to refute any fraudulent compensation claims. Provided that the existence of the
visual record is publicised by both the NGO and local authorities, and it is made clear that fraudulent
claims will not be entertained by the authorities, and may be considered as grounds for iegal action, it
is expected that the incidence of such claims will be low.
2.2.2   Construction Phase
Impacts
A wide range of potential impacts is likely to be associated with tdhe construction phase, most but not
all of which are adverse and direct, and are applicable to all sections. Key potential impacts which
have been identified are:
Page I 1



Feeder Roads Type A Project                                        Environmental Management Plan
. Employment opportunities for the local population: this is likely to be a substantial benefit, as
approximately 25% of the works will involve unskilled labour, and there will be considerable
opportunities for the poorest segments of rural society to participate, including the landless and
women.
* Loss of roadside trees: this is a major adverse potential impact because large numbers of trees will
have to be cleared from embankments, in order to accommodate raising and widening works, on
all sections within the overall project. Apart from their aesthetic value, the trees provide a source
of fuel for the poorest sections of the community, and in particular for poor women.
* Loss of productivity of land developed for borrow pits: large quantities of borrow material will be
required in connection with raising and widening of embankmnents on all, sections within the
project, although there are expected to be wide variations between sections. In total, the
productivity of many hectares of agricultural land is likely to be affected, through the removal of
fertile topsoil coupled with worsening of drainage conditions resulting from a lowering of ground
level. In addition, soil compaction along temporary access tracks by trucks is likely to result in
adverse effects on post-use productivity.
* Erosion of embankment material: all materials likely to be used in embankment construction and
remodelling are inherently highly susceptible to erosion, either by rainfall, pavement runoff, or by
wave action during flood episodes. Such erosion, if left unchecked gives rise to shoulder and
pavement degradation, and ultimately threatens the integrity of the embankment itself, with
adverse effects in terms of a general reduction in the economic benefits which arise from road
improvement.
In addition to the key potential impacts, it is very likely that a number of less important impacts will
occur during construction. These are essentially general construction impacts, and may occur to some
extent on all sections under construction. Most are likely to be localised, reversible, short-tenn
impacts, and will probably be of relatively low or moderate magnitude. They include:
- Friction between imported workers and the local population
• Increased pressure on local services, particularly medical facilities
- Water pollution from sanitary and other wastes and spillages
- Competition for water resources with other users
* Fuelwood depletion through use in contractors' camp facilities, tar boilers, brick kilns etc
* Reduction in land-use options for worksites and base camp areas if not properly cleared on
completion of the works
* Overloading of road pavement and structures on mobilisation/demobilisation of heavy plant, and
by general haulage traffic
* Increased traffic congestion and road safety problems associa'ted with construction traffic
* Interference with phone and electricity lines
* Interruption to navigation caused by in-river construction works
* Air pollution from hot-mix plants
Mitigation measures
Enhancement of empioyment opportunities during construction will be achieved through the
construction contracts requiring contractors to maximise local hire of labour; to carry out at least
25% of the works (as measured by contract value) by hand labour; to take positive steps to recruit
women, the poor and destitute and the landless as labour; and to ensure that at least 30% of the
unskilled labour force employed at any one time is female.
Page 12



Feeder Roads Type A Project                                     Environmental Management Plan
Loss of roadside trees will be mitigated by a major tree planting programme, which will result in
more trees being planted than are removed in connection with construction. The essential features are
that mixed species planting of around 2000 trees/km and subsequent maintenance, will be carried out
by groups comprising the most disadvantaged elements of local communities, organised by an
experienced NGO, and that those responsible for planting and maintenance will share the benefits
with RHD. This matter is dealt with in detail in Section 3.2.
It is also proposed that one or more NGOs should be responsible for developing and managing the
implementation of a mitigation programme in relation to agricultural productivity losses connected
with borrow pit development by contractors. The programme, which is described in detail in Section
3.3, will cover two aspects:
* advice regarding the possible long-termn consequences of agreeing to allow land to be used for
borrow pit development, so that a suitable level of compensation payment can be negQtiated with
contractors
. advice regarding the options which are available in relation to borrow pit reinstatement for a
productive purpose once extraction has ceased, which could involve redevelopment for agriculture
(with or without modification to crops, cropping patterns or seed varieties to suit the changed
conditions), or as relatively small-scale fish ponds (to be operated by the landowner, or under
lease arrangements involving locally-formed groups, with particular emphasis on the organisation
of groups comprising the most disadvantaged members of local communities).
Embankment erosion will be reduced to acceptably low levels by the incorporation of clauses in the
specifications for the establishment of full vegetation cover on completion of the earthworks and, in
the case of wave erosion, the incorporation of suitable bank protection measures in the project
designs. Provided that routine inspections are carried out to identify any embankment sections where
erosion is taking place, and effective and timely remedial actions are implemented, embankment
integrity will be preserved in the long term.
The general construction impacts will be mitigated through the enforcement of environmental
protection clauses which will be included in the construction contracts. The main provisions in this
respect are summarised in Table 4.2.4 of Section 4. Provided that construction supervision staff duly
enforce all the clauses, impacts should be reduced to acceptably lIDw levels.
2.2.3   Operational Phase
Impacts
The potentially significant impacts during the operational phase are:
* Major improvements in local trade and communications, and a reduction in transport costs, to the
benefit of all communities on both the improved sections of road and connecting roads.
* Impedance to boat traffic on navigable waterways resulting from inadequate clearance at new or
replacement bridges.                    - -
Mitigation measures
Continued long-term enjoyment of the benefits arising from the iimproved roads will only be possible
if effective routine and periodic maintenance is carried out. Other-wise, the condition of the roads and
associated structures will gradually deteriorate to the pre-project state. The matter of road
Page 13



Feeder Roads Type A ProQect                                        Environmental M.anagement Plan
maintenance is to be addressed under another component of the RRMP3 project, and therefore will
not be considered in this Environmental Management Plan.
The design of all bridges has taken into account the need for adequate soffit clearance under flood
conditions, according to the requirements for each class of navigable watervvay. Consequently, no
impact is anticipated in this respect.
2.2.4 Residual Impacts
In all cases, the potentially significant adverse impacts associated with project implementation can all
be minimised offset or compensated satisfactorily, through adoption of the specified mitigation
measures. Provided that the measures are actually implemented and, where necessary, are enforced,
residual impact should be at acceptably low levels.
Page 14






Feeder Roads Type A Project                                  Environmental Management Plan
SECTION 3
MAJOR MITIGATION PROGRAMMES
3.1   Introduction
Apart from implementation of the RAP in connection with mitigating the effects of land acquisition,
two major mitigation programmes are proposed. They relate to replacement tree-planting and post-
use reinstatement of borrow pits, and are focused on offsetting two of the most significant long-term
adverse effects of project implementation: loss of roadside trees and a reduction in the productivity of
land which is used for borrow pit development. Both programmes are of considerable importance in
relation to improving overall environmental performance of the project, and it is vital that they
should be implemented efficiently.
At the time of preparation of this EMP, individual contract details regarding works within the first
year's programme were still to be finalised, and only limited engineering information was available
for other roads within the project. In the case of tree removal, the numbers concerned and the
locations involved will not be known until a complete inventory has been carried out by RHD
Arboricultural Unit, following completion of the detailed designs. Borrow quantities will not be
finalised until detailed designs have been completed. Borrow pit locations will be selected by the
contractors (subject to the approval of the Engineer), and will not be known until construction works
are about to commence on each section.
In consequence, the programmes themselves can only be developed to the conceptual stage at
present. However, an integral feature of both programmes is the incorporation of a further planning
element to evaluate the required scope and extent, as well as to firm up on implementation details.
Both programmes will address livelihood restoration for project affected persons. However, because
of the marginal impact which land acquisition is expected to have on most affected families, neither
programme is exclusively focused on this issue, although both programmes will cater for those who
are directly, or indirectly affected by land acquisition and who need income restoration support.
In the case of the tree planting programme, the focus will be on those groups, mainly comprising
very poor women, who depend on existing roadside plantations for leaves and small branches used as
their domestic fuel, or who sell a proportion to derive income. The extensive tree felling which is
needed in connection with implementation of the works will deprive such groups of the resource
which they currently exploit. The programme will also be open to others representing the most
disadvantaged elements of rural society, such as poor or destitute males and females, together with
the landless or functionally landless who have limited opportunities for income generation.
The borrow pit reinstatement programme will also not be specifically aimed at income restoration for
those affected by agricultural or homestead land acquisition, since it is unlikely that many PAPs will
need this type of support. It is however clearly focused on minimisation of the adverse effects of
borrow extraction on agricultural land, which constitutes an important impact, both in terms of
income reduction and devaluation of a non-renewable natural resource. Participants in the
programme will not only include those whose land is affected (even though they will have received
cash compensation from contractors), but also, as in the case of the tree planting programme, the
poorest sections of society.
Income restoration matters are also addressed in the RRMP3 RAP, but this is primarily addressed at
provision of support to those affected by the official land acquisition process, whereas the
Page 15



Feeder Roads Type A Project                                   Environmental Management Plan
programmes outlined above are primarily addressed at groups who will be affected by project
implementation, but not through gzovernment acquisition of private land.
The question of whether the NGO responsible for assisting RHD in implementation of the RAP,
should also be responsible for managing the tree planting and borrow pit reinstatement programmes,
has been given careful consideration. Two factors were given particular attention:
* RAP implementation will very largely take place cluring the pre-construction phase for each road
section, while the main work related to the tree planting and borrow pit programmes will take
place towards the end, or immediately after cornpletion of the construction works on each
section: ie. some 15 to 24 months later, when the RAP teams on each section have moved away to
other sections
* there are grave doubts that the RAP implementation NGC) has the staff resources, technical and
organisational skills, local contacts and credibility, to undertake geographically dispersed
programmes, which in the case of borrow pit development for fish production will involve
provision of continued support to those involved over a relatively long period
Consequently, the programmes have been planned on the basis that they will be implemented through
either local NGOs, or national NGOs with considerable experience in the relevant technical fields,
and who already have a well-established local presence in the areas concerned, rather than on the
basis of implementation through the RAP NGO.
3.2    Tree Planting
3.2.1  General Considerations
The study and design consultants have investigated ways in which the need for tree felling on
embankments could be minimised, including the possibility of widening embankments on one side,
so that felling is needed only on one side. However, there are sound engineering reasons why this is
not practicable, mainly connected with the need to maintain approach geometry to the many existing
culverts and bridges, which otherwise would have to be replaced. Realignment of approaches to
avoid felling would unnecessarily incur additional construction costs but, and more importantly from
the environmental viewpoint, would also result in slightly higher levels of socio-economic and other
impacts associated with the need for additional land acquisition impacts, and even greater impact in
relation to the need for further borrow extraction.
In many cases where raising of embankments is currently being carried out under other projects, tree
felling is being avoided through the placement of fill around existing trees. In such cases, mechanical
compaction of placed fill is not being undertaken. This approach is considered unacceptable for the
present project, since proper compaction is necessary to promote long-term embankment stability and
pavement integrity.
Although the final crest width at pavement surface level will be a minimum of 7.4m, the minimum
crest width at pavement base level will be 9.4m. This latter width is the minimum width needed for
construction of the improved pavement, since in most cases, pavement works will involve excavation
of existing layers to a depth of lm, reconstitution and compaction of the base layers, and lateral
extension of the base layers to accommodate the rickshaw lanes.
The maximum distance (at pavement level) between trees which have been planted on either side of
the project roads is approximately 8.5m, although in most locations it is less than 6.5 to 7m. Thus,
Page 16



Feeder Roads Type A Project                                   Env ironmental Manaaement Plan
even if no flattening of embankment slopes is necessary, extensive tree removal would have to be
carried out prior to the commencement of construction works. Where embankment sideslope
flattening and mechanical compaction of placed fill is to take place, the numbers of trees to be
removed will be further increased, beyond what is necessary in connection with pavement
improvement alone.
The net result will be that the majority of existing trees on embankments will need to be felled on
most the roads within the project. In most cases, the trees are relatively young, having been planted in
the last 6-10 years, and the number of mature trees which need to be felled will be relatively low. In
locations where large banyan trees are located close to existing road margins, embankment works are
being designed so as to avoid the need for felling, since these trees have high cultural significance.
Most tree clearance will take place in areas where the roads traverse open agricultural lands, since
these are where most roadside trees have been planted. However, even though no embankment
raising will be carried out in built-up areas, there will still be a need for some clearance in connection
with pavement improvement, and in some areas for embankment slope flattening, although this will
be on a much smaller scale than in rural areas, and will mainly affect privately-owned trees on
homestead land, for which compensation will be paid under the land acquisition programme.
3.2.2 Approach to the Programme
The prime objectives of the programme are:
• replacement of trees which necessarily have to be felled in connection with execution of the
works
n provision of benefits to the poorest segments of society in terms of employment during planting,
use of thinnings and prunings during the rotation period, and share of revenue on felling
- improvement in the visual quality of the roads
• provision of shade for the many non-motorised users of the roads
In addition, planting of trees will make some contribution to discouraging squatter occupation of
embankments, and thus will reduce social problems associated with the need for displacement in
future years when further widening is necessary to increase road capacity.
Tree planting will be carried out through the RHD Arboricultural Unit, in broad conformity with their
existing guidelines (Appendix 2).
Approximately 2000 trees/km will be planted on average. Where embankments are low, two rows
will be planted on each side, with three rows on higher embankments. In the rows nearest to the
pavement margins, spacing will be at 6m centres. In other rows, spacing will be at 2m centres. No
planting will be undertaken on the inside of bends, in order to avoid obscuririg sight lines. Provision
will need to be made for protecting young trees against depredation by livestock, particularly by
goats. Bamboo or a similar type of fencing is preferred to establishment of hedges comprising
compact, fast-growing bushes with a low growth habit, since protection is needed immediately after
planting, and hedges will not provide immediate protection.
Groups of the poor, destitute and landless(with particular emphasis on participation by women), will
be organised by an experienced NGO, to raise and plant the trees and subsequently to maintain them.
The groups then share the benefits of the planting scheme as trees are harvested.
Page 17



Feeder Roads Ty pe A Project                                  Environmental Mtanagement Plan
Preliminary assessment suggests that approximately 40 groups will need to be established in
connection with implementation of each year's planting programme to be executed over a period of 3
years, on the basis that:
* a 3km section will be allocated to each group (this is a reasonable distance for travel to planting
sites for women, who wil! need to be fairly close to their-homes so-that work does not unduly
interfere with domestic commitments)
* 75% of the total length of roads within the project will require replanting, giving 125 km to be
planted each year over a 3 year period
* actual planting to take place over a two month period each year (June-July), before the onset of
the flood season
* approximately 10 persons in each group, of whom about half would be directly involved with the
planting, and the other half involved in nursery activities, planting hole preparation etc.
In the interests of efficient management it is recommended that a single large and experienced NGO
should be appointed by RHD to oversee and manage the planting programme, although there is some
merit in the altemative of appointing two NGOs, one with responsibility for planting on roads north
of the Padma river and one with responsibility for roads to the south. Whichever approach is adopted,
it is essential that the NGO or NGOs concerned should have proven capability to organise and
manage extensive programmes. A prime criterion in selection should be that the NGO has existing
extensive relevant operations in, and offices covering, all areas in, which the project roads are located.
Appointments need to be made well before (at least 12 rnonths and preferably 15-18 months) before
actual planting is scheduled to commence, since an adequate lead time will be necessary in order to:
* identify, establish and brief groups
* arrange benefit sharing agreements between RHD and the groups
* ascertain group preferences regarding tree species to be planted
- develop detailed implementation plans and planting schemes, taking into account group
preferences and the overall objectives of the schemes
* establish sapling nurseries
Group establishment
On each section of road, a number of groups will have to be established, each with responsibility for
the fixed length within their local area, so as to minimise problems associated with members
travelling to sites in connection with planting and subsequent maintenance, the need for women in
particular to be near their homes etc. The length assigned to an individual group may involve one or
more separate locations, since in many instances planting will be discontinuous. However, it is
important that each group should comprise members from A single Union Parishad and should
operate only in its own Union, so as to avoid difficulties between communities from different
jurisdictions. Since a relatively large number of groups is likely to be involved, the selection process
for the organising NGOs should take into account the need for demonstrable expertise and experience
in group management and coordination, as well as an existing presence in the areas concerned.
Potential group members should be identified by the organising NGO, through discussions with the
Chairmen of the Unions concerned, and should comprise the poor, the destitute, the landless and
others who are socially or financially disadvantaged, with preference being given to women who fall
into one of these categories. Other things being equal, first priority should be given to those
disadvantaged persons who have been directly or indirectly affected by the project land acquisition
process or by felling of ekisting trees on embankments, and this will require consultation with the
NGO responsible for RAP implementation.
Page 18



Feeder Roads Type A Project                                     Environmental Manacement Plan
Once potential group members have been identified, it will be necessary to select those who will
actually become members of active groups, since it is vital that numbers in each group should be
limited, so that a reasonable return on their labour can be achieved. If a group is too large, there is
always a danger that an individual's share of benefits will be so small as to make participation
unviable in terms of making a significant improvement in living conditions possible, and lack of
commitment may result.
On the other hand, groups which are too small may be incapable of carrying out planting at a
sufficient rate to achieve completion in the relatively narrow planting window between the onset of
the monsoon rains and the start of the flood season. In addition, the objective of improving living
standards for the optimum number of families may not be met. In some cases, a compromise may be
necessary between the numbers of people wanting to participate in the programme and optimum
numbers related to significant improvement in living standards for those who participate..
As part of the detailed planning process, the NGO responsible should determine the number of
groups needed on each section of road, together with the optimum number of members in each,
taking all relevant factors into account. Current RHD practice is for groups to comprise around 10
members/km of road, but this should only be taken as indicative of the optimum number, which may
well vary within and between sections. Through consultation with the Parishad Chairmen, criteria for
the selection of group members should be developed, with high priority being given to those
individuals in greatest need of support.
Planting and benefit-sharing agreements
Agreement will have to be reached between the organising NGO and RHD concerning details of the
planting programmes on each road section, responsibilities of the various parties concerned and
precisely how benefit sharing of plantation production will operate. The current guideline form of
agreement developed and used by the Arboricultural Unit gives a maximum of 50% of the benefits to
social forestry participants, which is lower than the 55% proposed for the forthcoming ADB Forestry
Sector Project for roadside planting.
The responsible NGO should assist RHD in developing a modified form of agreement, broadly
similar to that proposed for the ADB Forestry Sector project. Local beneficiaries should receive
100% of the benefits arising from any thinnings 6 years after planting, and of the trimmings arising
over the planned 30 year rotation cycle, in return for caring for the trees and doing simple routine
maintenance to the embankments. When the trees are felled after 30 years, the agreements should
make provision for felling revenues to be distributed between RHD, the local authorities, and local
beneficiaries and a tree replanting fund, with at least 55% going to local planting groups. The
agreements should also make provision for payment of a proportion of plantation establishment costs
(probably around 15%) to the responsible NGO as a service charge, to meet administrative,
management and other costs associated with setting up beneficiary groups and supervising nursery
establishment, planting etc. The agreements should also involve Union Parishads as beneficiaries,
since a share in the felling revenue will promote long-term interest in and security of the trees. RHD
should be responsible for providing the NGO with the funds necessary for procurement of seeds,
fertiliser and other materials, including simple hand tools needed for plantation establishment, and
for payments to group members for their labour.
In this latter respect, it should be noted that the groups, being made up of the poor etc, are in need of
immediate rewards in the form of cash for their efforts. If the programme is based solely on benefit
sharing in return for labour, there is likely to be little enthusiasm for a scheme which effectively
delays receipt of rewards for 6 years, at which time proceeds from the first thinnings would be
available for distribution. Cash payments for labour should therefore be part of the programme.
Page 19



Feeder Roads T% pe A Project                                    Environmental NManagement Plan
Selection of species
Single species planting dominates most of the existing roadside planting schemes which have been
established in recent years, with Sisso (Dalbergia sissoo), rain tree or Fulkorai (Samanea saman) and
several species of acacia being most common. These are all basically timber or fuelwood species,
although they also used for other purposes including animal fodder. For this project it is proposed
that mixed species planting should be adopted, in line with the recommendations made for Dhaka-
Sylhet road project, with the mix being selected to include those which:
e are relatively fast growing and will rapidly produce good shacle
e are adapted to coppicing, so that benefits can be realised on a regular basis
• are relatively slow growing, but produce good timber in the long term
• provide fodder for domestic livestock
Inclusion of fruit trees in the planting mix has been considered, but cannot be recommended. Many
fruit species such as mango and jackfruit are capable of producing good crops well after the age 30
years, which is the RHD standard rotation. It is probable that considerable unrest would occur if a
productive tree were to be felled for its timber. In addition there are adverse road safety implications
if ripe fruit falls on the pavement and makes it slippery, and potential problems associated with theft
of either saplings or ripe fruit.
The responsible NGO should discuss with local beneficiary groups their preferences regarding the
most appropriate planting mix, and take this into account, together with RHD Arboricultural Unit
views and the above factors, when developing individual planting schemes.
Plant nurseries
Plant nurseries will need to be established at an early date in order to grow seedlings on until they
reach the required height for planting out (I to l.Sm). While existing RHD nurseries could supply
saplings, these could be located far from the project roads, thus increasing transportation costs and
introducing difficulties in maintaining regular supplies to planting sites during the short planting
season. Furthermore, existing nurseries have their own programme commitments to meet, and may
not have the spare capacity to produce the sapling numbers required to a tight time schedule.
The responsible NGO should determine the most appropriate nursery strategy for each section of
road, taking into account such factors as the length of the sectjion, and the numbers of trees to be
planted at various locations. While there are advantages in making each planting group responsible
for its own nursery, in terms of skills development reaching. a larger number of people, ease of
transport of planting material to work sites, promoting a sense of group responsibility etc., large
numbers of small nurseries may prove to be difficult to manage efficiently, and the altemative of
fewer but larger nurseries may have to be adopted.
Whatever strategy is adopted, the nurseries should be set up so as to produce approximately 50%
more planting material than is required by the planting plans. This will make allowance for partial
planting failures, but more importantly, sale of the-excess by those participating in nursery operations
will provide additional income support at marginal cost. Some of those who develop tree raising
skills through involvement in nursery production on this project may find that they can subsequently
operate a viable small-scale business based on the homestead, thus extending the long-term benefits
of the programme.
The nurseries will need to be located near to or on the project roads, to facilitate transport of planting
material to worksites at the beginning of the wet season. They should have sufficient area and
Page 20



Feeder Roads Type A Project                                   Environmental Management Plan
production capacity to meet the requirements of the individual planting schemes that thev have been
set up to supply. Simple shade sheds may be necessary for raising certain species, and in all cases an
assured supply of water will be necessary, which may involve provision of a shallow tubewell
equipped with a pump. Security, in the form of a nightwatchman may be needed in some locations. In
selecting locations for nurseries, consideration should be given to the utilisation of khas land where
this is available, as a means of reducing costs. Discussions with the local authorities will be
necessary in this respect.
Organisational support
The level of technical skill necessary to establish successful tree plantations is not particularly high.
However a high level of planning and organisational skill is required if a major planting programme
covering some 500km of roads spread over a wide area is to be implemented efficiently.
In view of the importance of the planting programme in mitigating one of the major adverse
environmental impacts of the project, and the fact that no provision has been made in the TOR for the
construction supervision consultant or elsewhere for specialist inputs connected with the programme,
it is thierefore proposed thzat:
* the Bank should finance a small TA sub-project to provide support to the NGO or NGOs
responsible for organising and overseeing the planting progranmme, with particular reference to
the provision of expertise and training in planning and other organisational aspects
* the TA should comprise provision of the services of an experienced Social Forestry Specialist for
an overall period of 5 months, split into 3 inputs, being 3 months in connection with the first
year 's programme and I month for each of the second and third year programmes
3.3    Rehabilitation of Borrow Pits
3.3.1   General Considerations
It is clear that large quantities of borrow will be required on all road sections in connection with
embankment remodelling. Borrow quantities for sections within Phase I of the project, range from
approximately 16,900m3/km for Section 511, which is on a very narrow and relatively high
embankment, to 6,800m3/km for Section 433/435, which is on a relatively wide and low
embankment. The average is around I 0,000m3/km. Borrow will be obtained from pits developed by
the contractors, under private arrangements which they will negotiate with individual landowners.
Government will not acquire land needed in connection with borrow pit development.
Contractors working on road rehabilitation projects in Bangladesh commonly remove material to a
relatively shallow depth (approximately Im in many cases) from fields on both sides adjacent to the
road. This results in a reduction in agricultural productivity related to removal of the topsoil, which
contains the bulk of the organic matter and plant nutrients in the soil profile, and forms the rooting
medium for annual crops. In addition, the resultant lowering of ground level means that drainage
conditions become worse in the root zone in locations where the water table is at a relatively shallow
depth (which situation applies to most, if not all, sections of road included in the project during the
main cropping season). The net result is that large areas of productive land become significantly less
productive.
There is little which can be done in terms of adjustments to designs to reduce the quantities of borrow
required if the design standards needed to achieve long-term embankment stability and flood
Page 21



Feeder Roads Type A Project                                   Environmental Manaeement Plan
protection are to be met, although the decision that no embankment works will be carried out in built-
up areas has reduced borrow quantities to some extent.
The aggregate area of land which is expected to be affected by borrow pit development and the
consequent reduction in productivity is high. On the assumption that the maximum economic haul
distance is 2 kmn, individual pits would-need to be of 20000m3 capacity which, if they are excavated
to about 2.5m depth, would have an area of 0.8ha. The overall programme would require of the order
of 250 pits, covering a total area of 200ha, which is very close to the overall permanent land
acquisition requirement of approximately 21 Oha.
Most landowners, and especially small landowners, already operate at or very close to subsistence
level, and even marginal reductions in productivity are likely to be significant in terms of reducing
family food production, or income in cases where a surplus is available for sale or trade. Payments
made under lease agreements for use of land for borrow pits are most unlikely to reflect the long-
term consequences of productivity reduction, and consequent losses will therefore be largely
uncompensated, unless measures are adopted to minimise these aclverse effects.
In addition, there are likely to be problems associated with soil compaction on temporary haul routes
which connect borrow pits with the roads, again in terms of a reduction in productivity. Most farmners
use simple country ploughs for land preparation, which are capable of working the soil only to a
shallow depth, and it seems likely that this would not be sufficient to break up compacted layers
caused by the passage of heavily-laden trucks. Even where mechanical rotovators are used, these
only work the soil to a depth comparable with that which can be achieved with a country plough.
Although the effects of such compaction in terms of productivity reduction are unlikely to be as
severe as those associated with borrow extraction, they will nevertheless be significant unless
suitable measures such as shallow subsoil ripping are adopted to restore the land after borrow
extraction ceases.
It is proposed that a suitably qualified and experienced national NGO should be appointed by RHD to
advise and assist landowners on matters related to borrow pit lease arrangements and to plan, oversee
and manage post-use reinstatement support. Local NGOs should also be appointed on each section of
road to assist in implementation of the reinstatement process on a day-to-day basis, where these are
in a position to provide the necessary technical expertise.
Given the importance of minimising the effects of borTow extraction in relation to the overall
environmental performance of the project, and the likelihood that RHD may find it difficult to obtain
local financing for the programme, since it represents a departure from the convention; it is proposed
thlat:
v The Bank shouldfinance, as a supporting TA project, the costs associated with involvement of the
managing NGO, together with the costs of providing specific specialist technical support (as
indicated in the sections which follow), and part of the costs of local NVGO involvement, especially
those relating to training.
Only limited control can be achieved under the construction contracts in relation to the actions of
contractors in relation to borrow pit development, since private arrangements with third parties are
involved. However, clauses will be included in the construction contracts as follows, as a means of
reducing the possibility of exploitation of unsophisticated landowners by unscrupulous contractors,
minimising the area of land affected, and to facilitate post-use reinstatement:
* contractors must make all reasonable efforts, to the satisfaction of the Engineer, to minimise the
area of land which will be affected by borrow operations. Ihe common practice of extensive
Page 22



Feeder Roads Type A Project                                   Environmental Management Plan
shallow excavation will not be considered acceptable by the Engineer. Unless it can be
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Engineer that there are exceptional circumstances, borrow
pits on each section of road shall not be, on average, be spaced at intervals of less than 1.5km.
* contractors shall erect and maintain near the margin of each borrow pit, a pernanent reference
benchmark, of pattern, materials and dimensions acceptable to the Engineer, so as to facilitate
determination of the volume of borrow excavated. In the event of the benchmark being damaged
or removed, the reference level shall be deemed by the Engineer to be that of the highest ground
level in the undisturbed plots which immediately surround the pit.
*  topsoil to a depth of 0.3m shall be removed prior to excavation of borrow, and shall be stockpiled
at one or more of the pit margins, and shall not be used in any way in connection with
construction of the permanent or temporary works.
*  no continuous length of borrow pit may cross Thana or Union boundaries, so as to avoid potential
ownership or rights of use disputes between persons from different villages, in the event that
group usage of the site takes place after reinstatement. The maximum length of a single pit shall
not exceed 100m.
*  the contractors are required to produce a certificate for each proposed borrow area and borrow
access track, for approval by the Engineer, and before any site preparation or borrow extraction
begins, containing the following information:
*  A site plan showing the location, area, current land use, names of landowners and the
boundaries of individual holdings, together with photographs which adequately illustrate
the present state of the site and its immediate surroundings under non-flooded conditions.
*  Confirmation, in the form of signatures or witnessed marks,- from each landowner that
satisfactory agreement has been reached with the contractor regarding payment for use of
the land for borrow extraction, the period of the agreement including the expected date
on which borrow extraction is to commence, and the date by which all reinstatement
works will have been completed.
C  A statement setting out clearly a plan and specification for the works the contractor will
undertake in relation to post-use reinstatement, accompanied by signatures or witnessed
marks from each landowner that they agree to the proposed reinstatement works.
*  A statement from the appointed NGO that the landowners concerned were fully briefed
by them, prior to conclusion of financial arrangements with the contractor, regarding the
options for post-use reinstatement, the recommended option for the site, and the
implications regarding future productivity, countersigned or marked by each landowner.
Copies of approved certificates shall be given to the contractor and each of the landowners
concerned.
The above provisions, unless they fail to be enforced properly, should reduce some of the potentially
adverse effects of borrow pit development on landowners. However, additional measures will be
required to offset productivity losses. Over a 3-year construction programme, reinstatement measures
would need to cover about 80 new sites each year. The options for reinstatement are described in the
sections which follow.
3.3.2  Reinstatement for Agriculture
Some landowners may choose to have their land reinstated for agriculture, but if pits are deeper than
about 1-2m, it is unlikely that this would be the most satisfactory option. Where agricultural
reinstatement is preferred, the lease agreements with the contractors should require that on
completion of borrow extraction, stockpiled topsoil should be spread evenly over the whole site and
levelled. However, problems related to deterioration in drainage conditions will still remain.
Page 23



Feeder Roads Type A Project                                     Environmental M anagement Plan
The feasible options for reinstatement will depend on site conditions, and in particular on the local
water table regime and groundwater quality, and will need to be determined on a case-by-case basis.
They will also depend on the preferences of the landowner, parnicularly in relation to the extent to
which he is prepared to make changes to his cropping system. In most cases, it seems likely that
some degree of experimentation will be necessary over several seasons to find the-optimum solution.
Options which need to be considered include the introduction of alternative crops, modifications to
timing of planting, and changes in seed varieties to suit the changed conditions. Improvements to the
roads will result in improved access to markets for agricultural produce, and it is possible that
farmers would consider switching production on affected land from rice to higher value crops such as
vegetables, which would have the improved market access, lovier transport costs and reduced in-
transit losses in quality, which are necessary to achieve the higher returns needed to make more
labour- and input-intensive cultivation viable.
A further option would be for a farmer to accept reduced production from a reinstated borrow pit, and
to concentrate on making up the deficit through improving income from production on other,
unaffected parts of his holding, either through yield increase of crops within his existing cropping
pattern, or by partial switching to crops which have higher producer margins. This may be the only
feasible agriculture-based option in locations where groundwater ilevels are high for most of the year.
Crop yields in general are relatively low compared with those achieved in other parts of the world
with broadly similar climate and soils, and reflect the low usage of inputs such as improved seed
varieties and fertiliser. A farmer who has accepted payment for use of his land for borrow extraction
should be in a position to make the necessary investment in higher inputs to achieve improved yields.
Whatever options are selected by the landowners concerned, technical support will be necessary in
terms of agricultural extension services. The Thana agricultural extension services are unlikely, on
their own, to be able to provide an adequate level of support, as they already suffer budgetary and
expertise problems in connection with their existing programmes. It is therefore proposed that the
programme should be coordinated, managed and at least partially implemented by the same NGO
appointed to assist landowners in connection with the borrow pit lease agreements, with additional
inputs from the Thana agricultural extension services and such local NGOs as have the requisite
technical skills.
Preliminary studies should be carried out by the managing NGO, prior to contractor mobilisation,
with the objective of reviewing the options for site reinstatement, or the alternative of increasing
productivity on unaffected land, so that appropriate recommendations can be made to landowners
before leases with contractors are signed.
The work carried out by the managing NGO in relation to assistance to landowners with lease
agreements will -allow definition of the probable numbers who will require support in connection
with reinstatement for agricultural purposes or improvement of productivity on the unaffected part of
the holding, and will form the basis for establishing a definitive scope of work, programme etc. for
post-use assistance. At this stage, the contribution to support activities that can be made by the
relevant Thana authorities and by local NGOs should also be established. Training schemes for those
who will be involved in programme implementation also need to be formulated and executed prior to
the completion of borrow activities on each section of the works.
From a technical viewpoint, the success of the programme vwill be improved if an innovative
approach is adopted to identifying options for improving income from either reinstated sites or other
land. The managing NGO will probably need support to come up with truly innovative but practical
approaches. It is therefore proposed that:
Page 24



Feeder Roads Type A Project                                  Environmental Mlanapement Plan
* The Bank shouldfinance (within the overall TA support programme indicated above) provision of
technical support to the managing NGO, with particular reference to assisting in the
identifcation and evaluation of options for borrow pit reinstatement and improvement of
production on unaffected land.
a The TA should comprise provision of the services of an Agricultural Extension Specialist with
experience of rice production and the introduction of other crops to paddy-based production
systems. An input totalling 5 months will be required, with 3 months in connection with the first
year 's programme and I month in each of the succeeding two years.
3.3.3  Reinstatement as Fish Ponds
Fish production in reinstated borrow pits is the most obvious potentially productive use for what in
many cases will be a large hole, which seasonally or permanently contains water. In many parts of
the country, farmners have already developed fish ponds in rice lands, and not just in low-productivity
lands. Clearly fish production must provide a return which is at least comparable with that which can
be achieved from rice production, in spite of the higher labour requirement.
As an alternative to development of managed ponds, which will involve labour and capital inputs,
some farmers may prefer to rely on natural recruitment of fish during flooding for pond stocking, and
either harvest the ponds themselves, or lease out this activity to others. This is not to be
recommended on the grounds of sustainability, since ponds used in this way will be cleared of fish
completely once they start to dry out, and there will be no natural return of fish to the rivers as
floodwaters recede. Such usage will therefore contribute to the continued depletion of fish stocks.
However, it has to be accepted that almost certainly some landowners will prefer this option.
The Third EU-financed Integrated Food Assisted Development Project (IFADEP3) includes a pilot
project (currently underway) for fish farming in borrow pits which are being developed in connection
with improvements to 4 FRBs in Magurah and one in Rajshahi (Anon. 1996). Under this scheme, it
has been agreed with LGED that contractors will not be allowed to employ the usual practice of
extensive shallow borrowing, and that only a single, relatively large pit will be allowed on each road.
Extraction of borrow will be carried out in such a way that the shape of the pit on completion
conforms with the specification for a fish pond, at least to the depth of extraction. Final shaping of
the pit, including any additional deepening, will be carried out by local groups, organised and
supported by NGOs, who will ultimately establish and run the fish pond. The pits are leased from the
landowner concerned for a period of at least 7 years from cessation of borrow extraction, with
payment taking the form of 10% of the production. When the lease period comes to an end, the pit
will be handed back to the owner as an operating fish production unit.
Although it is too early for conclusions to be drawn regarding long-term viability, there is no doubt
that the overall concept is sound from environmental, financial and social viewpoints. It is proposed
that this concept should form the basis for fish pond development within the FRA project.
The EMP for the Nalka-Bonpara component of RRMP3 (DHV 1996) also contained proposals for
fish production in borrow pits which were broadly comparable with the IFADEP3 pattern, but it is
understood that this proposal was rejected by RHD. However, recent discussions with the RHD FRA
Project Director have resulted in agreement that the option of fish production in borrow pits should
be offered to landowners whose land is used for borrow extraction in connection with the FRA
project.
Landowners with an interest in managed fish ponds may decide to develop them themselves as a
group, since the area of each pit will most probably extend over land owned by a number of people.
Page 25



Feeder Roads Type A Project                                   Environmental Management Plan
Alternatively, owners may prefer to lease pits for development by local groups organised by NGOs,
but with themselves being members of a group. Part of the initial planning process to be carried out
by the managing NGO, operating in conjunction with local NGOs, would be to find out from the
landowners concemed which option they prefer. Recommendations regarding the most appropriate
formn-of pond development would also be made at this stage.
The proposals made by the contractors in relation to reinstatement of borrow pits, which have to be
approved by the Engineer before extraction can commence, would make provision for general
shaping of the pit to the proposed extraction depth, so that it conforms with the basic requirements
for fish pond development. Further pond development would be carried out by the groups concerned.
Ponds should be no longer than 100m, with a maximurn width of 25m. If borrow pits exceed this
width, final shaping will need to include the construction of internal bunds.The precise shape of
individual ponds will depend on local conditions. In most areas, it seems likely that silty sand
material will predominate, for which side slopes of 1:2 v:h would be appropriate. A Im wide berm
needs to be constructed on each side of the pit to facilitate fishing operations. Provision also needs to
be made for a small level area on which the person responsible for pond security can erect a house,
since stealing of fish is a major problem in most areas. Formation of flood protection bunds (where
these are necessary) would be carried out by the groups during the post-extraction phase, using
material extracted from the bottom of the pit in connection with providing the optimum depth for fish
production, since it seems likely that additional deepening will be required in many cases.
Formation of participant groups will be organised by local NGOs in much the same way as proposed
for the tree planting programme, and will take place towards the end of the borrow extraction
activities on each section of road, and all necessary plans and arrangements will be finalised. Group
numbers need to be limited to between 6 and 10 per hectare of pond, so that each gains sufficient
income to maintain interest.
The decision on what form of production should be established at each site will depend partly on
group preferences, but will also have to take into account matters such as local water quality,
flooding heights etc, and proximity to markets. The options will be identified by the local NGO and
put forward to the groups for their decision. The basic options are:
* operate the pond as a hatchery/fingerling production enterprise or as an adult fish production unit
* what types of fish to produce: some species are slower growing than others; some such as carp
need fresh water and some, such as Tilapia and prawns will tolerate brackish water
* operation as a seasonal pond with restocking very year, or as a perennial pond with continuous
production of species which will reproduce in the pond
In the case of groups comprising only landowners who have received lease fees from contractors, in
theory there wouid be no need for access to credit facilities for pond stocking, fertiliser etc. However,
it is likely that any fees paid would be spent well before pond establishment takes place, and access
to credit will be needed. In the case of groups comprising the poor and landless, credit access will
definitely be needed, and will be arranged through the local NGO. Depending on the type of
production selected, credit of around Tk2O,000 will be needed to meet initial establishment costs.
Similar amounts will probably need to be made available on a revolving annual basis to finance
operations over the first two or three years.
Both landowner and landowner/poor and landless groups will need training and technical support by
the local NGO in aspects such pond and water quality managernent, since successful pond fishery
development requires a fairly high level of expertise. Training may also be needed in relation to
running a business, marketing and the use of credit. NGO members acting as trainers may themselves
Page 26



Feeder Roads Type A Project                                   Environmental Management Plan
need training, which would be developed through cooperative arrangements with the Thana fisheries
officers as well as through the managing NGO.
The managing and local NGOs will probably need technical support in planning and executing the
programme. It is proposed 1hat this should:
* be financed by the Bank as part of the overall TA support programme
* take the form of provision of the services of an Inland Fisheries Specialist with experience in
fisheries extension, to advise and assist the NGOs involved in the borrow pit programme on
planning, programming and technical aspects
The local NGOs would take a service fee from the groups they assist, as a percentage of group net
income (probably around 15%). If micro-credit access is provided by the supporting NGO rather than
through other organisations, it would also benefit from interest payments on the loan, which currently
stand at around 15% per annum.
Page 27






Feeder Roads Type A Project                                  Enx ironmental Management Plan
SECTION 4
ORGANISATIONAL ASPECTS
4.1    Management Framework and Overview of Responsibilities
The FRA project is one of several components of the RRMP3 project. During implementation,
environmental management functions will be carried out by several government and non-government
bodies, which will be coordinated and linked through the overall project management framework.
The management structure for the FRA component is outlined in Figure 4.1. In the interests of clarity
of presentation, this shows only the principal components which will be involved in environmental
management, and excludes a large number of elements whose functions are not directly relevant, but
which form part of the overall management structure.
The RRMP3 project will be managed and implemented by RHD and its various sections and zonal
offices under the Chief Engineer. High level management and coordination functions for individual
components of the overall RRMP3 project will be provided through a Project Implementation Office
(PIO) in Dhaka, headed by the Project Civil Works Director (PCWD). The PCWD will be supported
by staff specifically assigned to the PIO, and will also be able to draw on the expertise of other units
within RHD  headquarters as needed. A  small Advisory Unit, which will include an
Environmental/Resettlement Specialist is also to be established, to provide specialist advice and
assistance to the PCWD. For the FRA component, the PCWD will be supported at zonal level by
Project Directors (PDs) located in the Rajshahi, Rangpur, Khulna and Barisal zonal offices.
The PCWD in his role as the 'Engineer', as defined in the construction contracts, will have primary
responsibility for management and coordination of all matters relating to construction supervision
and monitoring, including environmental management. He will be advised and assisted in his
management functions by a joint venture of foreign and local consultants (the construction
supervision and monitoring consultants - CSMC), who will be responsible for day-to-day supervision
and monitoring.
The CSMC Team Leader will be designated as 'Engineer's Representative', and will be the primary
linkage between RHD and the consultants at project (Dhaka) level. His support staff will include
Resident Engineers, based in the various contractors' site offices, who will be responsible for
construction supervision and monitoring at site level. These latter will have a liaison/coordination
role in the linkage between the consultants and RHD at zonal level. Environmental management
responsibilities will be attached to all these positions.
The CSMC team will include a part-time expatriate Environmental Specialist, whose-responsibilities
will include provision of advice and assistance to the consultants' Team Leader and his engineering
staff on environmental matters, including those specifically involved in the implementation of
environmental management functions. The Environmental Specialist will also have a key
liaison/coordination role which will link the consultants and the PAP implementation NGO, and will
also link the consultants with the NGOs responsible for planning and managing the tree-planting and
borrow pit restoration programmes.
In his more general role as overall manager and coordinator of the FRA project, the PCWD will also
have other high level responsibilities and functions, which will cover aspects of environmental
management as well as implementation of the RAP. Since the NGOs responsible for planning and
management of the tree planting and borrow pit restoration programmes will be appointed by, and
will report directly to RHD, the PCWD will also have primary responsibility for these aspects of
environmental management.
Page 28



Feeder Roads Type A Project                                                                                Environimiental Management Plan
Chief Engneer
RHO
Highway Engineering     1iProjec CtI Worksj
EnvironmenViResettlement                  D ( lrector E                                              -  - - - -
Financial Management                (The Englneer)
RHD Arboriculturel
Team Leader (ER)
Constr.Supervision
& Monitoring
Consultants
Team Leader                   Chiet Resettlement              roe      tmni                                        -                   -                           Team Leader                      Teeantn
RAP Implementation       I A            Officer                     ofece Staff                                                                                   Borrow Pit Programme                  TPro Planmtei
NGO                             (FRA)                            i                                                                    I  .                         NGO P.Ga
Engin eerng                      Environmental                         |
I                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tea  Engineer 
[  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~CretDirectr (s)Resident Engineers                                                                                                     BorowPit Programnme                  Tree Planting
Ficid Teems    Lend                            HO~~~~~~~~~Vi Zonat  ie          Sl~p~iin- - --                             IProject Manaers                                         Programme
RAP Implementa ion                Landcqusilion                     hui  Ran              I I             Staff  ilocalN                                                                                & Maoncag  pNG
A                                                                                                                       A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-A
Figure 4.1             Organisational Structure for Feeder Roads Type A Project
Page 29



Feeder Roads Ty pe A Project                                   Environmental Mianagement Plan
4.2    Specific Environmental Management Activities and Responsibilities
4.2.1  Pre-construction Phase
Environmental management during the pre-construction phase is largely concerned with ensuring
that environmental matters have been adequately recognised and addressed in project plans, designs
and contract documents.
Prior to contractor mobilisation and the commencement of construction, environmental management
covers four principal groups of activities, some of which have already been completed, but are
subject to review. Matters relating to land acquisition and preparation and implementation of the
RAP have been excluded, since they fall very largely outside the scope of mainstream environmental
management activities, although they obviously are related. The end February 1998 status of pre-
construction phase activities was as follows:
* Environmental review of all project roads (scoping), and detailed EIA as necessary for roads
included in the first phase of construction (250km). This activity was completed with submission
of the Environmental Review report by the Phase I study and design consultants (SDC) in
February 1998, which concluded that the nature and scope of the works to be carried out on all
road sections within the project would not give rise to unacceptable levels of environmental
impact, provided that appropriate, specified mitigation measures are adopted and fully enforced. It
was also concluded that detailed EIA was unnecessary for any of the project road sections. These
conclusions are however subject to review as indicated below.
* Preparation of a detailed Environmental Management & Monitoring Plan (EMP). This activity
will be completed on submission of this report, which constitutes the project EMP, and has been
prepared by the SDC. The EMP is however subject to review as indicated below.
* Preparation of detailed designs which give due consideration to minimisation of adverse impacts
and benefit enhancement. This activity will have been completed by SDC by the end of March
1998 (subject to review), for approximately 250km of road sections which will be rehabilitated in
the first, and part of the second year's construction programmes. Designs for the remaining
250km will be prepared by the CSMC.
* Preparation of tender and construction contract documentation which contains appropriate clauses
to allow control of impacts arising from construction activities. The current status is as indicated
above for detailed designs.
* Review of Phase I environmental reports, designs and contract documents, to confirm that
appropriate conclusions have been drawn from the environmental studies which have been carried
out, and that suitable measures have been incorporated in the EMP, designs and documentation to
reduce adverse environmental impacts to an acceptable level. This activity will be carried out by
the CSMC, as one of the priority tasks following mobilisation.
Primary executive responsibility for ensuring that environmental matters relating to the overall
project have been adequately recognised and addressed and, in particular, that suitable measures for
impact control have been incorporated in the designs and contract documents for the Phase I road
sections, lies with the SDC Team Leader, although day-to-day responsibility for these aspects lies
with the members of his environmental and design/contract documentation teams. The Team Leader
of the CSMC and his team members will have similar responsibilities in relation to designs and
contract documents prepared for the Phase 2 sections.
Although review of environmental documentation and the environmental components of Phase I
designs and contract documents, by the CSMC, is an environmental monitoring exercise, this is use
of monitoring as a management tool, and the review process is therefore an integral part of the
environmental management process. Primary responsibility for this aspect will lie with the Team
Leader of the CSMC, although the process will largely be carried out by the Environmental
Specialist, working in conjunction with the engineering team members.
Page 30



Feeder Roads Type A Project                                     En;ironmental NManagement Plan
4.2.2   Construction Phase
Most of the project environmental management activities will be carried out during the construction
phase, since this is the phase when most impacts could be expected to arise. Management will very
largely be concerned with controlling impacts arising through the actions of contractors, through
enforcement of the construction contract clauses related to protection of the environment as a whole
and the components within it. In this respect, it is important to recognise that successful mitigation of
construction impacts can only be achieved if the environmental protection measures, as set out in the
construction contracts, are properly enforced.
Overall primary responsibility for construction supervision and contract management, and therefore
for environmental management during construction, will lie with the Engineer as defined in the
construction contracts ie. the PCWD. However, certain powers relating to day-to-day supervision will
be delegated by the PCWD to the Engineer's Representative (ER) ie. the Team Leader of the CSMC.
The ER will have responsibility for ensuring that all site environmental management and monitoring
aspects are dealt with promptly and properly by his staff, including the Resident Engineers and other
site staff. The site supervision staff will be responsible for environmental management and
monitoring at the lowest organisational level, but their role in the management chain is crucial if
effective impact control is to be achieved.
The CSMC Environmental Specialist will be responsible for identifying the necessary procedures for
effective environmental management and monitoring, and will make recommendations to the ER for
their incorporation in the overall construction supervision and monitoring framework. This will cover
matters such as the development of checklists of key points which should be monitored on a routine
basis during construction and reporting mechanisms for ensuring that appropriate action is taken,
should monitoring reveal that this is necessary.
Particular attention will be paid to establishing procedures whereby emergency action can be taken
by site staff in the event of the contractor acting in a manner which will cause immediate and
significant environmental damage, for example through the felling of trees which are protected under
the contract, interference with utility services, or contamination of groundwater or surface water
through inappropriate handling of contaminating substances.
The Environmental Engineer will also be responsible for providing basic training in the management
and monitoring of environmental aspects to REs and site staff, to be carried out prior to the
commencement of construction, and on a refresher basis during construction as required.
The initial training course will include matters such as:
* an introduction to the concepts of environmental management and monitoring, the aims and
objectives, and the relationship with other construction supervision and monitoring activities
* a review of impacts which will be managed during construction, and the mechanisms which will
be adopted in impact control, with particular reference to key impacts
* the role of monitoring as an environmental management tool and the procedures which will be
adopted, including the way in which site checklists are to be used in routine monitoring
* procedures to be adopted in the event of emergency action needing to be taken to prevent
environmental damage occurring, or to minimise the effects if damage has already occurred
The content of refresher 'courses will be determined largely on the basis of the periodic review
findings of the Environmental Engineer, as referred to below. In general terms, these would focus
Page 31



Feeder Roads Ty pe A Project                                  Environmental Manaeement Plan
clearly on specific aspects of site level management and monitoring which have been found to be
unsatisfactory, for whatever reason.
During his periodic visits to the sites, the Environmental Engineer will carry out an evaluation of the
effectiveness of. environmental management and monitoring, and will make recommendations to the
ER for modifications to procedures, the need for adoption of additional control measures, and on any
necessary actions to be taken regarding remedial measures etc, on the basis of his review findings.
The Environmental Engineer will also have a role to play in relation to liaison with the NGOs
responsible for RAP implementation and the tree planting and borrow pit restoration programmes.
However, in view of the fact that his overall input will be relatively short (approximately 6 months in
total), and his periodic visits during construction will necessarily have to be short and infrequent
(probably twice a year for about 3 weeks), responsibilities in this respect will have to be shared with
the ER at Dhaka level, and the REs at site level. Consequently his liaison function will be more
concerned with the broad integration of NGO programmes with other project implementation aspects,
than with day-to-day site-specific matters.
4.2.3   Operational Phase
The only key adverse potential impact which is anticipated during the operational phase is the
impedance to boats arising from bridge soffit levels having been set too low. This is a design matter,
and environmental management in this respect has already been covered in section 4.2.1.
Continued enjoyment of the benefits arising from implementation of the FRA improvement project
will only be achieved if effective routine and periodic pavement and embankment maintenance is
carried out in a timely manner. Environmental management and monitoring in this respect will be the
responsibility of RHD maintenance units, with implementation being carried out through the zonal
and district offices.
Maintenance of the roadside trees which will be planted under the project will be the responsibility of
local groups organised by the RHD Arboricultural Unit, through the zonal offices. In general, it is not
expected that much maintenance will be required once the trees are established, apart from thinning
at 6 years, and routine pruning at intervals as necessary.
Environmental management relating to fish ponds and other measures related to borrow pit
reinstatement will be a matter for the private individuals and groups concerned. In the case of fish
ponds operated by groups, long term support over the lease period will be provided through the local
NGOs concerned with initial establishment. In the case of reinstatement measures for agriculture, it
is expected that no long-term management measures will be needed.
4.2.4 Summary of Management Measures and Responsibilities
Table 4.2.4 summarises the potential impacts which are to be controlled, the mitigation measures
which are to be adopted, the environmental management actions which are to be implemented, and
indicates which organisations and individuals within those organisations will be responsible for
ensuring that the management actions are efficiently implemented.
Where mitigation of impacts involves the incorporation of suitable clauses in the construction
contracts (and subsequent enforcement during construction), the provisions to be made in this respect
have been outlined in Table 4.2.4 in the interests of simplicity and brevity of presentation. Full
details are provided in the relevant parts of Section 5 of the SEIA (Mouchel 1998).
Page 32



Table 4.2.2         Summary of Environmental Management Measures
Potential Impctti                           Benefit enihancementlmitigationl measures                                                  Management actions                                                          Executive responnsiblities
Pre-construct)on phSaae
Local poplatin sufers uncerlaete  oces       ProWsitin of hit and thea/ knafntmttcn regarding She protect& Sits ipicatlons  Esttobishemeal t ofacedurrs and organlsatonat arrangemntns f  arn effective intamatiun   HGO responsible tar RAP preparu/srnAmplemantatlon. RHDO/ank to ctreck
land & ether tas  acqulst  adlsing tron wrvy   in tlrrat of land & peprly eqthsn                                   disanrinatloe progranan to affected uDmnmhnties. to b inluded in the RAP.                 thal su able pronvilon has been madleR
learn   acvtntes,  Ved   subequantp    by                                                                                                                                                                                                petalrlpeelto.wrigI
commen oem end           n aealtnsprocedut                                                                         tmtpterntafron ciuse praramme to be undertaken Immediately prior to commencement ortihe land   NGO   esponsible tor RAP  Prepsaoimplerenion  working  In
apldslboi proces, and subseqLtensty as naeessary, oaweing all affected communilies       coordination whh the land acquisition teams and local autlrit/es In the
areas concemed. CRO wlthin PiO, responsible tor FRA project land
bacoqusiion manetm, to ensure effective lnformaJoen  dissenination to at
its Sdan  .5.1 f SPAt                                                                                                                                     wtha require s.
Ftntatn   hedrdphip asodated waits iradeqtte  Miiniluto of land c quishion                                         Protectdesignsto rnimaiahe need far land acuisleon tothe meaimteasihe ectent               ooCiCrMC
or.pnston  to  land, pboperp  S  ose  af
blU resa, enpomPkt etc
Paymeet d KlA and fair corspenaton to Et affcted parbast             Identifcaion of land a property aqusitron etc requirements                                SDC /CSMC to prepare mouza plans showing land which wilt be ffected
RAP owsnpensaton mabtx to make prosison far cormpenoation or other assislance to Ihose directtv or  NGO responsible far RAP preparationarmplementation. RHD/Bank to
;                                                           indirectty effected by land acqoulilion                                                   ensure that adequate provisons have been made to saleguard PAPs
Auatrarles to ensure proper assessment and theely payment of oompensation, pror to   CRO wmthen PIOiDC/Min. o Land. The Bank to ensure that a tuitable
commencement of any constbcton acivties one  secon ot road affecked by tand aucqiition   coenant i inator/ed in the credit agreenti conceinring cnomnancemedi ot
constroction pri ori completion of compensation payments at any section
of road.
Ful imptementation of the provisions made In the RAP for overseeing and monitorng RAP execudon   NGO responsible tor RAP preparation/Amplementetlon. CRO withab PIO to
and the pronn d asoislonrso to PAPe who need I                                           be responsible for ovenertngt satisactory execedlon ot the RAP
____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ tee     Sacas     5.4.1  od     SPlAt
Delays to proect liplementron end tho  benefit  Preparaion Of a crompleat record Of exssting buidings immediately pr  to  Preparation of a dated video recording, taken hm a moving vehicle, which shows both mad margins  CSMC
lag assoctated  with it udukent cmtpeatete on   eormcenemnt o the land taluhlfion process                          and SO nearby stuctrues
ctairn
Advice to local comrunities ot the existence o the n/dOa. thai any construcioDn slarted after the date   NGO responsible ton RAP preparatlnnimpiementaoon In coordinalion with
of tie recording may not be oovered by the conrpensaton process, and that fraudulent wmpensatlion   the land actuisition teams and local authorities
(see Sectlrm  5.5.2 of SELA)                                         dalams will be appropriate/ aa with by the autorilis
Constnuction phase
Genae  adverse Impacts edtconstuction ete    Conautr    to behavehr n environmentatly responsible manner           Descripton a the works in Indicate that the Bank and RHD view environmental masers to be ot  SDC/CSMC
onsiderable Importance and that the contract will be administered accordingoy
Brieftng o appointed contractors on mblxsation. regarding sensitive environmental matter  and   The Engineer
relanrcement of advice reganding contract adainistratlon: contracts to be administered according/a
Increased eaplboymnt opportunetes far the lo %cal ituction conteds n require mrximum uoe at tal labour, contractors in  orctusir ot appropriale dauses In constdction oniracts.                             SDC
poputaton                                    lk  potine steps in recuN wmnen, the desitute and landles. wth a
dininmm d 30% ot tht woorktrce i be tamale and at teest 25% od wosis Ito  Montoring of compliance during constracfon and appropriate administration a the contracs  The Engneer/ER/ftRE S aia staff
be csared out by labour
trtee SectIon 5t3.1 a SdElAt'
Lons of inedelda  t eeocled st reining and   Mialeisatln  f the qeed ta fetling of exiisng trees                   Appropriate designs to be prepared which rinimise ihe need tor tree tiling. Options tar reducing tree   SDC/CSMC
widentng d arrbentxtnkrla                                                                                         t.Inas tu ba Investigaled, during design. Alignment in be advusted to avoid felling t large or signiticant
tetes wherever ahis is easible
Cont'ruction coentractl tn make provbsian tor penalty tr the conrrracors  tncluslon ot appropriate clause In conhtruction contracts Monitoring of compliance durng constrcon   SDC/CSMC. Moriting and entorcement by the EngineedEr/ REs   sire
urrncessarty fetling er damaging tna.                                and approprate administration ot contracts                                               staf
AN large trees. or those oa religious or cultural signifeance lying on the embankments or within ICm om  CSMC
the to, whtich are not to be tailed or damaged l be identiffed en sile plans. Trees not to be tailed or
damaged l be cleartY marked.
tmnpternbtlon d replard Smee plabntg programme                       Detailed reptenting programme in be prepared and Implemented ouside the cdil works coniracts,  RHD Arboricullural Uni in coordination with the appointed NGO, who will
under the management of an expenenced NGO appointed by RHD. with appropriate technical  Identity and organise loi groups for Implementation
(tee Secdan 3.2 d this EMtPt                                         assistance
Lons  o  prductIe land tar bomw  ptb  and   Minrlsatia ofd bm reuiremenf                                          Options tor borrow miniriSatiom  obeinoesgted duringdellaeddesign.                        SDC/CSMC
adeerse tart   affect          Slaod   with
epltation d tahnt landownerts by contracors  Equitable tgntemesb tr bartow pi developmtent l be reacled by contscrs  Exprienced NGO, acceptable to the Bank and RHD, to be appointed to advise and assist landowners   RHD IPCVWD )to appoint NGO
and lahoers. Lease aograrsentosto tPocptr what post-use  aboran  tn relation  barrow  grereeents and post-us. tncom erestoration opoons.
weorhs arm ID be carried or1A by fth cortaclors
Conb 5  to biubmRit pattt for borrow expiotaton and siae mestrtion for  Incusion of appropriate rlause In consructioncoated; monKoring a complince durng consnidion   SDC/CSMC.
eppraval beore commrindring any woreKs and to imptarnest suaIh pproved    nd appropriate edrninstrhion of oDntracts
plans.
Coahucdore to be atdwtad Stat plane Involving the usatu  pactise of tenstrle  Decriptorm aSthe works taincude n  appropriate statement                         SDCICSMC. M otng and entforement by the Engineer/ERREs a site
steaws dida boorwing Adtwnt t   approved unless there are excepbtin                                                                                           staff
drcurstncee.
terplemapttllon of support prongtmes to affectd landorers In Income  Drtaled progranmies iOVneng post-use resbrrdotn tor *grtculture/ Improvement ct pnoductivity on  NHO appolnled by NGO  in connection wh pre-extraction  dvice to
restoatem tasinghorn rdtducio In pruducrave apacity bte lmwl         unaftteced pats ot hodirss ortsh pond devexprnt lobe prepared and implemenled ater extradtion  landowners to prepare detailed pians and to mayage execution through
has ceased.                                                                              local NGOs (with addliotnal technical assistance  In planning end
Ert-on dnkmenb tattZt b detitrea Secdbn3.3 SdthiEMP)  i_                                                               l                                                              Implementation)
d the a mnl   almuarsnd pavemen   tlopes, and watering d  laid ItuO  as necessary untN ground cover tauly  aWropriate admInstratiOn ot contcts                                                              staff
attae   sttY Ated xine     of erath  read    established.
'Wve eroson proteceun meseumte to be crnsbtedd at tnsentta tiles uting   Senltive sati to be Identiied; oPtiOns tor pwrteello, nessores to be lnvestgated, and suatable  SDC/CSMC
natural ietat where  possRdbe.                                       meeTISUs l be icorporated in proiect design, spcttcatniaas etc
("ate Section 544 o4 SEIA)
Page 33
p.  r I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Table 4.2.2         Summary of Environmental Management Measures
Potential Impacts                           Benefit enhancement/mitigation measures                                                       Management actions                                                            Executive responsibilities
Dagsoe to rimos running iogonglsde or wro     Retocatl   on any potenfaty ffected ser    prior to omarrnenement of any   Potenbally affected aervnes to be idenbied at eariiest opportunity.                    SOC/CSMC.
gtr   rod  during  consbtucon.  Weeadg  to   rnsburcon wersa.
inteeubOf11UptI,                                                                                                      Servie providers to be rrotied ot need ror nreorabon and equired prolimorming to avoid consructlon   RHO (PCvvD)
delays
.Implementotion of reloabon woreK  to be comptlted by service providers before  ny of main   Service provider
corrnstucto works pmceed, t acordance vAth previously agreed pogramme
Contrctrs to be responsible fbr Identfying and sateguarding serc       Indtusion of appropriate cause In consbton oDntracs; monitoring ot compliance during constctlon   SDC/CSMC. Monitoring ad enforcement by the Engineer/EiUREs 6 site
adjacent to the works, end tor comrpenisatng Service providers for any   and epproprate adminisration of onbacts                                                  staf
ecidentat damage to suc h services.
__see SectIon 5.5 3 of SEIA_
Crtres   woitd           ptesence  bromiag   Cotactors to provide mmt sitb  equipped and Mtaed site  mergiency  ntdusion of appropiate cmonitoringofcompliance  ring  nshuction   SDC/CSMC Monitoring and enforcement by the Engineer/RiRs & sie
pr_sm   orn  attldy    trabred tkocl medicat  mtedical tOibeM                                                        and apprpnsate adornistatoiro of nbwtc                                                      staff
(See Secibon 5.5.4 of SEIA)
tnroplete bpost-use Cesreio and retstemstnt  Contractor to prepare sile restoration plans for apprval, and to Impiemnt  Indusion of appropnate clauses  o consn kction contracts; montorng  of complance during   SOCDCSMC. Monitoring and enforcement by the Eng1neerwitRREs & nsle
of ba   caM  ad other temporary work site.  Sach plans flly por to derobti1sation   AN tenporary works sies to be    onsbtructionandappmpriatesdministratonofconracts                                            staff
tat     tosa of tend productivity or additional  nrobed by the conbtctor, prior to use
coos or b w          to reabe land                                                                                   A sites to be photographed to provide a record or pre-use stale                             CSMC
l0012 to Irrdude onminated lump sume for reinstatement of emporary Siles.                  SDC/CSMC
________ _______ ________ ______   itee     Section  5.5.5   of SEtA)__                                       _  _   _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _
PdiS Aof d tend gronde  r  Wnd surfce wrter  Conrcs to prepare for approvol detailed sie envirsmental plans for the   Indunion o  approprate clauses  o cnstruction contras; monitoring of ompliance durng   SDCCSMC. Monitodng and enorcement by the EngineerdERPRES & site
ritn  ibow  saIry   and  other w e  and   base caps arnd other Work  es.t. whcr reake adequate prvison for Use   constuctiaonedappropdSteadministatonofcontracts                                                 stff
Spisages                                      disposal of dA wastes, and prevention of spillagn, leakage of pollng
mawteras 54c.
Contreci  to be reqtulrd b pa y    costs essocatad ltlh dcea,ning uP sny    an sbove                                                                              SDC/CSMC. Monitoong and enrorcement by the Engineer/ERlRES & site
poAution  aused by ther sctvties and to pay biA cOmpensation to those                                                                                             staff
affected.
______ ______ ______ ______ ______ (55    Section   5.6.6  of SEIA)
Contractor s  watr  abstracion  reult     t   Contracbr to moke suitable arrangenents for oes Supply and, to provide asn  Indusonin o  apprmpnate caules in  oDnstruction contracts; monitoring of compliance durng   SDCUCSMC. Monitoring and enorcement by the EngineerrRES & site
oMrpeton ibr grcarce water rnesutce with tKcal dtemRav wpply to any users affeced. by ontacto  abstraction.          construcion and appnopdiae administration of contracts                                      staff
usrs                                          laee Section .5.57 oi SEiA)
Consruction  barsic   susing  pavemnt  and   Contractorsnd *unboontao, to use appropriate vehicles. and to comply  Inclusion ot appropriate cdauses in constrution contracts; monioring o0  compirance dunng   SDC/CSMC  Monitor,ng and enforcement by the EngineerEiR/RfEs & s,te
stoictua daa  dee to oveirteding. kresse t   wih legal g     vehide and side toad imi.                                onstouction and appropriate adminisntratin ot contracts                                    stuff
conr_gae . rnd tnrused roed sefrty heonts
Contractnrs to repair damege at owm expense                            as above                                                                                    S above
Contwators to minimise med sshb bazards and toconvenience to oter mad   as above                                                                                  as above
ases by takingrt all appropriate measures.
(se Section  .5.8 of SEIA)
rddgeirtnortotefe,tog wih nragation            Contrctors to programme end eeckute alt in-waterway operations on    rcdusion oA approprnate dauses in construction contracts; monitong       compliance during   SDCICSMC. Monitonng and enforcement by the Engiireer/iREsR   & ste
"able waterways so as not to Impede navigation.                        construdion and appropdate administration of contracts                                     staff
l(se Section 5.50 of SELA)
Road sy   hasrds asociated wih temporary   Contrators to faks all reasonable measures to minimise Interference with  Indusion of appmprate claues Is construction contacts; monitoring of compliance dudng   SDC/CSMC  Monloring and enforcemel by the EngineerEfiREs   snte
traffc d   i5s                                trefflo iow and to provide sate transit of dilersrons                  cansurtn end appropdare administration of contracts                                         stia
( saee Sedlon 5.510 of SEiA)                                                     _       _        _       __CSMC
Creaton d  fuel*ood  hortage for the loal  MintiSeon O the need for new bdrick tor use In Wsemnent mterials           The spedfications to make provion fr   use of HB and other pavement materials i the lower  SDUCSMC
po noIs"l 5eugh Sie    Vse hI ktlt sw    o                                                                           pavement foyers to the manmurn eert   n possie.
cks tC emIbdot. aNd ctacto  ue Of
toetesod br woo4n  at at bane camps, and  AS bdrJc dIAeed to st to be fmo duly Ocenred ldins acoompanied by a   Indusion of appropriate dauses to constmscson contracts; monining  of compliance durng   SDC/CSMC. Monitoring and enforcement by the EngineeriERfREs 6  ite
idrldaindiatott tc r ft resoure.               eslid certificate showAng Stt OS Wit crnced baa nso used iemood in their  construction and approPriat administratio   contracts                                   staff
Po    on.                                          ~~~~~~~~~~as above                                                                           an above
Contractors to une coal, kbroness. gas or other son-fuseiwood material br
hasting blhumen and for domentic ptrposs at base oamps
( ee Secion 5.511 o SEIA)
Alr po            mtii fre hCt-55 plaete      Opwbon  end maintenance to be to 00cordance  with manuctunWrs   Inclusion of appropnat   auses t  constucton contacts; monitoding of copliance dunng   SDC/CSMC. Monitng and enforcement by the Engneenr/EPREs C site
pdslstio                                                               oDnstrsucon and appropnile administration of conacts                                       staff
Sitto drm5wndnd wo   botsm vlg5s                                       as above                                                                                   as abovs
p_e,t Ssecton 5,512 of SEIA)
Operatdon iphs
"trr      to bosle on nraigable wd rwL  at  Oss15rw to nb  von tbr adesate tbrt and veaicA ideamrne                   Clernces to he  -coding to the appropdate standards fbr the class of  alerwey conemed. as   SDC/CSMC
ewhttuirt sbuckee                                                                                                    advised by the responsidble uthoties. Nto replacment bidges to have lower sofft levels than the
eoistIn level.
totprsertet  to  trade  oppalt s    focal  tImproved reds tobe propery tlntated                                      Adequate budgetand other resorn tobealloated b routne and periodic maintuane, which h1    RHD zonal maintennce units
att lrsodc        and assoeated  ter5ft.  dag                                                                        be carnied out to an agreed prngrasnae. Routine minor embonknw  maintenance t he anted olby
thm m tod t nfr tnFt                          (noe Sacion 5.3.3 d SEA)                                               local groups of ftt  poor and deslitle.



Feeder Roads Type A Project                                   Environmental lmanagemenm Plan
4.3   Institutional Strengthening
The Environment and Resettlement Unit of RHD, located at headiquarters in Dhaka, which at present
comes under the Chief Engineer, Planning and Development, is currently staffed by one
Superintending Engineer, assisted by one clerk. It is understood t:hat this unit does not currently have
any significant involvement in environmental matters, mainly as a result of inadequate staffing
levels, but also as a result of lack of environmental expertise. It presently functions as an
administrative unit, rather than as a technical unit, and is largelv concerned with matters relating to
land compensation.
Under the Interim reorganisation arrangements, implemnentation of which will be a condition of
negotiations with the Bank, a Technical Services Wing will be created within which will be a Roads
and Environment Division comprising three units: Road Design., Road Safety and Environment and
Resettlement. However, the organisational changes will n,ot result in any increase in staffing levels or
environmental expertise compared with the present situation. Although longer-term macro-
reorganisation of RHD is to be implemented, which may result in improved staffing and functionality
with respect to environmental matters, this will probably not be accomplished in time for significant
involvement of the unit in FRA project. In any case, it would seem that the proposed environmental
functions of the unit would be focused on EIA and environmental studies, rather than on the broader
aspects of environmental management (Report - of the RHD/IDC Sub-Committee on Interim
Reorganisation, August 1997).
Taking the above into account, it is considered inappropriate that additional strengthening of the
Environmental and Resettlement Unit should be recommended for implementation under this EMP.
Furthermore, the nature and extent of impacts associated with implementation of the FRA project,
and the environmental management requirements, are such that they can be dealt with adequately
through the organisational arrangements set out in Sections 4.2.1 and 4.2.2, with additional technical
support relating to the tree planting and borrow pit programmes as set out in Section 3.
Page 34



Feeder Roads Type A Project                                  Environmental Management Plan
SECTION 5
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
5.1    Project Implementation Schedule
The preliminary project implementation schedule (Figure 5.1) is based on the information which was
available in early March 1998.
On the basis of the schedule, contractor mobilisation on the first year's packages will commence on I
December 1998, with construction commencing about I month later. This implies that land
acquisition, for at least some of the roads within the first year's packages, will have been completed
by 1 January 1999 at the latest. It seems unlikely that this will be possible, since land acquisition in
Bangladesh is a lengthy process, and for most road projects takes a minimum of 10-13 months.
Contract periods for individual roads within the first year's packages will vary from 15 to 24 months,
with most being 18 months. It is anticipated that contract periods for roads within succeeding year's
packages will be for similar periods. Consequently, there will be a considerable degree of overlap
between packages for different years, with a number of contracts from two or more year's packages
being implemented concurrently over most of the construction period of 3 years.
5.2    Environmental Management Implementation Schedule
Table 5.2 sets out the latest dates by which specified actions needed to implement the EMP must be
taken. These are based on and coordinated with the project implementation schedule which, as
indicated in Section 5.1, is preliminary. All dates shown in Table 5.2 are therefore provisional, and
will require review once a the project schedule has been finalised.
Page 35



Feeder Roads Type A Project                                                                                                                                                                            Environmcntal Management I'lan
Table 5.1            Preliminary Project Implementation Schedule
1998                                   1999                                   2000                                    2001
J  F  M  A  M  J  J  A  S  OINID  J  F M  A  M  J  J A  SIOINID  J                  MAMJJ ASON                        J  F|M|AIM| JI J A|SO ND
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9 10 11 12 13 14 15 18 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 28 27 28 29 30 1CV  32 3'3131 .58 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 48 47 49
Completion of Phase 1 designs and contract documents
Appointment or constructon supervisiontmonitoring consultants
Review of Phase 1 designs and contract documents
Prequallftcaton of contractors for 1st year works packages
Preparettonlapprovat of tender shorttists for tat year works packages
Tender period for Iet year works packages
Tender evatuation/approvatslaward ot contracts for Ist year works packages
Construction of 1 st year works packages
Preparsaton of designs and contract documents for remaining works
Prequalificationl tendering/award of contracts for 2nd year packages
Construcion of 2nd year packages
Prequaificationl tenderinglaward of contracts fpr 3rd year packages
Construcion of 3rd year packages                                                       _               _                                  1- _ 
SCHEDULExbs                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Pagc 35 A



!-                                                                            L, j . _  ,  ,  _
Feeder Roads Type A Project                                                                                                                                                                                                   Environmental Management Plan
Table 5.2        EMP Action Schedule
Action                                                                                  Responsible body                               Target date                           Comments
Pre-construction
Finalisation and approval of RAP                                                       Appointed NGO to finalise; RHD/Bank to approve  mkd-March 1998                        Must be complete before credit negotiations commence
Implementation of RAP                                                                  Appointed NGO In cortaboration with RHD/OCs and    1 April 1998                       All necessary surveys to be completed on each section before land acquisition process
local authorities                                                                    starts;implementation of assistance on each section to start when the land acquiSition
______________________________________________________________________                      __________________________            procprocessmommence
Checking of SEIA, Environmental Review and EMP documents                               CSMC Env. Eng                                   mid-June 1998                         Must be completed In time for any necessary additional impact control measures to be
_______________________________________________________________________________                                                   IncorporatednoDrpor t In In ede nsg anda tendererdocuments
Checking of environmental aspects of designs and tender documents to ensure inclusion of alt  CSMC Env. Eng/Englneering Team           mid-July 1998                         Must be completed before tender documents are issued for each contract
approptate protection measures
Preparation of environmental checklists and planning of site inspection and reporting procedures  CSMC Env. Eng/Team Leader            early November 1998                   Must be completed before site staff inttial training commences
Initial training of sde staff in the use of environmental checklists, inspection and reporting  CSMC Env. Eng                        mid-November 1998                       Must be carried out before contractor mobilisatlon commences
procedumes                                                                             I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Decision on trnanscing arrangements for NGO to advise and assist with borrow pit programme, and    BanklRHD/PCDW                       mid-March 1998                        Decision needs tobe made befmre credit negotiations with the Bank are concluded
for technical assistance In planning and programming for tree planting and borrow pit programmes
Prequaliticalion of NGOs in connection with the borrow pit reinstatement programme     RHD/PCDW to execute; Bank to approve shortlist    end March 1998                      1month for preparation/issue of prequalification documents; 1 month for NGQs to prepare
prequalifications; 1 month for preparation/approval of shoritlist
Preparation of TOR for NGO involvement in borrow pit programme                         CSMC/RHD/PCDW; Bank to approve TOR              I July 1998                           TOR draft must be completed at least 2 weeks before RFPs are issued to allow lime for
any necessary revision before final Bu.nk approval
Issue of RFPs to shortlisted NGOs and evaluation of proposals                          RHD/PCDW to Issue RFPs and evaluate Proposals    1 AuguA least  month neessary for proposa   p                                  i  bspriov
Bank to approve selected NGO                             _                           for RHD to evatuate proposals . 0.5 months for Bank approval
AppointmenteofNGOto advise and assist with borrow pit programme                        RHD/PCDW. following Bank approval of selected   mid-Odober 1998                       Appointment must be made at least 1.5 months before the first contractor mobilines. to
NGO                                                                                  allow time for NGO mobilisalion and consideration of reinstatemernt options and
_____ ____ ____ _____ ____ ____ ____ strategies
Recruiment & mobilisation of expatriate Fisheries and Agric. Extension Specialists to assist  Bank                                     1 November 1998                       Specialists and managing NGO must start planning and other preparatlon work at least 1
appointed NGO                                                                                                              _                           _                     month prior to contractor mobitisation
Commencement of first phase of borrow pit advice and assistance programmo              Appointed NGO                                   1 December 1998                       Teams must be on site at time of contractor mobilisation
ConstrucUon phase
Commencement of site monitoring                                                        CSMC/EJRCREssite staff; periodic review visits by    1 December 1998                  Inspections to commence during contractor base camp establishment
EnvCEnn
Refresher training of site staff in environmental inspection procedures                CSMC Env. Eng                                   As and when needed through            Timing to be determined on the basis of CSMC Env. Eng. periodic review findings
Site dearance inspection and certification                                             CSMC/ERIREs (+ Env. Eng when avatable during    end February 200 for ist contract to be  To be carried out on each site following completion of construction works
periodic visits)                               complted
Prequalification of NGOs in connection with the tree planting programme                RHD/PCWD/Arboricultural Unit                    mid-June 1998                         1month for preparationfissue of prequalification documents; I month for NGOs to prepare
_____________________________________________________________________________________                                             prequatificetionsequalifica io month m forh preparation/approvalvaloffshh rtllss
Preparatino of TOR for NGO involvement in tree planting programme                      RHD/PCWDlArboricultural Uni- i olaboratioOwith   mi-October1998                       TOR draft must be completed at least 2 weeks before RFPs are Issued to allow ime for
.____________________________________________________________________________    CSMC Cnv Env.                                                                       anE  necessarv revision before final Bank approval
IssueofRFPstoshortiistedNGOOnpreparation of proposalsievaluation and approval          RHDIPCDWto issue RFPs and evaluate proposals;   1 November1998                        At least 1 month necessary for proposal preparation by shortlisted NGOs, and I month
Bank to approve selected NGO                                                         for RHD to evaluate proposals/Bank approval
Appointment of NGO to advise and assist in tree planting programme programme           RHD/PCDW, following Bank approval of selected   1 January 1999                        At least 1 month to be allowed for NGO mobilisation before planting programme is to
NGO                                            ______________commnence
Commencement oftree planting programme planning and execution                          Appointed NGO                                   1 Febiary 1999                       vNGO must mobilise and commence planning activities at least 13 months before actual
_______________________________________________________________________________                                                   planting   Is   scheduledng  to chedul com mencemonnc thenftretr oft  thet completeded roadd secttoo a
Recruitsent & mobilisation of expatriate Social Forestry Specialist to assist appointed NGO  8ank to recruit and arrange mobilisation,  1 Febmay 1999                        Recruitment and arrangements for mobilisation to be coordinated with the above
coordinated with above
Establishment of first iursery                                 ---                    cAppointed NGO                                   1 March 1999                          Must be established at least 12 months before planting commences on the first of the
______________________________________________________________________                                                            completed   road c m pleted aro d ectction
Recruitment of Environmental Specialist for Independent Review                         Bank                                            mid-November 1999                     Should be completed in time for review to be carried out approximalefy 12 months after
commencemrent of the first contract
Implementation of Independent Environmental Review                                     Appointed specalist                             I December 1999                       Should be completed in time for resuis to be taken Into account when reviewing
monitoring and management approach for 2nd years works packages before
_________________________________ ______________ __  construction on these stan1s






Feeder Roads Type A Project                                  Environmental Management Plan
SECTION 6
ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND REPORTING
6.1    General Considerations
Environmental monitoring is an essential tool in relation to environmental management as it provides
the basis for rational management decisions regarding impact control. The monitoring programme for
FRA project will be undertaken to meet the following objectives:
* to check on whether mitigation and benefit enhancement measures have actually been adopted,
and are proving effective in practice
* to provide a means whereby any impacts which were subject to uncertainty at the time of
preparation of the EIA, or which were unforeseen, can be identified, and to provide a basis for
formulating appropriate additional impact control measures
* to provide information on the actual nature and extent of key impacts and the effectiveness of
mitigation and benefit enhancement measures which, through a feedback mechanism, can improve
the planning and execution of future, similar projects
There are two basic forms of monitoring:
* Compliance monitoring, which checks whether prescribed actions have been carried out, usually
by means of inspection or enquiries
i Effects monitoring, which records the consequences of activities on one or more environmental
components, and usually involves physical measurement of selected parameters or the execution
of surveys, to establish the nature and extent of induced changes
Compliance monitoring is usually given more emphasis in the case of road projects than is effects
monitoring. This is because most impact controls take the form of measures incorporated in project
designs and contract documents, and the extent to which these are complied with, plays a major part
in determining the overall environmental performance of the project.
6.2   Pre-construction Monitoring
Monitoring during the pre-construction phase of the project will be concerned with three aspects:
* checking that the project designs and specifications incorporate appropriate measures to minimise
negative impacts and to enhance beneficial impacts
* checking that the appropriate environmental protection clauses have been included in the contract
documents to allow control of actions by the contractors which are potentially damaging to the
environment
* checking that the land and property acquisition process, including payment of compensation, is
being carried out in accordance with official procedures and the RAP
The first two activities will be carried out as part of the preparation of designs and contract
documents for the two phases of the project. For Phase I sections, initial checking will be the
responsibility of the Phase I SDC Team Leader, assisted by his Environmental Team. A further
check will be carried out by the CSMC for Phase 1&2 implementation, whose TOR include checking
Phase I designs and contract documentation. The CSMC Team Leader and his Environmental
Engineer will be responsible for checking the environmental elements of both the Phase I and Phase
2 designs and documentation.
Page 37



Feeder Roads Type A Project                                     Enxironmental Management Plan
In the case of Phase I sections, the CSMC will prepare a design and contract documentation review
report (which will probably form part of the inception report) which draws attention to any
deficiencies, and indicates what remedial action is being taken.
Monitoring of matters relating to land and property acquisition will be carried out by the
NGO/Consultant team appointed by RHD in connection with preparation and supervision of
implementation of the RAP, and is not considered further here. Details of this aspect of monitoring
and associated reporting will be included in the overall project RAP.
6.3    Construction Monitoring
Environmental monitoring during the construction phase will comprise four groups of activities:
* review of the contractors' Site Environmental Plans, method statements and temporary works
designs to ensure that environmental protection measures specified in the contract documents
have been given due consideration and, when implemented, will provide an acceptable level of
impact control
• systematic observation on a day-to-day basis of all site activities and the contractors' offsite
facilities such as base camps and borrow areas, as a check that the contract requirements relating
to environmental matters are in fact being complied with, and that no unforeseen impacts are
occurring
* certification of site clearance, on completion of the works
- monitoring related to the implementation of the tree-planting and borrow pit restoration
programmes
The first three activities will be fully integrated with other construction supervision and monitoring
activities carried out by CSMC. Primary responsibility.for ensuring that an adequate level of
monitoring is carried out in relation to these will lie with the Engineer and the Engineer's
Representative, as part of their duties connected with cOntrolling site activities. Actual monitoring
will be carried out by site staff from CSMC, under the direction of the Resident Engineers
responsible for each site. Technical support in terms of environmental expertise will be provided
CSMC Environmental Engineer during his periodic visits to the sites.
The majority of monitoring will comprise visual observations, carried out at the same time as the
engineering monitoring activities. Site inspections will take place at varying times on different days
of the week. Initially, all parts of the sites (and offsite facilities'such as base camps and borrow pits)
will need to be visited on a twice-weekly basis, with the emp]hasis on early identification of any
environmental problems and the initiation of suitable remedial aLction. Where reniedial actions have
been required on the part of the contractors, further checks will need to be made to ensure that these
are actually being implemented to the agreed schedule and in the required form. As experience of the
principal problem areas is gained, attention will be concentrated on locations and activities which are
known to be the most troublesome, with a lower frequency of inspections at problem-free locations.
Nevertheless, each part of the site needs to be formally inspected at least once every two weeks.
In addition to visual observation, it is particularly important that monitoring should also include
limited questioning of people who live on and adjacent to the project roads, since they may be aware
of matters which should be given consideration, but which may riot be readily apparent or recognised
during intermittent inspection visits.
Environmental inspection checklists for site use will be developed by the CSMC Environmental
Engineer in collaboration with the ER and REs, prior to the commencement of construction, so as to
Page 38



Feeder Roads Type A Project                                     Environmental Management Plan
facilitate systematic monitoring and recording. These may require modification in the light of site
experience, and it is recommended that a review of their adequacy and ease of use should be carried
out approximately 2 months after the commencement of works on the first section to be constructed.
Further reviews should be carried out whenever a new activity, eg. pavement construction,
commences.
All environmental monitoring records will be reviewed initially, as they are received at the CSMC
site offices by the REs concerned, who will decide on the appropriate course of action to be taken in
cases where unsatisfactory reports are received. In the case of relatively minor matters, advice to the
contractor on the need for remedial action may suffice, but in all serious cases, the ER will be
informed without delay, who will either recommend to the Engineer an appropriate course of action,
or will issue instructions to contractors to take remedial action, if his delegated powers ailow him to
do this.
Monthly site reports prepared by the REs will contain a brief section summarising the results of
environmental inspections, remedial measures which have been initiated, and whether or not the
resultant action by the contractor is acceptable. The ER's monthly project report should contain a
section dealing with environmental matters, which specifically comments on the effectiveness of the
mitigation measures and management methods applied to control impacts. The reports should also
identify any particular problems which are being experienced, and recommend solutions.
Following each of his periodic inspection visits to the sites, the supervision consultant's
Environmental Engineer should prepare a brief overview report for the ER, covering each section
under construction individually, which summarises the position regarding control of the
environmental impacts associated with construction. The report should clearly identify any aspects
which are unsatisfactory, together with the reasons for poor environmental performance.
Recommendations should be made for suitable remedial action to be taken, including where
necessary, any changes in environmental management and monitoring methods, and in the mitigation
measures which have been adopted.
The tree-planting and borrow pit restoration programmes will fall outside the scope of the
construction contracts. Day-to-day monitoring will be an integral part of the responsibilities of the
NGOs involved with management of these programmes. However, overall responsibility for both
management and monitoring will lie with the PCWD, who may delegate responsibility for these
aspects to the Environmental/Resettlement Specialist within his advisory team.
Monthly reports prepared by the NGOs concerned should set out clearly the progress which has been
made on each of the road sections for which they are responsible, identifying any problems which are
being experienced, and making recommendations for any appiopriate remedial action. The CSMC
Environmental Engineer will also review and repQrt on progress on these aspects during his periodic
site visits.
6.4    Operational Phase Monitoring
Operational phase environmental monitoring will essentially be concerned with reviewing the
effectiveness of routine maintenance of trees and embankments, carried out by LCSs, and the need
for periodic and special maintenance works. It is anticipated that these aspects will be carried out by
RHD as the organisation responsible for maintenance.
Since traffic levels on the improved roads are most unlikely to reach a point where air pollution or
noise arising from vehicle operation, or water pollution from pavement run-off are likely to become
significant, no monitoring is proposed in these respects.
Page 39



Feeder Roads Type A Project                                   Environmental Mlanagement Plan
6.5   Independent Review Monitoring
The monitoring system indicated above will be effectively controlled, directly or indirectly, by RHD
as the project proponent. It is not therefore independent.
It is therefore recommended that:
* The Bank should initiate and finance an independent environmental review mission, to examrine
and report on all aspects of environmental management and monitoring. The mission's prime
objective should be to establish whether or not the environm7ental managenment and monitoring
systems, procedures etc. as set out in this EvP are actually being implemented, with particular
reference to matters relating to impact control during the construction phase.
The most appropriate timing for the mission would be approximately 12 months after the start of
construction on the sections within the first year works programme, thus allowing time for any
necessary changes to be made in management or monitorinig in relation to the second year
programme. At this point, a substantial part of the works on each of the sections should have been
completed, and most, if not all, impacts that could occur will probably have been experienced to a
greater or lesser extent. However, implementation of the tree planting and borrow pit restoration
programmes will probably not have commenced since construction works will be continuing on most
sections.
Delay of the mission until these other programmes have commenced, would mean that the second
year works programme would have started, and it woulcd be moire difficult to introduce any changes
in approach, procedures etc.
Page 40



Feeder Roads Type A Project                                  Environmental Management Plan
SECTION 7
MITIGATION AND MONITORING COSTS
7.1    General Considerations
Many of the costs associated with implementation of the Environmental Management Plan have
already been, or will shortly be, included in the project budget, as an integral part of specific cost
items. For example:
* the incorporation of mitigation measures in designs and contract documents is covered in the cost
item for consultancy services for the Phase I and Phase 2 programmes
* the costs of environmental monitoring during construction by CSMC are covered in the item for
construction supervision and monitoring consultancy services
* construction cost estimates incorporated in the overall project budget will reflect the marginal
costs which will be incurred by contractors in complying with the environmental clauses
introduced into the contract documents
* the costs of actual tree raising and planting, as well as the service fees to the managing NGOs who
organise planting groups, are included in the overall item for tree planting in the project cost
estimates
The costs of the borrow pit reinstatement programme (excluding managing/coordinating NGO costs)
will be met from private sources (lease payments and/or micro-credit arrangements) and, as such,
should not be included in the project budget.
Incremental costs associated with implementing the EMP, which are not provided for under other
items in the project budget are:
* NGO costs related to the provision of planning and implementation management/coordination
services for the borrow pit reinstatement programmes
* costs of provision of technical support to the planning/coordinating NGOs for both the tree
planting and borrow pit programmes
* costs of implementing an independent environmental review
In view of the importance of the tree planting and borrow pit programmes to minimisation of two of
the three key adverse impacts of the project, and therefore to overall environmental performance,
together with the desirability of having a completely independent environmental review during the
construction phase, it is proposed that the costs of the above items should be met wholly by the Bank.
The sections which follow provide budget cost estimates.
7.2    Borrow Pit Programme Management
The cost estimates (in US$ at an exchange rate of US$1=Tk45) in Table 7.2 are based on the
following assumptions:
* that the programme will commence as soon as the first contractor commences mobilisation, and
will extend over a period of 48 months; this allows 12 months, following completion of the last
construction works within the three year construction period, for the borrow pit programmes to be
implemented at those sites where extraction ceases at the end of construction year 3
* that there will be no cost inflation in US$ terms within the programme period
Page 41



Feeder Roads Ty pe A Project                                    Env ironmental Management Plan
* that the managing NGO has local offices which can be used as bases by the field teams, and a
head office where the Team Leader/Coordinator will be based: the allowance made for general
office costs assumes that only marginal incremental costs at existing offices are incurred by the
field teams
* that, given the geographic spread of the programme, the field teams will operate from 2 offices,
one located north of the Padma river and the other to the south
* the two field teams will each comprise a Project Manager/Sociologist, Fisheries Specialist and
Agricultural Extension Specialist: in the event that there is relatively little interest in reinstatement
for agriculture, the Agricultural Extension Specialists would be replaced by second Fisheries
Specialists
Table 7.2     Borrow Pit P'rogramrime Costs
Item                                           Quantity       Unit Rate       Amount
(US$)          (USS)
Project Team Leader/Coordinator (part time)      24mm          2200/mth         52800
Project Managers/Sociologists (2)                96mm          1780/mth        170880
Agric. Extn. Specialists (2)                     96mm          I110/mth        106560
Fisheries Specialists (2)                        96mm          11 10/mth       106560
Vehicle rent/operation (2)                      96mths         1500/mth        144000
Out of station allowances                       96mths         200/mth          19200
Training/workshops                                40             250            10000
Office operation                                96mths         200/mth          19200
Computer/printer purchase/maintenance (2 sets)    LS              LS             8000
Total     637200
7.3    Support to NGO Managers
The provision of managerial and technical training support to the NGOs who will be involved with
managing the tree planting and borrow pit programmes is consi,dered to be vital, if the programmes
are to be executed efficiently and to schedule. Both programmes cover a wide geographical area, and
proper planning and coordination are necessary for success. The larger Bangladesh NGOs generally
have adequate technical skills and experience to implement large programmes, but are relatively
weak in planning, particularly for schemes which must be implemented over a relatively short period,
and need careful coordination with other aspects of project implementation. The proposed TA
support would be focused on strengthening capabilities in these respects, but would also include a
technical support element.
The support programme would run over a period of three years, with the main inputs being in the
early stages of the first year of construction: it being assumed that adequate transfer of knowledge
has taken place over the preceding three years, for the fourth year programmes to be planned and
executed without external guidance and assistance.
The cost estimates in Table 7.3 are based on the following assumptions:
* that the Bank will recruit individual, freelance experts, rather ithan drawing on staff members from
consulting firms
• that the specialists will be mobilised from overseas
* that there is no cost inflation in US$ terms over the support programme period
PAge 42



Feeder Roads T\ pe A Project                                  Environmental MNanagement Plan
Table 7.3    Costs of Support to NGO Managers
Item                                Quantity       Unit   Amount
rate     (US$)
(US$)
Social Forestry Specialist            5mm         12000    60000
Fisheries Specialist                  5mm         12000    60000
Agric. Extn. Specialist               5mm         12000    60000
Airfares                                9          3000    27000
Per diems                              450          180    81000
Vehicle hire/operation                15mths       1500    22500
Total   310500
7.4    Costs of Independent Environmental Review
The estimated costs of an independent environmental review are based on the following assumptions:
* that the Bank will recruit an individual, freelance specialist, rather than drawing on Bank staff, or
a staff member from a consulting firm
* that the specialist will be mobilised from Europe
* that there is no cost inflation in US$ terms over the support programme period
* that the Bank office in Dhaka will provide all local transport
Table 7.4    Costs of Independent Environmental Review
Item                                 Quantity      Unit   Amount
rate    (US$)
(US$)
Environmental Specialist               1mm        12000    12000
Airfare                                 1          3000     3000
Per diems                               30          180     5400
Total    20400
Page 43






APPENDIX 1
References



I



Anon. 1996          Technical proposal for the simultaneous development of rural roads and
fisheries through the development of borrow pits created duing road
construction in a form suitable for aquaculture. IFADEP Project
ALA192/05/02 Bangladesh. October 1996
DHV 1996            Nalka - Hatikamrul - Bonpara New Road; Detailed Environmental Study;
Part 5 Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan. DHV Consultants
BV, in association with Consulting Engineering Services (India) PVT Ltd,
Development Design Consultants, Desh Upodesh Ltd. December 1996
Mouchel 1997        Feasibility Study and Detailed Design of Feeder Roads Type A (RRMP3).
Interim Report. Volume 2 Environmental Aspects. LG&Mouchel and Partners
Ltd, in association with Beca Worley International, Transroute International,
Engineering Science Ltd. May 1997
Mouchel 1998        Feeder Roads Type A Project. Environmental Review. LG Mouchel and
Partners Ltd, in association with Beca Worley Intemational, Transroute
International, Engineering Science Ltd. February 1998



I



APPENDIX 2
RHD Tree Planting Guidelines






Roads and Highways Department
Government of Bangladesh
Arboriculture Circle
C!IIDETINE
LEASE AGREEMENTS
FOR
ROAD SIDE AFFORESTATION AND MAINTENANCE
THROUGH PEOPLE'S PARTICIPATION
UNDER THE ASSISTANCE OF THE RHD
18-07-94                           -                 Arboriculture Circle
RHD, Dhaka.
(English Translation by DHV-Consultanis, Nov. '97)
Roadside Plantation Guide, Arboriculture Circle RHD
File: MMA\EIA\RHDGuide.Doc                                         page



I



PREFACE
It is a world wide concern to keep balance with environmental conditions while promoting developmcnt.
Tree plantation and maintenance can help in keeping sustainable socio-economic and environmental
benefits. The importance of trees is multifold: They influence weather and rainfall, and each single tree
enhances fresh air quality. The global environment is affected seriously because of careless use of
natural resources. The human being responsible for the survival on earth has widely exploitcd and
mismanaged these natural resources. There are many reasons whv many species have-disappeared. The
contributing factors are natural disasters, increasing population, industrial revolution, diminishing
cultivable land, increased desertification and so on. Besides the green house effect has increased the
average global temperature which have further adverse global impacts in the next few years according
to many specialists.
Ten percent of the total world forestry has already been destroyed and further twenty five percent are
under threat. Industrial and urban development destroys seven million hectares of land in every minute;
at the same pace 44 hectares of fertile land is currently changing into desert and 22 hectares of forest
land is destroyed. Particularly tropical countries, vital for global oxvgen production, are loosing
forestry at a rate of one percent every year.
As for Bangladesh, its total area is 143,980 sq.km and the population is 120 million (resulting in a
density of 900 persons per sq.km. Forests covers only nine percent instead of twenty five percent in
comparable environmental settings. Since there is great deficit in forest coverage, the government is
planning for forestry improvement in engaging rural people in different activities of tree plantation.
There is no unused land in a highly populated country like Bangladesh. Neither it is easy to meet the
requirements of forestry, but using the limited resources substantial improvement and development
towards forestry can be achieved. Therefore, the Government is undertaking afforestation efforts in the
land adjacent to roads, highways, railways and all kinds of embankments, as well as in public and
private office yards.
GoB is encouraging public participation by offering share of forestry benefits. Therefore, roadside
afforestation is becoming a main motivation issue nation wide.
Considering the above circumstances, Secretary, Ministry of Communication and Chief Engineer. RHD
decided to plant trees by RHD's Arboriculture Division on at least 200 km of roads even' vear. while
another 2 km of roadside plantation will be undertaken by the Sub-Divisional Engineer. As a result of
this decision each year the RHD will plant trees for 450 km of roads which will contain 0.9 million
plants on both sides of the roads. The planted trees shall be well cared and maintained. Trees destroyed
within the planted areas shall be replaced first in the next year. For tree plantation purpose every year
the cost will be provided under 168-road, bridge, and maintenance account and for the new road 2%
provision shall be made in the Project Concept Paper (PCP).
Roadside Plantation Guide, Arboriculture Circle RHD
File: MMA\EIA\RHDGuide.Doc                                                          page ii



I



Criteria of Planting Trees on Both Sides of Roads
1.    Trees are to be planted as such manner that no obstruction is created to the drivers.
2.     At least 10.00 m distance from culverts or bridge approaches shall be left free from any trees.
Road bends are equally to be kept free of trees.
3.     Trees shall be planted in sufficient distance from the road shoulder so that in need vehicles can
be parked on the road side without disturbing smooth traffic movement.
4.     Trees like Mahogany, Sissoo, Arjune, Jarul, Jackfruit, Koroi, Neem and Akashmoni are among
suitable species to be planted along road side. Shrubs are to be discouraged for plantation on
side slopes and at the verge as they are likely to get out of control and become harmful to the
roads. Mulberry, Banana and Papaya cultivation are also not recommended for cultivation on
slopes.
5.     Every year by the 30th July tree plantation shall be completed. Growth and resistance against
animal grazing of newly planted trees will be enhanced if they are cultivated before the end of
July. Generally, plants of 2 years of age are more stronger than younger ones. Whatever
method of plantation is adopted, if the plantation is entrusted and maintained bv local people in
granting them due shares there will be less possibility of destruction and failure. Therefore
people shall be directly engaged in such plantation scheme.
Project success apparently will depend on the agreement and engagement of local people for
maintenance of all these trees after the first or the first two years. In this way local people will learn to
appreciate "their" trees and their responsibility for these forestry resources will be strengthened. In
cases where there is no road side villages and/or people do not show any interest in tree maintenance,
such plantation agreements are not applicable.
*     -*      *
Roadside Plantation Guide, Arboriculture Circle RHD
File: MMA\EIA\RHDGuide.Doc                                                           page iii



Cost Estimate for 1 km Roadside Plantation:
In FY 1994-95, for 1 (one) kmnof tree plantation and maintenance of species mentioned above
in both sides of the road
in 2 rows at 1.82 m planting distance, the following cost estimate is made:
Cost of young plants, including transportation and handling:
2000 nos d Tk. 10.45 each                              Tk. 20,900 00
2.    Labour cost for making planting holes of size .45 x .45 x .45 m
(or as per instruction of the executing officer)
2000 no @ Tk. 1.57 each                         =      Tk. 3,140.00
3.    Cost of Fertiliser including cowdung
a.     Cow dung (0.5 ft3 @ Tk 1.83 per ft)  Tk.   0.90
b.     Urea(144gr aTk5.59 perkg)         Tk.   0.63
c.     TSP (I14 gr @Th7.59 perkg)        Tk.   0.86
d.     MP (114 gr @Tk 6.00 per kg)       Tk.   0.68
TOTAL  for 2000 no of trees  ,    Tk.   3.08           Tk. 6,160.00
4.    Placing of trees in hole
and cost of Bamboo pole (1.5 m long, 2 cm diameter) support
2000 @   Tk. 3.14                               =      Tk. 6.280.00
5.    Maintenance costs for one year maintenance
I krn x I man x 12 month x 1536.15 Tklmonth     =      Tk. 18A433.00
TOTAL COST FOR 1 km (both Side)
ROADSIDE PLANTATION, INCL. MAINTENANCE                 =      Tk. 54,913.50
Provision has been made for plantation of 2000 trees for 1 (one) kcm of road.
However, the number of plants will depend according to the availability of adequate space on the road
sides.
The cost indicated above include VAT, taxes and profit of contractors.
Roadside Plantation Guide, Arboriculture Circle RHD
File: NMv1A\EIA\RHDGuide.Doc                                                    page iv



Guideline for:
Agreement between local selected beneficiaries and RHD
for roadside plantation and maintenance'scheme
The Government of Bangladesh intends to increase tree resources at a lesser cost on road side by engagement
of local people.
Correspondingly,
today   . . year _         month
on behalf of the RHD (considered to be 1st Party)
undertakes the following agreement with
the Chairman
of                                Union council (as a second Party)
of Village
Post Office _                     Police Station
District __,
representing the following persons:
a. Name                                a. Fathers Name,
b.                                     b.
c.                                     c.
It is agreed to protect trees on both side of road after being maintained by the Government of Bangladesh in
mutual responsibility on the following terms and conditions:
Roadside Plantation Guide, Arboriculture Circle RHD
File: MMA\EIA\RHDGuide.Doc                                                                 page v



Terms and Conditions
1.     The First Party will divide the roadside in various modules and shall develop horticulture schemes with
the finance of 1st Party. The scheme shall be maintained by the 1st Party for the first year or, if
decided so, for the first two years.
2.     The 2nd Party will be selected by the 1st Party. For the tree maintenance the 2nd Party will be
engaged. 2nd Party shall be composed primarily frorn landless people categories.
3.     If any terms of the agreement is breached by the 2nd Party, the First Party will have right to cancel the
agreement.
4.     2nd Party will have right to plant other edible and useful plants like chilli, eggplant, sweet potatoes,
cotton, nepiar, para grass, corns etc. In between the existing trees, no cultivation of plants is allowed
which may create erosion. It is also forbidden to establish there any type of shelter.
5.     In embankment slope, timber producing trees such as Sissoo, Mahogany, Arjune, Jarul, Koroi and
Neem shall be planted at 1.80 m distance in the first row and at 1.50 m C/C distance in the second
row. Timber producing trees such as Akashmoni and Rain Tree will remain the property of the 1st
Party. Fire wood can be cut after 5/6 years and can be taken by the 2nd Party. The concept is that the
leasees will eventually benefit 40% of the total plantation. All trees shall be protected from cow and
other animal grazing.
In roads where only one row is allowed the spacing shall be Cc) 5 feet C/C and trees like Koroi, Sissoo,
Mahogany and Akashmuni shall be given priority. The 2nd Party can cut down and collect every
alternate tree after 5 to 6 years for use as firewood. Permanent trees @ 10 feet C/C shall be the
property of the 1st Party. Banana, papaya and bamboo is not allowed for cultivation.
6.     The 1st Party will assist 2nd Party by all means in maintenance. In case of threat from 3rd Party 2nd
and 1st Party jointly ask for help from the relevant authority. Developed horticultures cannot be leased
to any other organisation.
7.     In case there is need for road widening resulting in the removal of trees within 5 to 6 years after the
signing of agreement the 2nd Party will be entitled for compensatiopn at 50% for the removed trees.
After the remaoval of trees the site shall be filled, levelled and compacted to the required standard.
8.     Within 1Om of the bridge approach no trees are allowed to plant.
9.     All parties, with due consultation, can agree for changing any terms of the contract.
(Signatures)
Representative of RHD (Class-I Officer)
Witness _
Union Parishad Chairman
Witness
Roadside Plantation Guide, Arboriculture Circle RHD
File: MMA\EIA\RBDGuide.Doc                                                               page vi



Guideline for:
Lease Agreement between Beneficiaries and RHD
for Additional Roadside Plantation and Maintenance Scheme
Agreement is made on date                   for increase of tree resources along roadsides, at lesser
expenditure
between RHD, represented by                                  (1 st Party),
and                           (groupslorganisationl7ndividuals)  (2nd Party)
represented by Chairman/Secretary                           on behalf of
2.
3.
On basis of 50:50 share of benefit between GoB and (groups/organisationlindividuals) concerning roadside
plantation lease schemes the following terms and conditions are to be adopted:
Terms and Conditions
1.     RHD is the only owner of khas land along roads.
2.     Tree plantation can be made on the condition that land alongside the road concerned is available.
3.     The 1st Party will divide the roadside in various sections and shall lease them out for horticulture
schemes to the 2nd Party. The trees (Mahogany, Sissoo, Koroi, Jackfruit, Jarul, Akashmoni, Arjune,
Mohanem) shall be planted by the 2nd Party.
4.     In embankment slope, timber producing trees such as Sissoo, Mahogany, Arjune, Jarul, Koroi, Neem
and firewood producing trees like Akashmoni and Rain Tree shall be planted at 6" distance in the first
row and at 5" C/C distance in the second row. Fire wood can be cut after 6 years and can be taKen by
the 2nd Party, subject to prior approval of the 1st Party. The concept is that the leasees will have a
share benefit of 50% of the total plantation.
5.     2nd Party will have right to plant other edible and useful plants like chilli, eggplant, sweet potatoes,
cotton, nepiar, para grass, corns etc. In between the existing trees, no cultivation of plants is allowed
which may create erosion. It is also forbidden to establish there any type of shelter.
6.     Banana, papaya and bamboo is not allowed for cultivation along roadsides.
7.     If any term:ns of the agreement is breached by the 2nd Party, the 1st Party will have right to cancel the
agreement at no cost incurring to the 1st Party.
8.     If there is need for road widening to remove trees within 6 years after plantation the 2nd Party will be
entitled for 70% of the removed tree.
9.     In areas of bridge approaches and at road bends no trees are allowed to plant along roadside.
10.    On embankments and on plain land the 2nd Party will be allowed to cultivate agricultural crops. If
required by the 1st Party, however, to retrieve soil material for roadlembankment maintenance, the
2nd Party will not be compensated.
If feasible, the 1st Party will allow beneficiaries to perform fish culture in borrow pits. In such cases, the
share basis for production will be 50:50.
Roadside Plantation Guide, Arboriculture Circle RHD
File: MMA\EIA\RHDGuide.Doc                                                              page vii



11.    Utmost attention shall be paid by the 2nd Party to avoid any damage to the road embankment
No cultivation of crops along roadside is allowable in areas without prior tree plantation.
12.    This agreement is not transferable to other beneficiaries/partiies unless approved by the 1 st Party.
13.    The 1st Party will assist 2nd Party by all means in rnaintenance. In case of threat from 3rd Party 2nd
and 1st Party jointly ask for help from the relevant aLuthority.
14.    Lease will be allowed to collect earth fill materials frDm RHD borrow pit for repair of the embankment
but not for other individual interests. Every year all holes in the embankment shall be filled up by the
lease.
15.    The life span of firewood producing plants is 6 years, for timbier and fruit bearing trees is 30 years. The
2nd Party will receive share of fruit production at 50%.
Tuth (Mulberry) cultivation is not permitted.
16.    Trees planted earlier shall be the RHD's property. Road side already satisfactory planted shall be left
aside and shall not be included in the scheme.
Road sections located in Social Forestry Schemes shall be exempted from this agreement.
CONCLUSION.
For the purpose of tree plantation in road side there exist a inter-ministerial committee
chaired by the Ministry of Forestry. In every District exists a Tree Plantation
Conmmittee under the Chairmanship  of the District Conmnissioner.   If RHD.
Govenmments Departments and NGOs take positive stapes in tree plantation, within
next few years the proposed scheme will be successful.
The Arboriculture Division should, with assistance from other Executive Engineers of
RHD, play a key role in implementing the proposed plantation schemes. The Standing
Order of Higher Authority should be followed which specifies the cutting down of
matured and dead trees. Each removed tree should be replaced by 5 newly planted trees
and shall be well maintained.
Roadside Plantation Guide, Arboriculture Circle RHD
File: MMlVA\EIA\RlDGuide.Doc                                                             page viii



