                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 35449

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                                (IF-N0430)

                                                  ON A

                                   INTERIM TRUST FUND CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$273.0 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                               PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH

                                                  FOR A

                 THIRD ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT




                                              March 1, 2006




Energy and Infrastructure Sector Unit
South Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2005)

                                         Currency Unit = Bangladesh Taka(Tk.)
                                              Tk. 1.000 = US$ 0.015
                                             US$ 1.000 = Tk. 65.480

                                                FISCAL YEAR
                                               July 01  June 30

                                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BRAC    Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee                    MIS              Management Information Systems
BRTA    Bangladesh Road Transport Authority                       MoC              Ministry of Communications
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                               MOF              Ministry of Finance
CE      Chief Engineer                                            MTR              Mid-Term Review
CIDC3   Consolidation of Institutional Development Component     NCB               National Competitive Bidding
CMS     Central Monitoring System                                 NGO              Non-Government Organization
CUL     Compensation Under Law                                    N-H-B            Nalka-Hatikumrul-Bonpara Road
DBST    Double Bituminous Surface Treatment                       O&M              Operation and Maintenance
DC      District Commissioner                                     OPD              Office of Project Director
DCA     Development Credit Agreement                              PAD              Project Appraisal Document
DFID    Department of International Development, United Kingdom   PAP              Project Affected People
D-S     Dhaka-Sylhet Road                                         PD               Project Director
EA      Environmental Assessment                                  PDO              Project Development Objective
EMAP    Environmental Management Action Plan                      PPR              Public Procurement Regulation
EOP     End of Project                                            PSC              Project Steering Committee
ERR     Economic Rate of Return                                   QAE              Quality at Entry
FIDIC   International Federation of Consulting Engineers          QAG              Quality Assurance Group
FMR     Financial Management Report                               QCBS             Quality and Cost Based Selection
FMS     Financial Management System                               R&R              Resettlement and Rehabilitation
FRA     Feeder Road Type A                                        RAP              Resettlement Action Plan
GoB     Government of Bangladesh                                  RHD              Roads and Highways Department
HDM-4   Highway Development and Management Model                  RMI              Road Maintenance Initiative
ICB     International Competitive Bidding                         RRMP III         Third Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance P
ICR     Implementation Completion Report                          RSRP             Road Sector Reform Project
IDA     International Development Association                     SBD              Standard Bidding Document
IDC     Institutional Development Component                       SE&ME            Socioeconomic Monitoring & Evaluation
IMTP    Integrated Multi-Modal Transport Policy                   SEA              Social and Environmental Assessment
IRI     International Roughness Index                             SIA              Social Impact Assessment
ISAP    Institutional Strengthening Action Plan                   SOE              Statement of Expenditure
ITF     Interim Trust Fund                                        TA               Technical Assistance
JV      Joint Ventures                                            UFMS             Unified Financial Management System
LGED    Local Government Engineering Department                   VOC              Vehicle Operating Cost



                                        Vice President:     Praful C. Patel
                                     Country Director       Christine I. Wallich
                                       Sector Manager       Guang Z. Chen
                                   Task Team Leader:        Stein Lundebye/Ke Fang

                                       BANGLADESH
         THIRD ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       27
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             35
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            38

Project ID: P037294                                                  Project Name: Third Road Rehabilitation &
                                                                     Maintenance
Team Leader: Ke Fang                                                 TL Unit: SASEI
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 9, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Third Road Rehabilitation & Maintenance                  L/C/TF Number: IF-N0430
   Country/Department: BANGLADESH                                                         Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (86%); Central government administration (14%)
                  Theme: Improving labor markets (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Access to urban services
                            and housing (P); Small and medium enterprise support (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/09/1995                                     Effective: 05/16/1999                05/16/1999
     Appraisal: 11/15/1997                                         MTR:                             11/26/2001
      Approval: 10/01/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOB/ROADS & HIGHWAYS DEPARTMENT
                      Other Partners:      DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT, UNITED
                                           KINGDOM

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               Christine I. Wallich                           Pierre Landell-Mills
Sector Manager:                 Guang Z. Chen                                  Frannie Humplick
Team Leader at ICR:             Ke Fang                                        Arun Banerjee
ICR Primary Author:             Ke Fang


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1    Context The objective and the design of the Third Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
(RRMP III) need to be assessed in the context of (i) the economic, political, and institutional conditions
prevailing in Bangladesh in the past decade; and (ii) the overall development in the transport sector in the
same period. In the mid-1990s when the project was prepared as a follow-up to two previous road
projects, the country's economic and growth prospects suffered from the effects of devastating floods,
confrontational politics, and other unrest.     Although Bangladesh did make strides in macroeconomic
management and improving opportunities for the poor during the mid-1990s, the government's commitment
to policy and institutional reforms was not stable. In the transport sector, the national road network
covered the country adequately after heavy investment in roads, but it suffered from a backlog of needed
rehabilitation, a lack of proper maintenance, and poor quality of feeder roads. Furthermore, the previous
two Bank-funded road projects concluded that the Road and Highways Department (RHD), which was
responsible for managing the national road network, was weak in road planning and maintenance. In
response to these conditions, the RRMP III was prepared to strengthen efforts to improve the efficiency and
safety of the road networks by improving maintenance of the national and regional roads, removing critical
bottlenecks in the overall transport system, and strengthening institutional capacity of the RHD.

3.1.2    Project Development Objective (PDO) The PDO defined in the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD) dated June 26, 1998 and Development Credit Agreement (DCA) dated October 21, 1998 was to
reduce the total cost of road transport on Bangladesh's most traveled roads. The PAD further stated that
the PDO would be achieved through accomplishment of the following sub-objectives:

(i)      reducing "bottlenecks" by expanding and improving critical road links in the overall transport
         system i.e. the Nalka-Hatikamrul-Bonpara (N-H-B) Road; rehabilitation of the Dhaka-Sylhet
         (D-S) Road; improvement of the Feeder Roads 'A' network (FRA), and the widening of critical
         narrow bridges on the national and regional road network in the Northwest and Southwest regions
         of the country;
(ii)     improving the institutional capacity of the RHD in road maintenance and improved financial
         management;
(iii)    improving road safety by developing the institutional capacity in RHD to identify hazardous
         locations and to design and implement physical measures to reduce road accidents at these
         locations;
(iv)     promoting private sector development (i.e. medium-size contractors) through contracting out FRA
         road works now undertaken by smaller and less sophisticated contractors; and
(v)      wherever conditions permit, use of labor-intensive methods for road construction and maintenance
         to create employment and reduce poverty.

3.1.3    Relevance of PDO. The PDOs reflected priorities for transport development in Bangladesh at the
time of appraisal, as identified by the Government of Bangladesh (GoB) and the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS, 1998). The PDO was consistent with the government strategy for reducing
poverty and promoting growth, which stressed the importance of reducing the total cost of road transport
through adequate provision and maintenance of road infrastructure. The project objective also reflected the
priorities identified in the 1998 CAS which highlighted the strategic importance of institutional
development in Bangladesh. In the transport sector, the CAS emphasized that "selective Bank support must
be guided by priorities for poverty alleviation and removal of critical bottlenecks."

3.1.4    Clarity of PDO. Assessment of the PDO was slightly hindered by the lack of consistency in



                                                     - 2 -

project documentation - the PDO was stated differently in various parts of the PAD, quite likely because
the PDOs were modified at the final stages of project preparation but were not appropriately updated in the
PAD. There were too many sub-objectives, and in fact, some of these sub-objectives, in particular (ii) and
(iii) cited above, focused on just inputs and processes rather than relevant outcomes. The performance
indicators (PI) could also have been designed more thoroughly to enable effective monitoring and
evaluation during and after project implementation. For example, some PIs did not have baseline data, and
no indicator was designed for monitoring and measuring outcomes of the institutional development
component.

3.2 Revised Objective:
3.2.1    The PDO remained the same as defined in the PAD throughout implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1    According to the DCA, the project originally had the following three components, and each
component had several sub-components (note: all costs include contingencies):

     Physical Investments (US$449.9 million at PAD; US$381.5 million at ICR, excluding cost of the
     2000 flood restoration project) which include:
         (A1)    Nalka-Hatikamrul-Bonpara (N-H-B) Road (US$73.0 million at PAD; US$62.6 million
                 at ICR): Construction of about 55 km for a new road connecting Nalka, Hatikamru, and
                 Bonpara that would provide a link with the western approach of the Jamuna Bridge from
                 Nalka Bridge to connect National Highway N5 at Hatikamrul and N5 to Bonpara;
         (A2)    Dhaka-Sylhet (D-S) Road (US$178.5 million at PAD; US$152.3 million at ICR):
                 Rehabilitation and widening of 250 km of the Dhaka-Sylhet road and an existing section of
                 National Highway N2 from Katchpur to Sylhet, which links with the Indian border at
                 Tamabil;
         (A3)    FRA Program (US$96.0 million at PAD; US$73.6 million at ICR): Rehabilitation of
                 about 500 km of FRA, which were identified as ones with highest priorities for the
                 Northwest and Southwest regions in the FRA Improvement Master Plan developed under
                 the IDA financed RRMP-II;
         (A4)    Narrow Bridges (US$11.6 million at PAD; US$15.1 million at ICR): Reconstruction of
                 existing narrow bridges (about 1,000 meter total span) and culverts on national and
                 regional roads in the northwest and southwest regions where periodic maintenance work
                 was completed under IDA financed RRMP-I and RRMP-II. This sub-component was
                 proposed to be financed by DFID under their on-going small bridge construction program
                 with RHD;
         (A5)    Periodic Maintenance (US$70.9 million at PAD; US$63.2 million at ICR): Carrying out
                 of periodic maintenance of about 1,000 km of national and regional roads in the northwest
                 and southwest regions of Bangladesh;
         (A6)    Road Safety Measures and Equipment (US$20.0 million at PAD; US$14.6 million at
                 ICR): Removal of accident black spots to improve traffic safety, and strengthening of road
                 safety on national and regional roads completed under RRMP-I and RRMP-II, through the
                 acquisition and installation of axle load control equipment, reflectorized traffic signs,
                 thermoplastic road markings, and police training equipment.

     Technical Assistance (TA) (US$41.6 million at PAD; US$44.56 million at ICR), including:
         (B1)    Policy support for (i) an Axle Load Control Management Study; and (ii) a Study for the
                 rationalization of RHD's plant, equipment and ferry operations;
         (B2)    Institutional development component (IDC3), funded by DFID, including (i) additional



                                                    - 3 -

                  organizational improvements within RHD to strengthen its capacity for improved
                  maintenance and road safety; (ii) to improve RHD's financial management systems; and
                  (iii) to provide the necessary technical assistance to strengthen the National Traffic Police
                  Training Center;
         (B3)     Project preparation and implementation, including supervision of implementation of the
                  physical investments and preparation of a follow-up project; and
         (B4)     Training of project staff.

    Land Acquisition and Resettlement (US$37.0 million at PAD; US$37.80 million at ICR): Carrying
    out of a program of land acquisition and resettlement affecting about 32,310 households (including
    18,200 land owners, 12,191 squatters, and 1,919 employees) living, cultivating, or working in the
    project area. This component would be fully financed by the GoB and it will implement resettlement
    action plans (RAPs) prepared under guidance of both the Bank's Operational Directive 4.30 on
    involuntary resettlement and GoB's land acquisition laws and regulations.

3.3.2    Assessment of the design of the components. The physical investment components were
pragmatically designed to support achievement of the project objectives described above. The detailed
design of these components also took into consideration priorities set up in GoB's 1991 Road Master Plan
and lessons learned in the previous two road projects. In addition to the major physical investments, a
sizable institutional development component (IDC3) was included in the project to support institutional
development in the road sector. However, the IDC3, which was to be co-financed by DFID through
bilateral grant financing, was not fully defined by the time of project appraisal. As a result, the appraisal
of the level of commitment from the government on insitutional development in PAD was inadequate. No
strong link was established between the investment components and the IDC3. The design of the IDC3,
which was carried out later on mainly by the DFID consultants through their bilateral discussions with
RHD, lacked substantive targets for outputs and outcomes expected in relevant areas of RHD's
performance and presented no direct focus on the sustainability of new RHD responsibilities. Furthermore,
the IDA supervision team, which was short of an institutional specialist at the early stage of
implementation, did not provide adequate critical inputs to the design of the IDC3.

3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1    Some changes were made in the project components during implementation. Implementation of
Component A4: Narrow Bridges (funded by DFID) was delayed due to change in the scope of DFID's
support to road bridges in Bangladesh. The component finally was separated from RRMP-III and became
part of a DFID-funded road bridge improvement project that aimed to address not only rehabilitation of
road bridges, but also maintenance and management. Among 46 contracts initially included to the RRMP,
36 have been awarded and work has been in progress by end of 2005. Completion of the DFID project is
scheduled for June 2007.

3.4.2    Components A6 was consolidated into a Road Safety Improvement program which consisted of
five major items: removing accident black spots; installation of traffic signs and road markings; acquisition
of axle load control equipment; a community road safety awareness campaign; and production of an
animated film on road safety.         The program did not include the purchase of traffic police training
equipment, which initially was part of Component A6, but was cancelled during MTR (mid-term review)
in December 2001 due to the lack of ownership and commitment regarding strengthening of the traffic
police. However, a study for the introduction of a Highway Patrol System was incorporated into the
consultancy services for supervision of FRA, as part of the Technical Assistance component.

3.4.3    Component B2: IDC3 was slightly modified during implementation before it was closed in


                                                      - 4 -

January 2003. A Consolidation of Institutional Development Component (CIDC3) was then established as
a follow-up to continue DFID's             institutional development support to the MoC (Ministry of
Communications) and RHD. After learning lessons from IDC3, DFID improved the design of CIDC3
which was intended to focus on the following expected outputs instead of just inputs: (i) Output 1 ­
Restructuring of RHD and fulfillment of its role within the National Land Transport Plan (NLTP); (ii)
Output 2 ­ Improved financial management of RHD; (iii) Output 3 ­ Improved management and
maintenance of the RHD network; (iv) Output 4 ­ Improved MoC operations including policy and
planning; (v) Output 5 ­ Establishment of an effective Transport Sector Coordination Wing in the MoC as
set out in the NLTP; and (vi) Output 6 ­ Submission of a Road Maintenance Fund Bill to Parliament. Yet
the new approach still addressed capacity issues but not organizational effectiveness, including operational
autonomy, staff motivation, etc. The design of CIDC3 was also weak in selecting robust performance
indicators, especially at outcome level.

3.4.4    To address emergency needs that arose after the floods in 2000 and on the request of GoB, a 2000
Flood Restoration Component (US$4.80 million at appraisal; US$4.21 million at ICR) was included as
part of RRMP-III to restore those roads which were severely damaged.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1    A Quality Assurance Group (QAG) assessment carried out in June 1998 rated Quality at Entry
(QAE) as satisfactory, citing the strength of experience drawn from two previous projects with RHD,
numerous consultant studies, a great deal of country knowledge, a commendable effort to improve road
safety, an early effective start for project implementation, and innovative community-based approaches in
land acquisition and resettlement. The QAG report also noted that the project had "some weaknesses in the
sectoral, institutional, and financial aspects of its design" and "in donor coordination" with other
donors such as DFID which co-financed the institutional development component. QAG warned that the
weakness could pose substantial risks if not well managed during the remainder of project processing and
implementation.

3.5.2    In this ICR, the QAE is rated as moderately satisfactory for the following strengths and
weaknesses in the project design (as discussed in the above sections).
(i) Strengths:
    l Relevance of objectives to the priorities for transport development in the country;
    l Strong country ownership of the physical investment components through significant inputs from
         the Borrower;
    l Considerable amount of expertise that had gone into the project preparation, including
         commendable efforts to improve road safety and road maintenance;
    l Adequate preparation for the physical investment components prior to implementation, including
         advanced tendering for the first year contracts and positioning of the key consultants at the project
         outset; and
    l Attention given to institutional development and lessons learned from the two previous road
         projects.
(ii) Weaknesses:
    l Lack of strong focus on real outcomes rather than just inputs and outputs in project design;
    l Weak country ownership of and commitment to institutional development;
    l Weak design of the IDC3 which lacked adequate assessment of the level of commitment and
         substantive targets for institutional development;
    l Inadequate design of the performance indicators, which made it difficult for monitoring during
         implementation; and
    l Inconsistency in stating PDO and sub-objectives in different parts of the PAD and in the DCA.



                                                       - 5 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1   Summary. The achievement of objectives is rated satisfactory, because the overall objective has
been achieved and the five sub-objectives, as they were defined in the PAD, have also been broadly
achieved.

4.1.2   Overall objective: to reduce the total costs of road transport on Bangladesh's most traveled
roads. This objective has been achieved. The project has exceeded expectations in terms of efficiency of
the investment, as the ex-post economic evaluation confirms the economic justification of the project,
indicating all economic rate of return (ERR) values at ICR stage are higher than those estimated during
appraisal. Savings in vehicle operating costs were estimated at Tk. 32585.71 million (US$ 497.64 million).
For more information please refer to Annex 3. Additionally, a number of innovative steps have been taken
during the implementation of the project, such as, introduction of toll roads and separate lanes for
non-motorized traffic on the N-H-B road (which has helped reduce accidents and significantly increase the
efficiency of the new road), introduction of the corridor management concept in the newly constructed
by-pass of the D-S road by outsourcing it to a private entrepreneur for operation, and implementation of
comprehensive road safety awareness campaigns in the project area.

4.1.3   Sub-objective (i): Providing and improving critical road links (reducing bottlenecks) in the
overall transport system.      This sub-objective has been achieved through satisfactory completion of
physical investments in the critical road links identified by GoB at the time of appraisal, i.e., construction
of N-H-B road, rehabilitation of D-S Road, improvement of the FRA, and widening of critical narrow
bridges on the national and regional road network. The proportion of the core network in poor condition in
the entire country has also decreased from 40 percent in 1998 when the project was appraised, to 24
percent in 2005 (although the target in the PAD is 10 percent by end of project (EOP)). The condition of
project roads (measured by IRI, International Roughness Index) has also been significantly improved by an
average rate of about 50 percent on all project affected roads, largely because of implementation of the
periodic maintenance component of the RRMP-III and the continued pressing by the Bank's supervision
team on the issue of increasing the annual maintenance budget. In particular, the construction of the
N-H-B road helped reduce travel time between Dhaka and Rajshahi by about 3 hours (40 percent of the
previous travel time). The rehabilitation of the D-S road with 69 km of new alignment not only increased
travel speed but also reduced the travel distance between Dhaka and Sylhet by 33 km, and travel time has
therefore been significantly reduced by more than two hours.

4.1.4   Sub-objective (ii): Improving the institutional capacity of RHD in road maintenance and
financial management. After costing about US$45 million, the TA activities and the DFID-funded IDC3
and CIDC3 have achieved limited capacity building within their design parameters. Various main RHD
technical functions, particularly in relation to project development, financing, and implementation
capacities, have been strengthened through: (i) establishment and operation of the HDM (software) cell,
road safety cell, environment and resettlement cell, and Management Information Systems (MIS) and
Estate unit; (ii) improved RHD financial management systems; (iii) enhanced management and maintenance
of the RHD road network; and (iv) improved operation (including policy and planning) to develop, manage,
and maintain a safe and cost effective road transport network.

4.1.5   Sub-objective (iii): Improving road safety. This sub-objective has not been fully achieved if
measured strictly by the performance indicator, the road accident fatality rate (fatality per 10,000 vehicles),
which has decreased from 76 in 1998 to 60 in 2005 (according to official statistics), while the target set up



                                                     - 6 -

in the PAD is 50 by EOP (see Annex 1: Key Performance Indicators). Some researches and unofficial data
even suggest the road safety has not been improved in the past years, or may have become worse at least in
some parts of the country. However, the road safety activities of the project, such as removing black spots,
improving road marking, installing traffic signs, carrying out a nation-wide road safety study, initiating and
implementing the first road section in the country with a dedicated rickshaw/bicycle lane, and implementing
road safety awareness campaigns, have significantly helped reduce the number of accidents which may
have otherwise increased. In addition, based on a Highway Patrol study funded by the project, a Highway
Patrol was established by the government and started its operation in June 2005, although it primarily
addresses crimes rather than traffic violations on highways. Therefore, it can be concluded that the
implementation of the project helped restrain, if not resolve, the deterioration of road safety in the country.



4.1.6    Sub-objective (iv): Promoting private sector participation. This sub-objectives has been
achieved. A number of local contractors and consultants participated in the project and most of them
performed well. By the end of the project, 15 (versus 10 targeted in PAD) new contractors for maintenance
were engaged, and local consulting assignments for maintenance works had increased by more than 50
percent from PAD targets.

4.1.7    Sub-objective (v): Use of labor-intensive methods for road construction and maintenance to
create employment and reduce poverty, whenever conditions permit. This sub-objective has been
achieved. Labor-intensive methods have been widely employed for road construction and maintenance
under this project. According to estimation of RHD, the implementation of this project created 18 million
work-day opportunities to skilled and unskilled workforces and 11,000 person-months for
engineers/technicians for road construction activities. The increased economic activity as result of
improvement of road conditions on two major corridors and many national, regional, and feeder roads also
created considerable new employment.

4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1    Summary. In general the implementation of the project is rated satisfactory.

Physical Investment
4.2.2    The implementation of physical investment components is rated satisfactory. All the civil works
contracts, except two small feeder road contracts, have been completed according to the original scope of
work. The closing date of the physical investment components was extended for half year mainly due to
three large nation-wide floods that occurred during the project implementation period. The two small feeder
roads contracts (covering 29 km of feeder roads in total) were terminated ahead of the full completion of
the works due to failure of the contractors to perform, despite efforts by the project authority and the IDA
supervision missions to correct the situation.

4.2.3    Nalka-Hatikamrul-Bonpara (N-H-B) Road . This component was executed under a total of four
contracts awarded through international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. The construction period
was from December 1, 1998 to December 31, 2002, and the completed road was opened to the public on
May 10, 2003. The completed work is of satisfactory quality, and includes (i) 51 km of highway with
entirely new alignment between Hatikamrul and Bonpara with a 7.3 m carriageway for normal traffic and a
4.0 m wide separate lower lane, located on the south side of the carriageway, for slow moving traffic, such
as rickshaws and bicycles; (ii) 4 km of upgraded highway from the existing road between Nalka and
Hatikamrul; (iii) 12 new bridges with a total length of 965 meters on bored pile foundation with cast-in-situ
bridge decks on pre-cast, post tensioned concrete girders; (iv) 86 large box culverts of single and multiple
barrel layout with a combined barrel length of 714 meters; (v) introduction of O&M concession for a toll


                                                    - 7 -

road section and a toll plaza equipped with an electronic tolling system; (vi) O&M contracts for selected
road corridors; (vii) slope protection of a high embankment to prevent erosion; (viii) road safety audit and
implementation of effective countermeasures; and (ix) a road safety awareness campaign.

4.2.4    Dhaka-Sylhet (D-S) Road. This component of the project was carried out in two phases, with
three contracts in each phase. The construction commenced in June 1999 and the final construction
activities completed on April 15, 2005. The 224 km road project was comprised of: (i) rehabilitation or
widening of about 154 km of existing highway; (ii) construction of a new alignment
(Auskandi-Jagadishpur section) with a length of 69 km; (iii) a new toll road section; (iv) 38 bridges, two
vehicle underpasses, and three pedestrian underpasses; (v) provision of 18.5 km service roads on some
sections of the road for local low-speed traffic; (vi) road safety audit and implementation of effective
countermeasures; and (vii) road safety awareness campaigns.

4.2.5    Rehabilitation of FRA. A total 415 km of 21 FRA improvements were included in the project and
all activities were allocated among 26 different contracts. All contracts (with the exception of the two
small contracts mentioned above in 4.2.2) were completed satisfactorily by the end of June 2005. As a
result, a significant portion of feeder roads network (386 km) was improved.

4.2.6    Periodic maintenance. Despite delays due to lack of experience of contract management by some
local contractors, 19 contracts were completed with satisfactory quality of work, which covered periodic
maintenance (e.g., resurfacing or overlay) for 628 km of roads.

4.2.7    Road Safety Improvement Program. Most elements of the consolidated program were completed
satisfactorily by June 30, 2005.       The Community Road Safety Awareness Campaign designed and
implemented under the project at the following locations: (i) accident blackspot sites; (ii) the new N-B road;
and (iii) the rehabilitation of the D-S road corridors has been successful. An animated film on road safety
targeting children and produced in cooperation with international and local NGOs, was widely received
after it was broadcasted in local language through a national TV channel. All activities to install traffic
signs and road markings for RRMP II roads were completed. Among 41 accident black spots identified, 33
were removed. The remaining eight could not be physically removed due to constraints in acquiring
associated land and structures. Acquisition and installation of axle load control equipment however was
only partially completed. Among 15 axle load control bridges to be installed, six bridges have been
tendered, and two were installed and in operation by EOP.

2000 Flood Rehabilitation Component
4.2.8    The implementation of this sub-component is rated satisfactory. All five contracts for restoration of
road networks damaged due to floods in late 2000 were awarded in November 2002 and completed by
April 2004. About 214 km of national roads and a 40m long single span bridge were restored through this
program.

Technical Assistance
4.2.9    The implementation of the technical assistance is rated moderately satisfactory. Most of the
intended outputs were produced, but the results are mixed.

4.2.10 Institutional development component (IDC3 and CIDC3). A number of studies were carried
out under the IDC3, but majority of the outputs were not fully achieved by the closing date of the IDC3.
The intended outputs of the CIDC3 have been largely achieved, although mostly later than the original
targeted dates. The interim restructuring of RHD has been implemented, e.g., the HDM cell, road safety



                                                     - 8 -

cell, environment & resettlement cell, and MIS and Estate unit have been established and are now
operational, but conversion of 63 regular posts created for these units have not yet been approved.
Furthermore, the field reorganization (at regional, district, and zone levels) has not yet been completed.
Comprehensive Management Manuals have been completed but they are not yet widely used. The roll-out
of the Central Monitoring System (CMS) is on-going. Most of the proposed modules for field training are
completed and the training is being conducted in all zones. The Integrated Multi-Modal Transport Policy
(IMTP) has been prepared but not yet approved. The National Land Transport Policy (NLTP) has been
approved and adopted by the Cabinet.

4.2.11 Policy support. The study on Axle Load Control Management and the study for the
Rationalization of RHD's Plant, Equipment and Ferry Operations were completed by the end of the project,
but the recommendations of the two studies have not yet been implemented.

4.2.12 Providing necessary technical assistance to strengthen the National Traffic Police Training
Center. This sub-component (B3) and the purchase of equipment for the proposed National Traffic Police
Training Center (part of the components A6 and A7) were not implemented.              Instead, a study for
introducing a new Highway Patrol in Bangladesh (BHP) was carried out. The study report was submitted
to MoC on March 6, 2005, which suggested the creation of the BHP and three alternative organizational
structures for BHP. In June 2005, a Highway Patrol Unit was established and put into force by GoB,
although it did not fully follow the suggestions made by the study.

4.2.13 Preparation for the follow-up project. Five consultancy services for the preparation of the
follow-up project, the proposed Road Sector Reform Project (RSRP), are being carried out with funding
from the RRMP-III credit. But due to delays in carrying out these studies and other issues in project
preparation, the appraisal of the RSRP has been postponed.

4.2.14 Training of project staff. A training policy for RHD has been formulated, but most of the training
activities as occurred in RHD were not fully in accordance with this policy. Through funding provided by
DFID, approximately 25 young RHD engineers were sent to graduate schools in the UK to study pavement
engineering, geographical information systems (GIS), MIS, construction management, and maintenance
management. However, only few of them were assigned to relevant technical RHD units where their new
qualifications filled a specific need and later became key technical staff in RHD, the rest were moved
around RHD without particular consideration to their training background. Furthermore, although under
different consultancy components of RRMP-III, a number of international or local training programs were
provided to several groups of RHD and MoC officials, there is no documentation and evaluation to
demonstrate that any intended outcome in capacity building has been achieved.

Land Acquisition and Resettlement
4.2.15 The implementation of the land acquisition and resettlement program is rated moderately
unsatisfactory, because of initial delays and problems with performance of the implementing NGOs and
district land administrations. IDA had to suspend disbursements for about 2 months in mid-2002 in order to
resolve the problem of delays in distributing compensation for resettlement.

4.2.16 While the number of project-affected persons (PAPs) was large (32,310 households in total), most
of them lost small amounts of land which they occupied (with an average of 0.026 ha per household)
because most of the land acquired for the project was in narrow strips along the existing alignments.
Compensation for land and other losses was paid in two parts: compensation-under-law (CUL) by the
district land administrations, and the "Top-up" allocations by RHD, the latter being an additional



                                                    - 9 -

compensation in order to meet the full replacement costs and other entitlements (e.g., livehood rehabilitation
and assistance for squatters) required by IDA resettlement policy. As of November 15, 2005, 95.7 percent
of the PAPs had received CUL and 99 percent had received Top-up payments. Among the unpaid cases,
the majority involved land belonging to the Land Ministry and other GoB agencies, where no private
citizens were involved. Other cases involved those due to various legal difficulties rooted in the country's
land administration system. Some of these have been taken to court and may take a long time to resolve.
Funds for the unpaid cases will remain with district commissioners (DCs) and would be disbursed per court
decision.

Environmental Management
4.2.17 Preparation and implementation of the EIAs and EMPs were satisfactory. Environmental
mitigation measures proposed in the EMPs were integrated to the design and implementation of each
investment component. For example, on the new N-H-B road component, a Hydraulic Modeling Study was
carried out to assess the impact of the embankment construction on the flow of flood water. A number of
bridges and culvert openings were added to the contruction to allow adequate flow, to reduce water velocity
to an acceptable level, and to minimize erosion.     However, the ICR finds two major weaknesses in the
EIA/EMP process: (i) there was no solid evidence which can demonstrate that effective public consultations
were carried out during the EIA process; (ii) despite the regular submission of the EMP progress reports,
there was no systematic documentation of monitoring results, which made it difficult to assess the actual
environmental impacts of the project and the extent to which these impacts have been adequately addressed
through implementation of EMPs.

Procurement
4.2.18 Procurement activities related to the project were moderately satisfactory. No major procurement
problems, such as misprocurement, fraud, or corruption, have been found. However implementation of
some major contracts experienced delays in procurement, which were mainly caused by the prolonged
evaluation and approval process. In some cases, there was a more than nine month gap between the
advertisement and awarding of contracts. As a result, some contracts were not awarded immediately after
the end of the monsoon season, and the contractors could not fully utilize the construction season as
planned or missed the contruction season at all. But nevertheless, 41 works packages out of 49 have been
completed, and the remaining contracts could not be implemented because of termination due to
non-performance, or being taken over by GoB own funding or by other proejcts.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1    The Borrower performed an ex-post economic evaluation of the RRMP-III project, using a
methodology and assumptions similar to those used at the time of appraisal. The evaluation focuses on the
civil works component of the project, which comprises 82 percent of the total project cost. The most recent
version of the Highway Development and Management Model (HDM-4) was used to simulate highway life
cycle and vehicle operating conditions and costs for multiple road design and maintenance alternatives.
The institutional component, while critical to the overall success of the project, was not analyzed in the
economic evaluation because of the difficulty in quantifying benefits from institutional improvements and
its impact on the performance of the road sector. However, qualitative analysis of the project's institutional
development impact is given in various sections in the ICR (e.g., section 4.1, 4.2 and 4.5.). A summary of
the ex-post economic evaluation is presented in Annex 3.

4.3.2    As shown in Table 1 below, the ERR at ICR stage ranges from 41 percent for the N-H new road
construction to 128 percent for the periodic maintenance of national and regional highways. All ERR
values at ICR stage are higher than those estimated at appraisal. This is because of higher than expected
traffic volume for all project roads and lower than expected unit costs for roads under the new construction



                                                    - 10 -

and rehabilitation components. The sensitivity analysis conducted also shows that the project will remain
economically viable under different risk scenarios that could reduce potential economic benefits.

                Table 1 Summary of Results of Economic Analysis (Appraisal and ICR Values)

         Components            Length (km)           NPV (US$ million )                  ERR (%)
                                                 Appraisal          ICR          Appraisal        ICR
N-H Road New Construction          55.0            812.0          397.42           15.0          41.00
  D-S Road Rehabilitation          223.6          4,147.0        13,154.6          30.0           54.0
   Improvement of Feeder           385.7          2,002.0         2,205.9          27.0           49.0
             Roads
    Periodic Maintenance           627.7          4,218.0        13,159.9          75.0          128.0


4.3.3    The main quantified project benefits are savings by road users on vehicle operating costs and time
costs. It is expected that, given the deregulated and highly competitive structure of road transport industry
in Bangladesh, a large portion of the savings on commercial vehicles costs (which represent 69 percent of
motorized, three-wheel and above, traffic composition) will be passed on to producers and consumers of
goods transported by road and passenger traffic. The project has helped preserve the road network in an
efficient and sustainable manner, that will increase export competitiveness, accelerate export-oriented
growth, and contribute to sustainable economic development.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1    The institutional development impact of this project was modest. As discussed in para.4.1.5, the
project has made some limited, but notable, impacts in terms of increased technical capacity within RHD
to plan, manage, and implement road investment projects, and to maintain the road network. The project
also contributed to increased capacity of the entire road sector by introducing some innovative mechanisms,
such as, toll roads, private sector participation in road maintenance, road safety audit, highway patrol, the
concept of corridor management, and road safety awareness campaigns.

4.5.2    However, compared to the extensive time-frame and considerable total funding of institutional
development assistance to date, only limited impacts of a wider institutional development nature has been
achieved in RHD. The TA and IDC activities (IDC3 and CIDC3) have not had significantly positive
impacts on accountability and governance problems in RHD, regarded by some GoB over-sight
departments and concerned development partners as being widespread and at critical levels. In relation to
Accounting, Project Management, Monitoring, MIS, IT and Training, the TA and IDC activities have
concentrated on generate tools and studies to address specific project-driven needs, and have not yet
focused on RHD-wide application of effective new tools and processes for wider accountability and
governance purposes. There is little evidence that the new capacities enabled by TA and IDC activities
have been proactively and substantially integrated by RHD by its mainstream functions, structure and GoB
funded budget.

4.5.3    Activities which are related to policy and institutional reforms, e.g., re-organization of the
management framework in RHD, attracted only limited genuine RHD "ownership," in terms of active
organizational commitment, resource allocation, and operational assimilation relative to other interests and
priorities. For example, the TA and IDC activities have not directly addressed structural issues within the
MoC and RHD, such as modernization of delegated powers, authority and responsibility for agency
management, both from GoB to the head of RHD and further within the RHD, and initiation of agency and



                                                     - 11 -

staff performance management policies, etc.

4.5.4    In several of the new RHD core functions promoted under RRMP-III, consultant resources with
external funding remain crucial to the ongoing viability of their functions and operations - this is
particularly sensitive in the department's budget and financial management functions. Without external
resources and expertise, the limited institutional development impact of the project may not be sustainable,
e.g., tools and systems developed with assistance from the project may not be used effectively, and further
reforms proposed by CIDC3 may not be properly implemented.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1    Weather and geographic constraints. Due to weather conditions, the construction period in most
areas of Bangladesh is generally only five to six months per year. The unprecedented floods in 2000 and
2004 caused extensive damage to the primary road network and about 150 working days for completing
road rehabilitation works under RRMP III project were lost. In addition, prolonged rainy seasons had
adverse impacts on the rehabilitation works including the construction of embankments that required the
transport of fill material from surrounding areas. Access to these areas was restricted due to wet soil
conditions that could not support heavy construction trucks needed for transport of the fill material for the
embankments.

5.1.2    The confrontational nature of politics. It has been recorded that there were in total 124 days of
general strikes (known as hartels in Bangladesh) during the period from September 1998 to February
2005, which had significant effect on the civil works of the project, and some disruption to other project
activities, such as meetings, delivery, transport, etc.

5.1.3    Difficulties in managing co-financed operations. The implementation and outcome of the
institutional development component were also affected by difficulties that can be found in other
co-financed operations: (i) inconsistent application of the project-wide implementation monitoring
framework against common outputs and outcomes, (iii) lack of ownership of the project by the beneficiary;
and (ii) weak commitment to rigorous outcome-based performance monitoring from the beneficiary.
Furthermore, as the component was mainly designed through bilateral discussions between DFID and GoB
(as mentioned in Section 3 and 4), the IDA supervision team which was short of an institutional
development specialist tended to rely on DFID to supervise the component, while DFID tended to utilize
IDA supervision to ensure the quality of the consultants' work. As a matter of fact, the interactions among
RHD, IDA and DFID were often facilitated and intermediated by the IDC3/CIDC3 consultants who
prepared all briefs and progress reports and self-supervised their own work. Such interactions, which could
hardly dismiss the influence of the consultants' commercial interests, therefore did not generate great
amount of direct and unbiased communication on institutional development matters and progress of
IDC3/CIDC3 activities. For example, progress reports provided by the IDC3/CIDC3 consultants were
often directly used by IDA and DFID supervision teams who thought the consultants' reports had been
cleared by the other one. Closer examination carried out by DFID in 2004 and IDA in 2005 found that
much of the earlier IDC progress reporting was not factually correct, and it had not been based on sensible
levels of systematic and disciplined monitoring.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1    Procurement. Delays in evaluation and approval process were mainly due to the following
practices in RHD: (i) review of bid evaluation reports by another committee or team (other than the bid
evaluation committee) when these reports required approval of the Chief Engineer (CE) or higher level



                                                      - 12 -

officials for approval; (ii) mechanistic evaluation of short-listing and consultancy proposals which tends to
assign points by too many very restricted criteria which were not in conformity with the practice in the
consultancy industry; and (iii) lack of mandate time limits for each stage in the evaluation and approval
process. The PPR 2003 (Public Procurement Regulation issued by GoB in 2003) which in principal is
along the lines of international practices, has mandated change to the above practices, but RHD has not yet
strictly followed the regulation and its provisions. Although no major procurement problems such as
misprocurement, fraud, or corruption were found at the time in the procurement activities related to the
RRMP-III, more recent experience with RHD has revealed weaknesses in its procurement practices. In
particular, some major procurement problems have recently been found, and being followed-up, in road
contracts which were managed by RHD under an IDA funded Emergency Flood Rehabilitation Program.

5.2.2    Contract Management by Contractors. Poor performance by some local contractors for the FRA
contracts and periodic maintenance contracts was due to lack of experience of organizational and financial
management aspects of the contracts. Non-availability of experienced key personnel, skilled equipment
operators, and inadequate provision of plant and equipment also had adverse effects on the performance of
the contractors. Stricter scrutiny of contractor's capacity will be necessary in the future to ensure that only
capable contractors are pre-qualified.

5.2.3    Land acquisition and resettlement. Implementation of the project experienced several delays
caused by the inherent problems in the country's land administration system, and the procedures and
practices in using the present Land Acquisition Ordinance, such as inconsistency and lack of uniformity in
data management, improper procedures for determining market rates for structures and other assets,
valuation of assets, and procedures for compensation payment. Additionally, the two consulting NGOs
were not only inefficient in program and data management, but also involved in questionable practices with
the PAPs.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1    Pre-qualification of Contractors for the FRA component. Although normal procedures were
followed by the Borrower in pre-qualification of the contractors for the 3-Year FRA program, the past
experience of some of the contractors as well as equipment availability and financial capacity were not
scrutinized with due diligence. As a result, some contractors failed to execute the works and the contracts
had to be terminated.

5.3.2    Issues of Joint Ventures (JV). The formation of JV under the project, either with local or foreign
firms, was found to be for `beating the system' rather than completing contracts within the specified time
period. Most foreign contractors showed little interest after contracts were awarded and took a back seat
during implementation. In some cases, the activities were divided between the two contractors who then
worked independently, exacerbating delays.         In two cases, contracts were terminated due to poor
performance by JV partners. Situations also arose when the local partner received the mobilization
advance, but did not share the funds with their foreign partner which sometimes resulted in cash flow
problems for the contractor who had to bring plant, equipment, and certain construction materials from
overseas.

5.4 Costs and financing:
5.4.1    At appraisal the total project cost was estimated at US$528.5 million, of which IDA share was
US$ 273.2 million equivalent (52 % of the total project cost). The civil works at appraisal accounted for
US$441.5 million (83.5 % of the total project cost), whereas the procurement of equipment accounted for
US$ 8.5 million (1.6 %), the consulting services US$ 41.6 million (7.9 %), and the land acquisition and
resettlement US$ 37.0 million (7.0%). There was no change in project cost estimation at the MTR (see



                                                     - 13 -

Annex 2: Project Costs and Financing).

5.4.2 At project closing, the total project cost was estimated at $468.06 million, of which IDA share was
US$ 228.84 million. The cost for civil works (including the 2000 Flood Restoration Component) was US$
383.38 million (81.9%), the procurement of equipment was US$ 2.32 million (0.5 %), the conculting
services was US$ 44.56 million (9.5 %), and the land acquisition and resettlement was US$ 37.8 million
(8.1%). Compared to cost estimate at appraisal, the cost for all civil works and equipment was reduced
while the cost for the consulting services and the land acquisition was slightly increased. The total project
cost by end of project was estimated to be US$ 60.50 million (11.4 %) less than the cost estimate at
appraisal. The reduction in total project cost was mainly contributed by (i) cancellation of purchasing
some equipment which was worth about $6.0 million; (ii) cancellation of about US$30 million from the
Credit due to dramatic changes in exchange rates since the Credit was negotiated; and (iii) the reduction in
unit cost for most of the road works (see Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits.)

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1   Sustainability is rated moderately likely for the following reasons:

l The government has not yet demonstrated strong commitment to, and application of, a long-term
    strategy for improving road sector management and its governance framework;
l There has been shared appreciation of the importance of road maintenance, improvement of feeder
    roads, and road safety by some governmental officials, but substantial road sector reforms need to be
    carried out by the government to create an enabling policy and institutional environment for sustainable
    improvement in road maintenance and road safety;
l The IDC/CIDC3 component of the project, co-financed by DFID, improved technical capacities at
    RHD/MoC to design, manage, implement, and maintain road investment projects, but the component
    remains dependent on externally-funded consultancy services with limited emerging RHD "ownership."
    The component therefore achieved only limited results of a wider institutional development nature;
l Despite efforts made through the project on road maintenance, GoB has not yet fundamentally
    addressed the root causes of the poor road maintenance in the country, such as (i) insufficient funds for
    maintenance; (ii) increasing overloaded truck traffic; (iii) absence of adequate technical and financial
    audits; and (iv) political interference in inefficient allocation of limited resource for prioritized projects.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1   This is the third IDA-funded road sector project with RHD. Most of physical works funded by the
project were already integrated into the regular operation of the department, which has minimized the need
for special transition arrangements. Additionally, it is worth noting that the first toll road with O&M
concession in Bangladesh was established through the project, which outsourced road maintenance to the
private sector.

6.2.2   However, despite the insistence of both IDA and DFID, the request for conversion of 63 regular
posts still have not yet been approved by GoB. Given that DFID will complete its support to CIDC-3 in
March 2006, appropriate arrangements (including adequate resources) have yet to be made by GoB to
continue implementing and operating the outputs of CIDC-3 beyond March 2006.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:



                                                       - 14 -

7.1.1    Identification of the project was satisfactory. The Task Team ensured that the project objectives
were consistent with the Government and IDA strategies. IDA assigned a qualified team to the project with
the appropriate skill mix and country knowledge to deliver a well designed project, focusing on the sector's
highest priorities including maintenance of the existing road network, road safety, feeder roads, and
institutional capacity of RHD in road maintenance and financial management. The close cooperation in
project preparation permitted transfer of technical knowledge to the Bangladesh counterparts.

7.1.2    IDA's assistance to project preparation was satisfactory. From the previous two road projects, it
was learned that the poor quality of projects at entry and weak institutional capacity resulted in project
management and administration being the weakest areas for implementing road projects in the country. For
RRMP III the Task Team incorporated the following specific measures in the design and implementation of
the project, including: (i) preparation, review, and agreement of engineering, social, environmental, and
institutional aspects of the project with the client prior to implementation; (ii) strengthening of basic
institutional capacity for effective project management implemented early in the life of the project (i.e., a
small-scale reorganization of RHD and the establishment of a highway maintenance unit in RHD and an
Office of Project Director (OPD) as conditions of negotiations, and appointment of experts in engineering,
finance, social, and environment, as well as appointment of all supervision consultants); (iii) strengthening
of procurement capacity to handle the first year's contracts prior to credit approval; and (iv) establishment
of a Project Steering Committee (PSC) consisting of high-level officials from all GoB organizations related
to the project to ensure inter-agency coordination. However, the results/outcome monitoring framework was
weak in the project design.

7.1.3    The PAD assessment of implementing agency capacity was adequate. The economic analysis
indicated that the proposed road improvements and periodic maintenance would be feasible. The project's
main risks and benefits were identified correctly. IDA had a consistently good working relationship with the
borrower during project preparation and appraisal. However, there were some weaknesses in IDA's
appraisal of the project as summarized in 3.5.2, in particular, the PAD assessment of the Government's
commitment to institutional and policy reforms was inadequate. The rating for the appraisal of the project
is moderately satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1    The IDA's supervision of the physical investments component was satisfactory. It benefited from
the almost same team as in preparation over the period of the project implementation. This arrangement
contributed to consistent approaches to road sector issues, procurement, safeguards, and disbursement.
The task team worked closely with RHD and provided extensive assistance and technical guidance. Other
key contributions from the Bank supervision team were in the areas of promoting and implementing
innovative concepts in Bangladesh such as toll roads, community-based road safety campaigns, separated
rickshaw lanes, a highway patrol, and attention to proper road maintenance. During supervision, the IDA
team took appropriate and prompt actions after it found some outstanding resettlement issues and helped
resolve them, but the absence of environmental specialist in some supervision missions severely affected
monitoring of the implementation of the EIAs and EMPs. In addition, there were weaknesses in monitoring
and updating outcome indicators.

7.2.2    The IDA's supervision of the institutional development component (IDC3 and CIDC3) was
moderately unsatisfactory because of the following weakness: (i) the component was not well defined at
the time of appraisal and was often overlooked by the IDA team as the component was co-funded by DFID;
(ii) lack of an institutional specialist in the supervision team significantly constrained the team's ability to
practise critical quality control over IDC consultants' works; (iii) acceptance of inadequate interactions
with DFID and RHD that were strongly influenced by progress reports or briefs produced by the IDC


                                                      - 15 -

consultants themselves; and (iv) IDA team did not proactively join DFID's efforts to address institutional
development matters and did not create a candid and productive collaboration (other than just information
sharing) with local DFID representatives.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
7.3.1    The Bank's overall performance is rated as moderately satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1    The Borrower's performance in lending is assessed as satisfactory. The project was prepared
directly following up on the successful implementation of two previous road rehabilitation projects in
Bangladesh. There was very close cooperation at the time of preparation between the Government and the
Bank. The leadership and vision provided by the main counterpart in RHD ensured that the project that
was developed was appropriate to the needs of Bangladesh. Representatives from all the counterpart
agencies were involved in the preparation of the loan.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1    The Government's implementation performance is assessed as satisfactory based on the assessment
of achievement of the project as outlined in Section 4. Nearly all the key conditions of the loan were
fulfilled. The Government delivered by allocating adequate authority and resources to project counterparts
who were able to deliver the project. However, support from the government to the institutional
development aspects of the project was weak. For example, the issue of conversion of 63 regular posts
before closure of the DFID funding has not yet been resolved. Furthermore, parallel reforms to effectively
tackle with structural issues such as management performance, staff motivation, executive leadership, etc.,
have not yet been carried out promptly.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1    The performance of the Implementing Agency, who had satisfactorily implemented the previous
two road sector projects, is assessed as moderately satisfactory. While there were some delays mainly
due to devastating floods and resettlement issues, the implementation of the project was generally smooth
and acceptable, and key intended outputs were produced by end of project (EOP). But there were remaining
areas of significant concern, i.e., inadequate compliance in introducing and adhering to the key provisions
of the GoB's Public Procurement Regulations (PPR). Disbursement of the Creidt was suspended once, for
about two months in mid-2002, due to delay in distributing compensation to PAPs. The delay was mainly
caused by the NGOs which were responsible for distributing compensations but did not approprately
manage resettlement data, especially in relation to the additional land acquired during the implementation.
The issue was quickly resolved after RHD took remedial actions recommended by the IDA team.

7.6.2    In general there was full continuity in staffing of the Project Team. However, changes in senior
management (CE) of RHD had adverse effects on decision making regarding contractual matters, the role
for which fell under the jurisdiction of the CE designated as the "Engineer." Furthermore, the RHD did not
fully commit to recruiting well qualified non-engineers, such as environmental and social development
experts.

7.6.3    RHD did not proactively supervise IDC3/CIDC3 consultants' work and operationalize outputs of
the TA and IDC activities. There was also a lack of systematic documentation in the project management,
e.g., there was no documentation of public consultations on environmental management plans, which to
some extent prevented effective independent audits and external reviews.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:



                                                    - 16 -

7.7.1   The overall performance of the Government and RHD during RRMP III is rated moderately
satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1     Future Bank assistance should focus more on improving the institutional framework and
governance structure within which the road transport sector is managed and financed. Because road
transport investment is the largest capital expenditure in the country, governance issues in the sector take
on added importance. The poor governance structure, high transaction costs, and protracted delays during
procurement and implementation of works all contribute to the high overall cost of road construction in
Bangladesh, one of the most expensive in the region. Governance problems also affect the planning and
budgeting of road investment, as well as the performance of sector staff. Supporting procurement reform
and improving competitive contracting procedures for maintenance are likely to increase the transparency
of road works procurement. Other reforms aimed at instituting a transparent planning and budget allocation
process, and at commercializing or privatizing RHD's non-core activities will also help improve the overall
governance environment in the road sector.

8.2     Successful implementation of institutional and policy reforms in the road transport sector
requires more than capacity building. It also requires (i) strong and sustained commitment for reforms
by senior policy makers of the government; (ii) full coordination and reinforcement from key donors; (iii)
use of consultants with local knowledge to assist with the implementation of complex reforms; (iv)
meaningful consultation with the public; (v) clear defined objectives or outcomes of the reforms, effective
project incentives, leverage and/or associated credit conditionality; and (vi) adequate supervision,
monitoring, and evaluation.

8.3     Parallel reforms in GoB public administration are also important. Most of the current
management and governance concerns at RHD reportedly also exist in other GoB agencies. Accordingly,
alongside sectoral interventions, the Bank and other donors' dialogue with GoB should pursue development
of more strategic parallel reforms in GoB public administration, aimed at an enhanced framework for
agencies to deliver effective performance management, substantive accountability, and improved executive
leadership and staff motivation. Without such reforms, RHD and similar agencies will not respond
adequately to sectoral policy and process changes. However, given the confrontational political context in
the country, such public administration reforms need to be delinked from politicians and focus on
professional aspects of the public servants system.

8.4     Future Bank operations should also focus more on real outcomes rather than inputs or
outputs. Design of the new operations need to address issues such as (i) specificity of outcome level
performance indicators and appropriateness of the mechanisms for measuring these indicators; (ii)
incentive structures in the government and implementing agencies for outcome monitoring; (iii)
accountability of implementing agencies in terms of outcomes; (iv) technical know-how for developing and
operationalizing outcomes-level monitoring systems; and (v) coordination with other donors on outcome
monitoring.

8.5     RHD's public procurement processes need significant improvement to ensure transparency
and accountability. Compliance by RHD in introducing and adhering to the key provisions of the GoB's
PPRs are still inadequate. For example, (a) the abolition of the Chief Engineer's Procurement Scrutiny
Committee to review the bid evaluation committee reports for contracts prior to being approved by the
Chief Engineer is still not realized; (b) the continued non-submission of bid evaluation reports directly to
the contract approving authority, without any in-between reviews; (c) delays in the clearing of procurement



                                                    - 17 -

cases at various levels within RHD/MoC without regard to the government mandated procedures; and (d)
non-delegation of improved financial powers at decentralized levels. These significant deviations may
provide "multiple rent seeking" opportunities, and cause inordinate delays in completing the procurement
process for IDA and other donor-assisted projects. To prevent corruption in future operations with RHD,
IDA teams need to work with GoB and other donors to (i) strengthen fiduciary safeguards and improve
governance practices in RHD and MoC in advance of any proposed project, (ii) identify risk mitigation
measures which will subsequently be built into the project implementation arrangements and the financial
management framework, (iii) follow the Procurement Approval Timetable/Flowchart given in Annex A to
the Bangladesh Public Procurement Processing and Approval Procedure (PPPAP, October 11, 2004), and
(iv) in accordance with PPPAP, appoint two procurement experts from independent reputed institutions as
external members in evaluation committees.

8.6      The independent "Engineer" role separated from the "Employer" should be mandatory in
road sector projects which normally involve a large amount of civil works. Despite IDA's push during
the project implementation, consultants acted only as the "Engineer's representative" while RHD was both
the "Employer" and the "Engineer." This practice severely undermined the independence of the "Engineer"
which is the cornerstone of the International Federation of Consulting Engineers' (FIDIC) procedures and
also affected the transparency of contract administration. In fact, by restricting international consultants
from exercising their independent rights, GoB is not fully utilizing the consultants' services in spite of
paying a huge fees for their services. For new projects in the transport sector, Consultant should perform
the role of "Engineer" with all obligations including quality and certification.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

  Comments by the Roads and Highways Department, Ministry of Communications, Government of
                                                 Bangladesh

I        Introduction

1.1      RRMP-III is the third of the series of IDA-assisted Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Projects
designed for capacity building of the Bangladesh Roads and Highways Department (RHD) through
network improvements and institutional uprages. The project commenced in 1999 and was completed in
2005 with an estimated cost of US$ 424.69 million. The time period for the project appears long, but in the
context of Bangladesh, this is normal due to the difficult geographical locations and persistance of natural
calamities such as floods as well as the comprehensive nature of the project objectives.

1.2      To achieve faster economic progress through the effective use of the newly constructed Jamuna
Multipurpose Bridge, this project undertook a major program to upgrade the national road network. To
ensure more balanced development throughout Bangladesh, a major component of the project focused on
the road network in the less developed western part of the country. The project commenced in 1999 and
completed in 2005.

1.3      The following sections describe borrower's (including RHD and GoB) observations and
evaluations about the project upon its successful completion.

II       Project Description




                                                    - 18 -

2.1     The objective of the project as stated in the Project Proforma was to reduce the overall cost of road
transport in Bangladesh. This objective was envisioned to be achieved through:

   l Providing and improving critical road links to address "bottlenecks" in the arterial road network of
        the country by - (a) constructing the new Nalka-Hatikamrul-Nalka road link, (b) rehabilitating the
        Dhaka-Sylhet Highway, (c) improving selected FRAs, and (d) strengthening and preserving
        selected National and Regional Highways with substantial periodic maintenance activities.
   l Improving the institutional capacity of RHD for road asset management, preservation, and
        financial management.

2.2     Physical works in this project include:

   l New Construction of 120 km of new national highway.                       This includes the 51 km
        Hatikamrul-Bonpara section of the Nalka-Hatikamrul-Bonpara road and 69 km of the
        Auskandi-Jagadishpur section of the Dhaka-Sylhet road.
   l Rehabilitation of a 161 km section of the 225 km Dhaka-Sylhet road including improved
        geometry, straightening, bypasses, new and improved drainage structures, and 10 year design life
        pavement on embankment that has been raised above high flood level.
   l Improvement of 20 FRAs with a total length of 400 km in the western half of the country. The
        roads have been provided with 10 years design life pavement, hard shoulder, and reconstructed
        bridges and culverts at selected points.
   l Periodic Maintenance to extend the service life of 18 national and regional highways in the
        western part of the country that were constructed or reconstructed under previous projects. The
        total length covered is 627 km.
   l Road Safety programs to improve the safety situation at the country 30 nos. black spots have been
        improved in the western part of the country through widening, channelization, road marking, traffic
        sign installation and bus-bay construction. Traffic sign and thermoplastic road marking has also
        been provided on 1534.00 km roads in that part of the country.
   l Axle Load Control Stations at three strategic locations were built to control road damage caused
        by over-loaded truck traffic. The stations are located in Auskandi on Dhaka-Sylhet road, Sitakunda
        on Dhaka-Chittagong road, and Manikgonj on Dhaka-Aricha highway. The latter two are fully
        financed by GoB and to be completed in December 2005. The Auskandi station was completed in
        March 2005.

III     Project Preparation and Implementation

3.1     Project Design. The RRMP-III, was designed considering the following sector issues and
government strategies:

   l Implementation of GoB's 1991 Road Master Plan (RMP) for the National and Regional road
        network. This includes (a) construction of the 55 km long Nalka-Hatikamrul-Bonpara Highway,
        and (b) rehabilitation of the 225 km long Dhaka-Sylhet road.
   l Improvement of agriculture based national economy by providing access to Thana Head Quarters
        (Police Station) and important growth centers. This includes improvement of 400 km of FRAs.
   l Institutional capacity development of RHD in road asset preservation. This includes creation of
        related units in RHD and training of RHD engineers through the DFID-financed IDC and
        undertaking periodic maintenance programs for 627 km of selected national and regional highways.
   l Creation of a Financial Management Cell in RRMP-III for the improvement of financial




                                                    - 19 -

         management in RHD commensurate with the large investments and reorganization activities going
         in the department.
   l Improvement of road safety, traffic management and axle load control situation in Bangladesh.
         This includes creation of a National Road Safety Council and formulation of a National Road
         Safety Strategy. A comprehensive axle load control program has also been prepared.

3.2      Project Appraisal. The appraisal of the project took place in June 1998. RRMP-III is a sector
development project of RHD. In this context, the inclusion of above objectives and their implementation
have been found appropriate for the improvement of the national road network and associated institutional
capacity enhancements. The PAD detailed the project objectives and scope of work described above in the
Project Design section. There was no major departure in the scope of work during implementation of the
project except traffic management and axle load control works. Due to some local constraints, the scope of
these works was reduced. However, they are reflected through the creation of the Highway Patrol Police
and construction of 20 Axle Load Control Stations from GoB funding.

3.3      Project Implementation. The project has been implemented quite satisfactorily, though delayed by
one year due to three major floods during the project period. The 1998 flood required changes in input data
for the design of roads and structures, which delayed the start of the project. The 2000 and 2004 floods
hindered project progress, by causing work stoppages, demobilization and remobilization, rehabilitation of
damaged sections, and extended protective works. All the contracts (with the exception of two terminated
FRA contracts) have been completed as per original scope of work. The project found poor performance by
a few contractors, which delayed overall project completion. However, the significant development of local
road industry has been achieved through this project and reflected through the awarding of 35 nos.
contracts to local and JV contractors out of total of 40 nos. contracts.

3.4      The procurement of feasibility study and design consultants for this project were done under the
follow-up component of the previous IDA funded project, RRMP-II. This helped facilitate the early start of
some of the project works and provided project management with a distributed workload over the project
period. The performance of the consultants was satisfactory with the exception of some changes to their
key staffing during the work implementation.

3.5      Project Management. The project management was carried out by RHD engineers with necessary
support from consultants. The Project Management Unit - Office of Project Director (OPD) was headed by
an Additional Chief Engineer of RHD, who was supported by two Superintendant Engineers and eight
Executive Engineers with their supporting professional staff. The periodic maintenance and feeder road
components were implemented by local RHD units and field engineers. Three local technical advisors were
appointed to support the PMU on management, resettlement, and financial issues, but they failed to provide
significant inputs into project management.

IV       Project Results

4.1      RHD's own assessment showed that the objectives of the project were achieved in most cases
despite constraints regarding repeated force majeure, delay due to design review, absence of commitment of
some contractors, and shortage of counterpart GoB funding. The project outcomes are described below
under different sub-headings:

4.2      Physical Works. Most of the road works except a few kilometers of FRA have been completed
satisfactorily. A post construction economic analysis of the road works by RHD using HDM-4 shows that
all the works taken under the project are economically viable with EIRR ranges from 18 percent to 198


                                                    - 20 -

percent, which are higher than the values mentioned in the PAD.

4.3     Besides economic and social aspects, travel time has been reduced considerably throughout the
country due to improvement of a big portion of the national road network. As a result, vehicle-operating
cost has been reduced by 16 percent. Massive road safety works through black spots development, road
furniture works and awareness campaigns have helped keep road casualty levels in check despite increased
mobility on a larger network.

4.4     In 2000 flood considerable section of the RHD road network was damaged and the 'Flood
Damaged Rehabilitation Project of 2000' was undertaken from from 2001-2004 as part of the IDA credit
for RRMP-III. A total of 214.40 km road, 40 m bridge, and a 67.9 m box culvert in the Khulna and
Rajshahi regions were rehabilitated or reconstructed under this project at a cost of Tk. 456.15 million.

4.5     Institutional Development. Institutional development was an integral part of RRMP-III, which
was included to consolidate the achievements during RRMP-I and RRMP-II. DFID was the principal
funding agency in this part through the IDC. Under the IDC, RHD was reorganized to strengthen its
headquarters functions. Establishment of the HDM circle, MIS circle, Environment circle, Road Safety and
Design circle and re-organization of Technical Services and Planning & Maintenance Wings have been
completed.

4.6     Under IDC-3, CIDC-3 and different RHD projects several standards and manuals have been
introduced by RHD. These include Standard Technical Specifications, Standard Testing Procedures, a
Road Safety Engineering Manual, a Road Sign Manual, Maintenance Manual, Pavement Design Manual,
and a RHD Management Manual. These have helped to improve the quality of RHD activities. One of the
most important achievements has been the preparation and approval of the National Land Transport Policy
(NLTP) by the GoB. This policy will ensure balance and appropriate surface transport development in the
country.

4.7     Management Plans for different RHD wings in headquarters, in the field, as well as for the
Mechanical wing have been prepared and implemented. A Foreign Aided Projects (FAPs) Management
Plan for RHD has also been prepared and will be implemented in the coming months. This will enhance
RHD's capacity for procuring and implementing projects.

4.8     RHD has been covered by a computer networking system with effective LAN and WAN systems.
This made RHD a pioneer among GoB organizations for incorporating e-governance. A network-based
Central Monitoring System (CMS) has also been introduced to modernize RHD's monitoring activities.

4.9     Under RRMP-III funding of a trial pavement construction program was undertaken in BRRL. This
has helped facilitate the development of the Standard Technical Specifications for RHD. The trial findings
show that brick aggregates and stone aggregates can be used at various ratios for pavement base and
sub-base construction. Introduction of these findings have helped to reduce the standard RHD rates for the
base and sub-base construction by about 20 percent.

4.10    Road Safety. Road safety was an important component of the RRMP-III. A total of 30 nos. black
spots were improved in the western part of the country through widening, channelization, road marking,
traffic sign installation, and bus-bay construction. Traffic sign and thermoplastic road marking were
provided on 1,534.00 km roads in that part of the country. Under this component, a Road Safety
Engineering Manual was also developed for RHD.




                                                   - 21 -

4.11     Road safety awareness campaigns were undertaken in the Dhaka-Sylhet Highway and
Jessore-Khulna Highway corridors. Two well known non-profit organizations, BRAC and Sheltech
Foundation, were engaged respectively for these programs. Some of the activities under these campaigns
included road safety training for road users, introduction of road safety cadets, observation of road safety
day, road safety theater, distribution of road safety cassettes, installation of road safety billboards, and
distribution of road safety stickers to non-motorized vehicles.

4.12     A road safety animation film has been developed to air on television. Four episodes of the film
"Lal, Holud aar Sabuj" have been developed by BRAC under this project. It is expected that private
sponsors will help produce more episodes to promote road safety awareness activities in the country.

4.13       The Bangladesh Highway Patrol (BHP) has also been established by GoB, after it was
recommended in a RRMP-III study led by highway patrol expert Rohit Baluja, President of Institute of
Road Traffic Education, New Delhi.

4.14     Financial Management. To improve the financial management of RHD projects, a Financial
Management Cell (FMC) has been created under the RRMP-III. Initially organized to oversee the financial
management of IDA-assisted RHD projects, the FMC is expected tol have greater role in the future to
consolidate the financial activities of RHD.

4.15     Under FMC, the introduction of computerized systems has helped the organization to obtain
comprehensive financial accounting and management information that the manual system is unable to
provide. The system provides actual versus budgeted expenditures and generates Schedule of Withdrawal
of Proceeds and Statement of Expenditure forms, including all the LACI forms of reporting required for
IDA processing of withdrawals from the credit.

4.16     Training. The targets for training activities stated in the Performance Indicators (See Table-1)
have been surpassed. Most training in this period has focused on RHD engineers and support staff. As a
result, 16 RHD engineers have been post-graduated under DFID funding in Pavement Engineering, GIS,
MIS, Construction Management and Maintenance Management. Some of these engineers are providing
specialized services in recently created RHD units. Overseas training have also been provided to RHD and
MoC officials under other components of RRMP-III.V         Sustainability

V        Sustainability

5.1      Present activities in RHD to ensure sustainability of the development objectives of RRMP-III
include the application of a central management system to promote e-governance; use of RHD Systems and
Procedures for the procurement and implementation of RHD works, increased attention to road asset
preservation through preventitive maintenance; improved resettlement and environmental measures; and use
of new RHD units for network planning, procurement of increasingly mechanized construction, and
out-sourcing for the operation and maintenance of big structures.

VI       Bank's Performance

6.1      The support from the Bank's preparation and supervision missions was critical for the successful
implementation of the project. The Bank's missions were comprised of technical experts in all the major
project sectors who helped solvw technical bottlenecks in project implementation. Missions were also
helpful for ensuring better coordination among various GoB departments regarding project funding,
administrative approvals, land acquisition, and resettlement works.


                                                    - 22 -

VII      LESSONS LEARNED

7.1      Many of the findings and lessons learned from project preparation, feasibility studies, design and
supervision works, land acquisition, resettlement works, and other institution issues will help to ensure
improved implementation of future projects. The findings, with specific recommendations, are stated in the
following sub-headings:

7.2      Project Preparation. The preparation of projects funded by foreign donors has been difficult for
RHD due to absence of any dedicated RHD wing for implementing these types of projects. Though
preparation of this project was considered as a follow-up component to RRMP-II, it was nevertheless
difficult to engage all necessary manpower from RRMP-II to implement RRMP-II. As a result, engineers
from different RHD wings were brought in to assist with the project. Such arrangement cannot ensure
timely completion of a procurement plan and lack of necessary procurement training of this group of
engineers was had an adverse effect on project preparation.

7.3      This observation is also relevant for the presently under preparation RSRP and other RHD projects
supported by other development partners. To overcome this situation a Foreign Aided Project Management
Unit needs to be formed. A RHD committee with support from CIDC-3 consultants is now working to
propose such a unit and to prepare a manual for the unit. However, it is recommended that this unit should
be designed in such a way that the group of engineers to be engaged for the preparation of a project should
be properly trained before starting their jobs, and they should continue their service during the
implementation of the project to ensure ownership as well as accountability.

7.4      Engineering Issues. Engineering issues are important as most of the project funds goes to
engineering construction. Main engineering aspects include:

   l Feasibility studies
   l Design of selected roads & bridges and cost estimates
   l Construction of roads and bridges


7.5      Feasibility studies are important for selecting the best candidates for scarce resources. Feasibility
studies have often faced setbacks in RHD due to the following reasons, which require further attention:

   l Insufficient coordination in RHD among projects supported by different development partners as
         well as project undertaken by GoB. This often resutls in roads being ignored. For example N7
         (Jessore-Khulna) and N8 (Faridpur-Barisal) are not included in any project yet although those
         require improvements, while widening of some parts of the N3 (Dhaka-Mymensingh) began just
         months before its improvement under the proposed RSRP.
   l The absence of proper counterparts often leaves consultants helpless as well as unaccountable for
         their work. In the preparation of the RSRP this has been taken care of, but this needs to be
         institutionalized for all works in RHD.
   l Absence of adequate secondary data resulted in consultants spending a great deal of time searching
         and time for data using arbitrary figures, which were often inappropriate for the local conditions.
         RHD now has got a library, but it is in need of an upgrade with an archive section to preserve past
         and future project documents.
   l Repetition of feasibility studies for the same road often occure resulting in an inefficeint use of
         resources and time. Therefore, the feasibility study component should be coordinated from a single
         point, or RHD should have a regular program for feasibility studies. This study should be available


                                                     - 23 -

       for different projects to select their program in a coordinated approach. This will ensure a speedy
       and effective network development in RHD.
   l RHD is known as a pioneer of e-governance within the GoB. Major findings of all the feasibility
       studies carried out in RHD can be put in a designated folder for easy access.
   l Important Feasibility study indicators like NPV, IRR, BCR are often confusing, as consultants use
       different standards and data sources. As such RHD should develop its own standard for calculating
       these indicators, and advicate that other related GoB organizations publish essential yearly data for
       the required parameters.

7.6    The design component of road and bridge works are often delyed for a long time as the consultants
simply follow the designs of previous projects. Cost estimates often deviate significantly, which causes
problems in contract administration. Major findings include:

   l Country-specific issues regarding materials and the environment should be considered in the design
       of roads and structures. It is very difficult to provide a new concept within the short time frame of
       the design stage. However, there should be at least a few sections in every project for roads
       constructed with new design and their evaluation for future reference.
   l The consultants usually create the pavement design by following different design catalogues and
       propose a compromised section in terms of cost and reference to other projects. This is not a
       modern approach and cannot be acceptable from costly overseas consultants. This approach often
       leads to under design of upper layers of pavement and over design in the lower layers. Alternative
       materials are not given any weight at all. Moreover, pavement internal drainage issues are mostly
       overlooked. For Bangladesh situation the consultants should follow a semi-mechanistic design
       approach if not a completely mechanistic one. This would allow a balanced design in terms of costs
       and conditions and the pavement would have a longer expected service life.
   l Overloaded truck traffic is a big problem for the service life of pavement in Bangladesh. A
       different design with thicker, stronger upper structural layers in the form of a cement-stabilized
       base and or thick bituminous course with low penetration bitumen may be tried. Cost of such
       construction should not be more for requiring lesser thickness of the underlying unbound layers.
   l In many cases, the consultants propose demolition of existing structures in order to widen them.
       These types of suggestions were reviewed in RRMP-III, but in many other projects this is going on.
       The Terms of Reference for the consultancy service should be written in a way that will encourage
       other cost-effective solutions.
   l Cost estimates prepared by the consultants were often found inappropriate during implementation,
       particularly for earthwork and embankment protection. Lack of necessary site surveys and absence
       of far-sightedness often led to this situation. Consultants ensre that these issues are addressed.

7.7    Construction is the most difficult part of the project. In addition to coordination among the client,
consultants, and contractors, many other issues emerge for the successful implementation of a project.
Some of the observations and recommendations include:

   l The selection of contractor plays a vital role in the success of timely construction. Therefore,
       foreign contractors who do not have experience in working in Bangladesh in the last few years shall
       only be in JV with a reputed local firm. Because of socioeconomic conditions in a developing
       countries, a new overseas firm often faces problems launching new ventures in addition to delays in
       procurement of equipment and manpower. As a result in construction activity at the front end of
       the project may be hastened putting pressure on local resources and quality control.
   l Incentives must be provided to develop the local construction industry. The current system of
       financial preference often leads to abnormally low rate quotes by some overseas contractors. This


                                                     - 24 -

        ultimately hampers project implementation. To avoid this situation, some of the contract packages
        of a project may be categorized as specialized or big, only procured through ICB and no financial
        privilege will be given to local contractors.
   l Weather and geographical conditions in Bangladesh limit the working period for embankment
        construction to only 3-months and for pavement to only 6-months. This results in long
        implementation periods and high cost to the contractors. Contractors may be awarded bonuses for
        early construction by proposing new design or CPM for implementation within the approved
        contract cost. This would help to develop new ideas and concepts by the contractors that ultimately
        benefit the country.
   l Constant quality control testing is essential for big contracts. It is often impossible to attend to
        most of the testing work by the RHD representative because of other responsibilites. Therefore, a
        matrix/methodology for post construction quality control operation may be adopted for RHD
        engineers to ensure quality work by the contractors. The contractor will do the tests as per
        specifications. The RHD and consultant's representatives will present in the tests like mix design,
        pile load tests etc., but for other regular tests they will do post work tests on random sampling to
        check the accuracy of the contractor's testing. As such the quality control can be ensured even with
        less input from consultants and the client.
   l Getting skilled technicians and laborers is a major problem in project implementation. To address
        this problem, a special program may be included in every project to provide skills development
        training to local people working on the project under different contractors. This may also be made
        compulsory to the contractors at their own cost or the program may be undertaken jointly by the
        consultant's and the contractor's under the client's auspices.
   l Use of advanced equipment like pavers for laying unbound layers, nuclear densitometer, batch
        plant for large scale concrete work, use of necessary additives in bituminous and concrete works
        need to be encouraged for speeding progress and quality assurance.

7.8     Pre-Construction Issues. Pre-construction activities are important at the early stages of a project,
and the following points should be considered:

   l The local units as well as concerned planning units should be informed immediately of the possible
        inclusion of a road project to avoid costly construction and maintenance activities on it.
   l Land acquisition is a lengthy process and delays project completion in many cases. Land
        acquisition activities may be started just after the completion of the feasibility study. This can be
        initiated by the local RHD unit if the project is delayed.
   l The government normally completes project componetns with some local resources such as land
        acquisition and construction of embankments on a prioritized project. As such if IDA supports only
        government prioritized projects, the amount for land acquisition would be reduced.
   l A simplified procedure for land acquisition should be formulated to speed up this activity. The
        implementing agency may be allowed to proceed with its project on the selected private land after
        giving adequate time for resettlement if any and the compensation activities can be continued as
        required.
   l Present trend of diversion or bypass construction should be reviewed to save agricultural land,
        huge resettlement and compensation activities. Widening of roads with necessary service lanes in
        many bazaar areas may be more practical rather than providing them with bypasses.
   l Resettlement of squatters should be confined to people living below poverty line only.
   l The resettlement costs for squatters can be minimized by enacting and enforcing stringent laws
        against encroachment.

7.9     Other Issues. Institutional development is a hidden agenda in the RRMPs since its inception. This


                                                     - 25 -

is commendable as local forces are often adverse to any change. However, the reforms proposed are often
unclear and difficult to achieve. Creation of new wings or even new departments are often found to be
additional burdens that provide no new benefits. However, changes made in RHD with the inclusion of the
HDM unit, road safety unit, environment & resettlement unit, MIS and Estate unit helped modernization of
RHD. But the absence of necessary logistical support for some units (e.g. road safety unit and environment
and resettlement unit) limited thie effectiveness. It is recommended to provide necessary logistic support
and wide-scale training to relevant RHD staff of all the new units for their proper functioning. Concerned
civil works projects may include these provisions.

VIII     Conclusion

8.1      The Third Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project was a multidimensional project for road
sector development, that addressed major disconnects in the construction and rehabilitation of a major
corridor, periodic maintenance to 17 nos. of national and regional highways, improvement of 15 nos. feeder
roads, improvement of road safety features of 1,566 km of national and regional highways, development of
33 nos. black spots. It also produced a road safety awareness campaign, support for the establishment of
the road safety cell, production of a road safety animation film, construction of axle load control stations
and toll collection system, maintenance of new road sections under O&M contract, and umbrella cover to
the institutional activities of the RHD and MoC. These activities indicate the extent and contribution of the
project to the road sector development of the country. Termination of two feeder road contracts was a set
back to the project, but the authority had to do it with bank's concurrence when all the persuasion to the
contractor ended with no result. The non-completion of the two contracts has had only a minor effect in
comparision to the large scope of the overall project. A devastating flood in 2004 did not produce any extra
project costs, while many changes in design and estimates were undertaken to accommodate needed
changes but with prudent reviews within contract prices.

8.2      From RHD's point of view, the project can be termed as a success, the administration of which has
brought a great deal of experience in project management to RHD, and aid in better project design and
implementation in coming years.

(b) Cofinanciers:

                 Comments by the DFID, Department of International Development, UK

I        Introduction

1.1      RRMP III was the third project of a 14 year World Bank/DFID programme in support of better
rehabilitation and maintenance of Bangladesh's major road system. The GoB partner institution was Roads
and Highways Department (RHD) in the Ministry of Communications. DFID's contribution has been in
attempting to strengthen RHD's institutional capacity (CIDC3).

1.2       The following comments attempt to address three issues:
    l the successes and weaknesses of the CIDC3 component;
    l the effectiveness of World Bank/DFIDB collaboration; and
    l options for the future.


II       Institutional Strengthening in RHD (IDC/CIDC3)

2.1      The DFID-funded CIDC3 project started in April 2003, which is a continuation of the previous



                                                    - 26 -

DFID-funded IDC (Institutional Development Component). With a one-year extension, CIDC3 comes to an
end in March 2006. Good progress has been made in developing and, to a lesser extent, implementing
improved physical and financial management systems for road maintenance (HDM4 model for
prioritisation; Roads and Bridges Asset Management System-RAMS; and the Central Management
System- CMS).

2.2      In July 2004, DFIDB approved a five-year, £36 million programme of sector budget support for
periodic road maintenance through RHD. In order better to manage fiduciary risk, DFIDB agreed with the
Secretary, Finance, that four "milestones" of management effectiveness that would "trigger" disbursements
of sector budget support. The "milestones" centred on prioritisation, tendering, specifications and quality
assurance and required the effective use of the HDM4, RAMS and CMS systems installed with the help of
CIDC3. Progress has been made against the "milestones" but there is still some reluctance in parts of
RHD to make effective use of its new management systems.

2.3      Sector budget support is also linked to the establishment of an autonomous Road Maintenance
Fund, with technical assistance being provided by CIDC3. Progress has been made, but we await Cabinet
approval for the establishment of the Fund.

2.4      The main lesson learnt from CIDC3 and its predecessors is that internal restructuring and the
development of better and more transparent financial and physical management systems will not by
themselves deliver the "step change" in RHD's performance that we are seeking. External pressure, to an
extent from donors, but crucially from Government (Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Communications) is
also required.

III      World Bank /DFID Collaboration

3.1      Communications between the World Bank and DFID on RRMP3 are good. DFID has been kept
fully informed about RRMP III and DFID has ensured that all CIDC3 review teams consult the World
Bank. More generally, the Transport Local Consultative Group does an excellent job in providing a forum
for communication across the donor community. However, the emphasis is on communication, rather than
active collaboration.

3.2      Communication is not always enough. Active collaboration is sometimes needed. We would have
welcomed a more active role by the World Bank in influencing Government in favour of a Road Fund.

3.3      Over the past year, DFID has been reviewing its involvement in the transport sector. This
uncertainty - and more recently the uncertainty over the World Bank's RSRP ­ has impacted on the
dialogue between the two institutions. As the framework for DFID's future support has been agreed in
principle, it is important to strengthen dialogue with the World Bank.

IV       The Future

4.1      DFID has agreed, in principle, to a three-year programme to;

   l Consolidate the gains made over the past 14 years in RHD;
   l Manage effectively the fiduciary risk associated with sector budget support;
   l Establish an autonomous Road Maintenance Fund; and
   l Ensure the continuation of a transport policy and coordination function in Government.




                                                     - 27 -

4.2      Over this period, DFID will be looking to other donors to play a greater role in any further
institutional strengthening in RHD. Hence, dialogue and active collaboration between World Bank and
DFID will be very important.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

N/A

10. Additional Information

N/A




                                                - 28 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Road accident fatality rate (fatality per  50                                    60
10,000 vehicles)
2. Reduction of Vehicle operating cost on     20 %                                  16 %
upgraded roads (proxy: road roughness)
3. Reduction of core network in poor          10 %                                  15 %
condition




Output Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Priority roads and bridges upgraded        (a) Nalka-Bonpara road: 50 km;        (a) 55 km;
                                              (b) Dhaka - Sylhet road: 220 km;      (b) 224 km;


2. No. of accident blackspot locations        30                                    35
improved
3. No. of new road maintenance contractors    10                                    15
established


1End of project




                                                                - 29 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                Appraisal          Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                                 Estimate            Estimate          Appraisal
                           Component                            US$ million         US$ million
A. Physical Investments                                                                                    84.73
(A1) Nalka-Hatikamrul-Bonpara (N-H-B)Road                          59.64                 50.97             85.46
(A2) Dhaka-Sylhet (D-S) Road                                      146.00                123.95              84.9
(A3) Improvement of Feeder Roads Type A (FRA)                      78.50                 59.93             76.34
(A4) Narrow Bridges*                                                9.50                 12.31           129.58
(A5) Maintenance of RHD Roads                                      58.00                 51.45             88.71
(A6) Road Safety Improvement                                       16.60                 13.40             80.72
B. Institutional Development & Technical Assistance                34.13                 27.86             81.63
C. Land Acquisition & Resettlement                                 30.22                 37.80           125.08
D. 2000 Flood Restoration Component**                                                      4.21

Total Baseline Cost                                               432.59                381.88
 Physical Contingencies                                            64.89                 52.09
 Price Contingencies                                               31.08                 34.09
                             Total Project Costs                  528.56                468.06
                      Total Financing Required                    528.56                468.06
*The Narrow Bridges component, which was cofinanced by DFID, was separated from the RRMP-III project
during the project implementation.
**The 2000 Flood Restoration Project was added to the RRMP-III in 2001 after the flood in 2000 damaged many
sections of the existing roads.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                            1
                                                    Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category              ICB             NCB                     2           N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                       Other
1. Works                             329.90           100.00            0.00               11.60         441.50
                                     (180.00)         (54.50)          (0.00)              (0.00)       (234.50)
2. Goods                               6.40            2.00             0.00                0.00          8.40
                                      (6.00)           (2.00)          (0.00)              (0.00)         (8.00)
3. Services                           29.80            0.00             0.70               11.10          41.60
                                     (29.80)           (0.00)          (0.70)             (11.10)        (41.60)
4. Miscellaneous: Land                 0.00            0.00             0.00               37.00          37.00
acquisition and
resettlement
                                      (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)              (0.00)         (0.00)
   Total                             366.10           102.00            0.70               59.70         528.50
                                     (215.80)         (56.50)          (0.70)             (11.10)       (284.10)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                           1
                                                   Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category              ICB             NCB                                N.B.F.       Total Cost



                                                    - 30 -

                                                                                      2
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                               345.38             22.88              0.00             15.12            383.38
                                         (187.22)           (11.44)            (0.00)            (0.00)          (198.66)
   2. Goods                                2.32               0.00              0.00             0.00              2.32
                                          (2.32)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (2.32)
   3. Services                             33.03              0.00              0.60             10.93            44.56
                                          (27.26)            (0.00)            (0.60)            (0.00)           (27.86)
   4. Miscellaneous: Land                  0.00               0.00              0.00             37.80            37.80
   acquisition and
   resettlement
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)              ()             (0.00)
      Total                               380.73             22.88              0.60             63.85            468.06
                                         (216.80)           (11.44)            (0.60)            (0.00)          (228.84)
   Footnotes:
    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component* (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
      Component*                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
A. Physical Investments
(A1) N-H-B Road               35.79        23.85                    30.58         20.39                 85.4      85.5
(A2) D-S Road                 87.60        58.40                    74.37         49.58                 84.9      84.9
(A3) FRA Program              47.10        31.40                    34.16         25.77                 72.5      82.1
(A4) Narrow Bridges                                     11.60                               15.12                         130.3
(A5) Road Maintenance         11.61        46.39                     9.20         41.68                 79.2      89.8
(A6) Road Safety              16.60                                  2.32         1.06                  14.0
B. ID & TA                    20.97                     11.10       22.38         16.54      2.19       106.7              19.7
C. Resettlement                            30.22                                  37.80                          125.1
D. 2000 Flood Restoration                                            4.21
Physical Contingencies        36.19        28.70                    34.01         18.08                 94.0      63.0
Price Contingencies           17.34        13.74                    17.61         16.48                 101.6    119.9
Grand Total                   273.20       232.70       22.70       228.84       221.91     17.31       83.8      95.4     76.3




                                                          - 31 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Summary

1.       The Borrower performed an ex-post economic evaluation of the RRMP-III project, using a
methodology and assumptions similar to that used at the time of appraisal. The evaluation focuses on the
civil works component of the project, which comprises 81 percent of the total project cost. The most recent
version of the Highway Development and Management Model (HDM-4) was used to simulate highway life
cycle and vehicle operating conditions and costs for multiple road design and maintenance alternatives.
The institutional component, while very critical to the overall success of the project, was not analyzed
because of the difficulty in quantifying benefits from institutional improvements and its impact on the
performance of the road sector. However, qualitative analysis of the project's institutional development
impact is given in section in the ICR.

2.       Table 1 below summarizes the results of the ex-post analysis for the different civil works
components and provides both the appraisal and ICR stage economic rate of returns (ERR) and Net
Present Values (NPVs) for comparison. The ERR at ICR stage ranges from 48 percent for the
Nalka-Hatikamrul new road construction to 128 percent for the periodic maintenance of national and
regional highways. All ERR values at ICR stage are higher than those estimated during appraisal. This is
because of higher than expected traffic volume for all project roads and lower than expected unit costs for
the roads under the new construction and rehabilitation components. The sensitivity analysis conducted also
shows that the project will remain economically viable under different risk scenarios that could reduce
potential economic benefits (to be updated later).

3.       The main quantified project benefits are savings by road users on vehicle operating costs and time
costs. It is expected that, given the deregulated and highly competitive structure of road transport industry
in Bangladesh, a large portion of the savings on commercial vehicles costs (which represent 69 percent of
motorized, three-wheel and above, traffic composition) will be passed on to producers and consumers of
goods transported by road and passenger traffic. The project will preserve the road network in an efficient
and sustainable manner, which would increase export competitiveness, accelerate export-oriented growth
and contribute to sustainable economic development.

             Table 1: Summary of Results of Economic Analysis (Appraisal and ICR Values)

                               Length (km)          NPV (US$ million)                   ERR (%)
                                                Appraisal         ICR           Appraisal         ICR
N-H Road New Construction          55.0           812.0          397.42           15.0           48.00
  D-S Road Rehabilitation          223.6          4,147.0       13,154.6          30.0            54.0
   Improvement of Feeder           385.7          2,002.0       2,205.9           27.0            49.0
             Roads
    Periodic Maintenance           627.7          4,218.0       13,159.9          75.0           128.0


Main Assumptions

4.       The    civil  works    component     include   (a)  construction   of  a   new    road   link,  the
Nalka-Hatikamrul-Bonpara road (55 km), (b) rehabilitation of Dhaka-Sylkhet Road (224 km), (c)
rehabilitation and improvement of high priority Feeder Road Type A (385.7 km), and (d) maintenance of
national and regional roads (628 km). The data for the evaluation was collected by the Road Maintenance
Management System (RMMS) in RHD. The RMMS database includes road section basic data, road
geometry, road condition, roughness data, and traffic data etc. that are required for the engineering



                                                    - 32 -

evaluation of pavement performance.

5.       Road Conditions and Traffic. The RMMS data has pre and post treatment conditions, as
measured by the International Roughness Index (IRI) and traffic survey, which are updated periodically.
The average pre-treatment IRI was 7.7 points, and ranges between 4.8 and 11.8, suggesting that the roads
were in a quite bad condition. After the treatment, the condition of the road was reduced to an average of
2.2 IRI, providing road users with smooth riding surface. The average daily motorized traffic is 3,068, and
ranges from 574 to 9,472. In addition, between 830 to 5,700 non-motorized users ply the project roads on a
daily basis. The traffic growth rate assumed is 8 percent, which is used commonly in RHD HDM-4
analysis, and was the same growth rate assumed at appraisal for the fist ten years of the evaluation period.

6.       Unit Costs. Costs were estimated in financial and economic terms (net of taxes), economic costs
being on average 90 percent of financial costs. The average unit road works cost estimates are given in
table 3, which shows a significant reduction in terms of the unit cost for most of the road works, except for
maintenance, which increased from the estimated value, partly due to a higher level of work than
anticipated.

                                       Table 2: Financial Unit Costs

                                Length         Cost (TK        Cost (US$      Cost per km     Cost Per Km
                                                million)        million)          (US$)           (US$)
                                                                                              (estimated at
                                                                                                appraisal)
      N-H Road New               55.0           3,122.0           47.3          860,062.8       1,400,000
       Construction
  D-S Road Rehabilitation       223.6           8,567.2          129.8          589,656.4        799,000
 Feeder Road Improvement        385.7           3,413.3           51.7          134,103.2        192,000
   Periodic Maintenance         627.7           2,628.5           39.8          103,268.3         70,300


7.       Road user costs, including Vehicle operating costs and travel time, have been taken from the latest
Road User Cost Report (which is included in the HDM-4 workspace used by RHD's HDM Circle). The
benefits have been quantified in terms of savings in Road users cost (RUC), which is a summation of
vehicle operation cost (VOC) and travel time.

Economic Evaluation

8.       Alternatives Considered. The economic evaluation considered two alternatives: with
treatment/project and without project scenario. The with-project scenario considers the actual treatment
done in the field and future maintenance that would be carried out during the analysis period. The
without-project scenario, or base case, is simply undertaking routine maintenance to keep the road
operational. The analysis was done for a twenty-year period. A discount rate of 12 percent has been
assumed in the economic analysis.

9.       Economic Benefits. Table 4 provides the breakdown of benefits from savings in VOC and
reduction of travel time. Additional road user benefits, which were not quantified, include reduced accident
rates and improved riding comfort. Ninety percent of the economic benefits accrue from the reduction in
VOC. This is because in Bangladesh the value time is considerably low, while the conditions of the roads
are bad, giving proportionally higher benefits to reduction in VOC. As expected, the VOC reductions were
most pronounced for periodic maintenance works.




                                                    - 33 -

                                Table 3: Summary of Economic Benefits

                                    Length               VOC Savings (million     Travel Time Savings
                                                                Taka)               (million Taka)
      N-H Road New                   55.0                      372.69                    50.28
        Construction
  D-S Road Rehabilitation            223.6                    17236.71                 1863.89
  Improvement of Feeder              385.7                    2959.94                   134.82
           Road
   Periodic Maintenance              627.7                    12016.37                  1668.7
           Total                        -                     32585.71                 3717.69


10.     Economic Returns and Net Present Value. ERR and NPV were calculated for each of the roads
evaluated and the results are provided in Table 5. The overall ERR is based on both road-wise ERRs and
weighted average ERR and is significantly higher than the minimum 12 percent required for economic
viability.

                                Table 4 Results of Economic Evaluation

  Contract No.          Start             End            Length (km)         NPV             EIRR

                                       N-H Road New Construction
      1,2,3,4        Hatikamrul          Bonpara             55             397.42           48%
                                         D-S Road Rehabilitation
        1A            Kanchpur          Narsingdi           32.6            4213.98          89%
        2C            Narsingdi      Bhairab Ferry          37.8            3344.69          78%
                                          Ghat
        1C          Ashuganj Ferry     Jagadishpur          43.1            3606.37          77%
                         Ghat
        2B           Jagadishpur         Mirpur            31.39            569.75           31%
        2A             Mirpur           Auskandi           33.36            383.027          18%
        1B            Auskandi      Sylhet Rail Over        45.3            1036.75          31%
                                         Bridge
                        Total/Weighted Average             223.55          13,154.57         54%
                                      FDA Improvement Component
        F1            Kotalipara       Kandi Road            12             40.638           18%
        F9             Ishwardi       Bagha Road           22.68            213.19           32%
        F10           Bhandaria      Kathalia Road          12.5            355.925          79%
        F13            Kushtia         Chuadanga            20.2             13.14           14%
        F14            Sariatpur    Goshairhat Road         19.1            188.03           44%
        F15            Kazipur       Sherpur Road            29             294.71           43%
        F16            Tebunia          Baghabari            20              85.44           25%
        F18            Tebunia          Baghabari            20             51.553           27%
        F20             Barisal         Babugonj            13.4            375.27           91%
        F21           Radhagonj     Sadullahpur Road       12.43            154.76           36%
        F22            Rangpur         Gaibandah             20             113.69           30%
        F23            Rangpur         Gaibandah            23.4            45.447           114%
        F24            Rangpur         Gaibandah            24.5             274.1           82%
                        Total/Weighted Average             249.21          2205.893          49%
                                    Periodic Maintenance Component
       PM1              Jessore          Magura              43             2045.57          84%



                                                   - 34 -

       PM2             Kumerkhali          Pakshi                 38               415.5             45%
       PM3               Rajbari        Kumerkhali                50              1534.6             151%
       PM4          a) Gobindhgonj        Rangpur                94.9            1674.53             192%
                      b) Palashbari      Gaibandha                                190.39             84%
       PM5             a) Rangpur         Saidpur              187.15             685.44             97%
                       b) Saidpur         Beldanga                                147.45             60%
                       c) Barabari      Lalmonirhat                               108.82             151%
                      d) Damoirhat       Joypurhat                                77.197             79%
                     e) Lalmonirhat       Patgram                                 198.57             165%
       PM6            a) Hatikamrul        Bogra               133.35             1637.5             169%
                       b) Naogaon         Patnitola                               944.88             170%
                     c) Kasinathpur       Dasuria                                2370.53             141%
                       d) Rajshahi        Noahatta                                198.89             198%
       PM7             b) Noapara        Bagherhat                54              257.56             89%
                        c) Jessore         Narail                                 672.48             174%
                          Total/Weighted Average                600.4           13159.907            128%

      Overall            Total/Weighted Average                1219.9           28917.787           69.8%


11.      Sensitivity Analysis.

The base economic viability indicators for the rehabilitation, maintenance and improvement components
were subject to the following sensitivity analyses: (i) If the traffic benefits were to decrease by 20% the
project's average EIRR would still be above the minimum requirement of 12% and (ii) With a 6% increase
in traffic growth the average EIRR would be 67.34% and the project would remain viable.

For the NH Road New Construction, if the traffic benefits decreased by 20% the EIRR would be 31.3%
and if annual traffic increased by 6% then the EIRR would be 26.66%. All interventions on the selected
corridors are economically viable even if benefits decrease and traffic volume increases.




                                                     - 35 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                    No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                        (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count             Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               08/18/1995

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               11/27/1997
               06/04/1998

 Supervision
               07/13/2000                   7   TM,2TE,TS,RS,PC,FMS                   S               S
               11/30/2000                   6   TM,2TE,RS,PC,DS                       S               S
               06/06/2001                   8   2TE,TS,2PC,RS,DS,FMS                  S               S
               12/06/2001                   9   TM,2TE,TS,PC,FMS,DS,RS,ES             S               S
               04/03/2002                   7   2TE,TS,RS,RA,FMS,DS                   U               S
               11/28/2002                   8   TM,TS,TE,RS,PC,FMS,DS,ES              S               S
               06/19/2003                   7   TM,TS,TE,HE,RS,2FMS                   S               S
               02/29/2004                   9   TM,TS,2TE,RS,FMS,2ES,PC               S               S
               11/12/2004                   9   TM,TS,TE,HE,RS,FMS,RA,ES,P            S               S
                                                C
               06/13/2005                   8   TM,2TS,PC,RS,FMS,ES,OO                S               S

 ICR
               10/27/2005                  9     TM,EC,2TE,RS,ES,FM,PC,               S               S
                                                 RA

DS=Disbursement Specialist;EC=Economist;ES=Environmental Specialist;FMS=Financial Management
Specialist;HE=Highway Engineer;HMS=Highway Maintenance Specialist; ITS=Institutional Development
or Training Specialist; OO=Operational Officer;PC=Procurenment Specialist;RA=Research
Analyst;RS=Resettlement Specialist;TE=Transport Engineer;TM=Task Manager;TS=Transport
Specialist.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                71.20                         138.90
  Appraisal/Negotiation                     52.30                         318.00
  Supervision                              339.10                         606.80
  ICR                                       22.16                          30.60
  Total                                    484.76                       1,094.30




                                                 - 36 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 1. Aide memoires, preparation missions for RRMP III, by World Bank, 1995-1998
 2. Aide memoires, supervision missions, by World Bank, 2000-2005
 3. Borrower's Project Implementation Completion Report, by RHD, June 2005
 4. Cement Concrete Pavement: for better and safer roads in Bangladesh, Concept Analysis Report, by
        Finnroads, December 2004
 5. Country Assistance Strategy for Bangladesh, by World Bank, March 6, 1998
 6. Country Assistance Strategy for Bangladesh, by World Bank, February 8, 2001
 7. Implementation Completion Report, The Second Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project, by
        World Bank, April 18, 2001
 8. Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, conformed copy, by World Bank, October 21, 1998
 9. Preliminery assessment on road maintenance in RHD, by World Bank, May 2005
10. Project Appraisal Document for RRMP III, by World Bank, June 26, 1998
11. Project Status Reports, No.1~18, by World Bank, 1999-2005
12. Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA), final report, by World Bank, June 2, 1998
13. Quarterly Progress Reports for civil works, equipments, and institutional development, by RHD and
        consultants, 2000-2005
14. Output to Purpose Review of the CIDC component, final report, by Atkins, January, 2005
15. Review of Environmental and Social Safeguards in Transport and Urban Sector Projects in
        Bangladesh, by World Bank, August 2005




                                                 - 39 -

- 40 -

