NALKA --HATIKAMRUL --BONPARA-
NEW ROAD
E-236 VOL. 4
DETAILED ENVIRONMENTAL STUDY
part 1
Executive Summary
DECEMBER 1996
DHV Consultants BV       Consulting Engineering Services (India) Pvt., Ltd.
The Netherlands          Development Design Consultants Ltd., Bangladesh
in association with      Desh Upodesh Ltd., Bangladesh,



DHV CES DDC DUL
The Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
NALKA - HATKAhIRUL - BONPARA NEW ROAD
Loan Agreement 2638 BD
DETAILED ENVIRONMENTAL STUDY
Part 1       EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Part 2        Socio-Economic Survey
Part 2a      Appendices Socio-Economic Survey
Part 3        Base Line Survey
Part 4        resettlement Issues
Part 5        Envirorunental Management and Monitoring Plan
Part 5a       Air Pollution Assessment
Part 5b       Noise Pollution Assessment
Subject              Detailed Environmental Study
File                K4008.01.001
Date                 December 1996
Status               Version 1
Our reference        NHB/LJW/DES.VR1



DHV CES DDC DUL
Acronyms and Abbreviations
BOQ           Bill of Quantities.
BWDB          Bangladesh Water Development Board
EP            Entitled Person
FAP           Flood Action Plan
GoB           Government of Bangladesh
HDV           Heavy Duty Vehicle
IGP           Income Generating Program
MIS           Management Informnation System
NGO           Non Governmental Organisation
NHBNR         Nalka - Hatikamrul - Bonpara New Road
PAP           Project Affected Person
RAP           Resettlement Action Plan
RHD           Roads and Highways Department
RoW           Right of Way
SSI           Social Science Institute
SWMIC         Surface Water Modelling Centre
ToR           Terms of Reference
NHB/UW/DESES.VRI
2



.o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



DHY CES DDC DUL
Table of Contents
1     Introduction                                                         4
1.1   Terms of Reference                                                   4
2     Socio Economic Survey                                                6
2.1    Methodology                                                         6
2.2   Survey analyses and results                                          6
2.3   PAP categorisation                                                   6
2.4    Compensation Cost Estimate                                          7
3     Environmental Baseline Survey                                        8
3.1    Natural physical environment                                        8
3.2    Natural biological environment                                      9
3.3    Ecological sensitive areas                                          9
3.4   Socio-Economic conditions                                            9
4     Resettlement Issues                                                  10
4.1    Alignment choice                                                    10
4.2    Resettlement and compensation policy                                10
4.3    Time schedule and organisation                                      10
4.4   Terms of Reference and selection criteria for NGO                    10
4.5   Short listing of NGOs                      -1
4.6    Co-ordination and logistics                                         11
5     Environmental Impact Assessment                                      12
5.1   Impact on natural fish production                                    12
5.2    Noise pollution                                                     13
5.3    Air Pollution                                                       13
5.4    Road safety                                                         13
5.5    Environmental benefits                                              13
6     Environmental Management                                             15
6.1    Design measures                             -                       15
6.2    Embanlanent construction                                             15
6.3    Road safety design                                                   15
6.4   Social tensions                                                      15
6.5    Management of water resources                                       16
6.6   Fisheries mitigation plan measures                                   16
6.7   Forestry schemes                                                     16
7     Environmental Monitoring                                              17
8     Summary and recommendations                                           17
Colophon                                                                    18
NHB/UW/DESES.VR1
3



I



DHV CES DDC DUL
1     INTRODUCTION
The Government of Bangladesh (GoB) has awarded the Detailed Engineering, Preparation of Bid
Documents, Environmental Impact Assessment and the Resettlement Plan for the Nalka - Hatikamrul -
Bonpara New Road to DHV Consultants BV, the Netherlands in issociation with CES (India) DDC
and Desh Upodesh Ltd.
The Nalka - Hatikamrul - Bonpara New Road is an important link between the Jamuna bridge (and as
such the eastern part of Bangladesh) and the Rashjahi Division. This road has major economic
importance and also ensures a direct link between the Eastern and the Northwest part of Bangladesh.
In the Pre-feasibility Study two route options, Route no. I and Route no. 3A were defined as being
economic feasible. Out of these Route option 1 was chosen as most viable. Under this contract this
route choice was optimised to reduce the number of affected homesteads and to avoid environmental
hazards.
The main distinction of the land in the project area is agricultural. Some small scale agro-related
industries are established in villages adjacent to the alignment. Seasonal fisheries are also an important
occupation in this region.
As every new road, also this road will have an impact, either positive or negative, on the existing
environment. To assess these impacts, several studies were conducted. As indicated in the title of the
project, the Detailed Environmental Study is an integral part of the design. This integrated approach
has been maintained through out the project and played a role in every independent item of the design.
This Study is made up out of the following parts:
Part I       Executive Summary
Part 2       Socio-Economic Sample Survey
Part 2a      Appendices Socio-Economic Survey
Part 3       Environmental Base Line Survey
Part 4       Resettlement Assessment comprising:
ToR forINGO(s)
Shortlist of NGO(s)
Time Schedule for NGO(s)
Part 5       Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan with
Environmental Impact Assessment
Part Sa      Air Pollution Assessment
Part 5b      Noise Pollution Assessment
The above mentioned reports besides this executive summary were already earlier submitted for
comments and further necessary action. The Environmental Impact Assessment is made in accordance
with the World Bank's Operational Directives 4.01 and 4.30 for Category A roads.
This executive summary is a brief listing of the positive and negative impacts and the measures to be
taken to mitigate the negative impacts of the construction of the Nalka - Haticamrul - Bonpara New
Road. The details are elaborated in the above mentioned reports.
1.1    Terms of Reference
The Environmental Survey is executed under the indications of the Terms of Reference of this
Contract. The Detailed Environmental Study is divided into two parts being the environrnental issues
and the resettlement issues.
NHBIUWIDESES.VRI
4



DHV CES DDC DUL
The assignment for the environmental issues is defined as follows:
(i)    Carry a survey to identify the distribution and remaining value of Chalan Beel wet lands within
the impact zone of the proposed road;
(ii)    Assess impacts of embankments on surface drainage patterns ahd natural fish production to
assist the engineering team in designing appropriate road cross-drainage;
(iii)   Carry out a base line survey to identify sensitive areas which should be protected from borrow
activities;
(iv)    Develop criteria and procedures for rehabilitating the sites after the earthwork is completed;
(v)    Assess air pollution and noise problems principally during operation phase, based mainly on a
survey for those of cxisting roads;
(vi)   Develop a comprehensive environmental management plan and an environmental monitoring
plan, based on the results of (1) to (v) above.
For the resettlement issues:
(i)    Review the RAP of the Jamuna bridge and the RRMP-II project financed by the IDA to obtain
knowledge about resettlement issues in Bangladesh;
(ii)    Assist the engineering team  in the selection of the optimum  route choice to minimise
homestead loss for the PAPs:
(iii)   Prepare time schedule in conjunction with the construction program  schedule for the
preparation of the RAP with target dates for appointments of NGO, conducting of a socio-
economic survey, land acquisition, etc.:
(iv)    Prepare TOR for the preparation of the RAP, make a shortlist of interested NGO/SSI for the
study, formulate selection criteria for their appointment.
NHB/IUWDESES VRI
5



DHV CES DDC DUL
2      SOCIO-ECONOMIC SURVEY
For the construction of the Nalka - Hatikamrul - Bonpara New road a total surface of 275 ha is
required. This surface represents the RoW  along the total distance of.the road. The first 4 km is
already property of the GoB. For the remaining 51 km another 2 km (existing rivers, roads, etc.) is.
also property of the GoB. Total 245 ha is to be acquired for the construction of the road. These 245 ha
represents approximately 3,000 affected plots and their affectation varies from 1 to 100 %. Each plot
has an average of 3 owners. This results in 15,000 EPs. According to the Socio-Economic Survey the
average family size in the project area is 5 persons. With this figure the total number of PAPs comes to
75,000 excluding squatters and utholis. During the fixation of the final alignment the number of
affected homesteads was reduced from 294 as indicated in the feasibility Study to 28. The 28
homesteads represent 128 households as several families live in one homestead.
The Socio-Economic Sample Survey was carried out in June/July 1996 for the affected homesteads and
in July/August 1996 the affected land users. For the household survey 28 households were interviewed
and for the affected plot survey 120 households.
2.1    Mtethodology
A questionnaire was designed for the survey of the households and the landusers. This questionnaire
was divided in 18 subsections dealing with the different aspects of the resettlement. A crew of
supervisors was selected and trained to execute the interviews. Once mobilised .in the field, each
interviewer got a local assistant assigned to use their specific knowledge of the area and its inhabitants.
The sampling of the landusers was done according to a sample frame comprising fully and partly
affected plots.
All interviews were processed in the computer on a spread sheet to allow for a flexible approach. This
spread sheet covered the whole questionnaire. For the purpose of cross-checking different other
sources of data were used.
2.2    Survey Analyses and Results
The survey analyses is composed of the following items:
-      Demographic data like household composition, education levels, religion, etc.:
-      Availability and access to public utilities
-      Land tenure and its arrangements
-      Agricultural activities
-      Other assets
-      Yearly income
-      Loans and credit
-      Response to resettlement
2.3    PAP Categorisation
To obtain an overview of the people to be resettled the PAPs were categorised into 3 groups and 9
categories varying from loss of homestead including structures and equipment, land and other sources
of income to the loss of (semi)- fixed employement and habitual rights. It appeared that already 42 %
of the landowners with an affected plot had already less than 33 decimals per household member. This
33 decimal is considered as the minimal land surface for a sustainable income.
NHBlUw/DESES.VRI
6



DHV CES DDC DUL
2.4    Compensation Cost Estimate
Based on previous projects with resettlement a cost estimate was made to calculate the compensation to
be paid. This cost estimates includes the homesteads, structures, land and crops, and employement.
The total cost was estimated at more than BDT 170 million. Not taken up in this estimate is the price-
increase of land which is going on at the moment. It was learnt that in Bonpara the price of land
adjacent to the alignment has already doubled in price.
NHB/UW/DESES.VR I
7



DHV CES DDC DUL
3      ENVIROINMENTAL BASELINE SURVEY
A detailed environrnental baseline survey of the project area concerning environmental issues was
undertaken in accordance with the World Bank's Operational Directive 4.01. As the environxnental
study also covers partly the resettlement issues, OD 4.30 was also used as guideline for this part of the
study. The baseline survey is designed to meet the requirements of 'the Environmental Impact
Assessment and the elaboration of the Environrnental Management Plan.
3.1    Natural Physical Environment
An inventory was made of the existing physical environment concerning topography, soil conditions,
climatic conditions and the hydrology.
The project area is situated in the NW region of Bangladesh and is located in three major river basins,
being the Kaludaha river basin, the Atrai river basin and the Mora Boral river basin. The alignment is
perpendicularly situated on the existing drainage pattern of the project area. If no adequate drainage
measures are taken, blockage of the existing drainage may occur. To assess the impact of the
embankment construction on the existing drainage, the SWMC carried out a Hydraulic Modelling
Study. To allow an almost undisturbed flow in the existing drainage pattern, 12 bridges and 80 culverts
are proposed.
In the project area two locations need special attention concerning hydrology.
a)     Kaludaha River Basin
This river basin suffers from severe inundation %ben the Jamuna River embankment fails and
water spills into the Karatoa (Bengali) River. Out of the three regulators along the Karatoa
River at the inlet of the Kaludaha river, two ofthem are in deplorable conditions and require
rehabilitation. A breakthrough of the Jamuna River embankment does not only damage the
embankmnent, but also causes severe damage--to homesteads and livestock in this part of the
project area. For this purpose the BWDB was contacted and in the mean time a meeting was
held between the Consultants and the representative of the BWDB to discuss the measures to
be taken.
b)     Green River Basin
The name 'Green River" is given to the area between the Nimaicharai Khal and the Atrai
River' in the different FAP studies. This is the main discharge zone of the Atrai floodplains and
around 2,000 m3/sec are to be disposed of during peak discharges. To obtain an appropriate
cross-drainage and to avoid erosion, three bridges with a span of 150 m each were designed in
this region.
Besides the above two river basins, a third main river basin is crossed by the alignment. This is the
Mora Boral River basin The Mora Boral river is no longer connected to its original source and
currently only drains off the regional surface water. To retain the water in this river, several sluices
and regulators- are built in the course of the river. However, during the dry season the river does not
accommodate any water.
The soil along the alignment mainly consists of clayey/silty soils with a low organic matter content. A
few old river beds are encountered within the vicinity of the alignment, but these are covered by a clay
layer. As a large part of the area is flooded every year, the soil is very fertile.
NHBIuW/DESES.VRI
8



DHV CES DDC DUL
3.Z    Natural Biological Envirorunent
The biota is built up of an uneven distribution of highly structured terrestrial habitats and uniform
mono-culture croplands. Two different types of habitats could be determined, being terrestrial andc
(semi) aquatic habitats. Despite the fact that the biological environment is totally man-made, a fair
degree of variety of plants are encountered in the highlands and along the road side. Tree plantations
of sissoo and mahogany are getting more and more popular. The wildlife has a limited extent, the use
of insecticides and the mono-culture has reduced the number of species of birds and mammals. The
key habitats along the route corridor were defined as follows:
-      homestead gardens
-      homesteads in floodplain
-      refuge forests
-      solitary trees
-      embanlrnents
-      beets
-      rivers and khals
-      fishponds
3.3    Ecological Sensitive Areas
The main ecological sensitive part is the Chalan Beel. IThe alignment just touches the southern part of
the remains of the Chalan Beel. Despite the reduced ecological function of the beel, it still offers a vast
variety of terrestrial, aquatic and marshy habitats. Almost the entire beel is now under cultivation. As
this cultivation is expanding to the last unused corners, it is foreseen that very soon the Chalan Beel
will no longer be a sensitive area. Other sensitive areas were encountered in homestead gardens and
graveyards.
3.4    Socio-Economic Conditions
Besides the analyses of the demographic features like7 religion and education, utilities and landuse, an
inventory of the income of the people in this region was made. The income is mainly based on
agriculture and agro-related activities. Fisheries, either open water or fish cultivation, are important.
Small scale rural industries mainly consist of rice mills, potteries, molasses and local transport
facilities.
NHBIUWIDESES.VRI
9



DHV CES DDC DUL
4     RESETTLEMENT ISSUES
4.1    Alignment Choice
The corridor of the road was defined in the feasibility study and the final alignment was to be defined-
in the Detailed Design Study. For this reason a comprehensive field survey was carried out to define
all environmental impacts of the construction of the road. The initial alignment was set out by the
surveyors and , if so required, adjusted in the field. This was done in close co-operation between .the
technical and the environmental team to obtain an optimum solution and to minimise homestead loss.
Bisecting of villages and the affectation of homesteads was avoided to the,extend as far as possible. in
this way the number of affected homesteads could be reduced from 294 numbers (as indicated in the
Feasibility Study) to 28 numbers as recorded during the topographic survey. This number will however
increase as construction along the alignment is in progress. During the establishment of the final
alignment, realignment was made in places where graveyards and mosques were affected. Permanent
school buildings were avoided.
4.2    Resettlement and Compensation Policy
The resettlement and rehabilitation policy is to be executed as per OD 4.30 guidelines of the World
Bank. The OD 4.30 indicates that the displaced and PAPs are fully resettled and rehabilitated
according to the following guidelines:
-     The full compensation of their loss is paid before the move;
-     The move is to be assisted and guided during the transition period
-      Assist the PAPs to improve their former living standard, income and production level
-      Pay special attention to the poorest and vulnerablegroups
Encourage community participation
-     Support the use of existing social and cultural insitutions for resettlement
-      Integrate the resettler socially and economically into the host community
-      Provide compensation against all properties and direct and indirect loss of income
-      Ensure compensation to squatters and utholis
The 1982/1989 Acquisition and Requisition of Immovable Property Ordinance of Bangladesh is to be
implemented for the compensation of direct losses.
4.3    Time Schedule and Organisation
A time schedule for the landacquisition and the resettlement in line with the anticipated construction
program is made up taking into account the notification periods under section 3 and section 6 of the
above mentioned Ordinance. This time schedule includes the selection and preliminary works of the
NGO(s) and the preparation and execution of the RAP. This time schedule is related to the tender
procedure and covers all required actions.
4.4    Terms of Reference and Selection Criteria for NGO
The Socio-Economic sample survey was carried out to define a profile of the PAPs and as such to
enable the NGO(s) conducting the PAPs inventory for the RAP. In view of the total number of PAPs
and the geographical lay out of the project, the Consultants proposed to divide the project into two
parts. One part located entirely in the Sirajgonj District and one part entirely located in the Natore
District. The border between these districts is more or less the Atrai river.
NHB/uW/DE-SES.VRI
10



DHV CES DDC DUL
The ToR for the NGO conducting the PAF' inventory and preparing the RAP was defined and
submitted. The tasks were defined as follows:
(i)    Define the extent of losses and the residual lancl
(ii)    Carry out a full survey of PAPs
(iii)   Develop a RAP with compensation packages
(iv)   Develop IGPs and training programs
(v)    Develop a Management Information System for resettlement activities.
As mentioned above, an estimated 75,000 people will be directly affected by the project. To wihat
extend they are affected is to be determined by the surveys of the NGOs. These surveys also have to
determine the number of PAPs to be resettled.
4.5    Shortlisting of NGOs
The consultants invited several NGOs to be shortlisted for the preparation of the RAP. Only four
NGOs responded positive. These four are NGOs, CCDB, RDM, World Concern and SHARB who
were shortlisted for submission of their proposal for final! selection.
4.6    Co-ordination and Logistics
Taken into consideration the tight time schedule, the elongated shape and the poor accessibility of the
project the consultants proposed to introduce a Project Co-ordinating Consultant. As two NGOs are to
be employed to carry out the preparation and execution of the RAP, a co-ordination between the two
NGOs to obtain a socio-economic survey and a RAP fixed on the same basic levels is required. In the
consultants opinion it is vital that the resettlement is integrated in the total package of the construction
of the road. This approach can reduce the tirne and cost of the total project.
NHB/UW/DESES.VRI
11



DHV CES DDC DUL
5   ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
A comprehensive inventory of the existing environmental impacts in the project area was made. The
existing impacts were differentiated as follows:             -
-      Natural impacts like flooding, storms, etc.;
-     Man made impacts;
-     Impacts due to developments in the region.
The expected impacts due to the construction of the road were separated from impacts during
construction and impacts after construction. The different areas of impact were defined into the
following categories:
-     Physical impacts like disruption of drainage systems and interruption of local transport
systems;
-      Ecological impacts on habitats, wildlife, groundwater and the influence of waste disposal;
-      Economic impacts.
All the potential positive and negative impacts were listed and elaborated The fields of potential
impacts directly resulting from the road construction were determined as follows:
-     Surface water resources
-      Groundwater resources
-     .Soil conditions
-      Agriculture
-     -Wild life and fisheries
-      Public health
Other regional impacts due to the construction of the oad following the regional development are
anticipated as well:
-      Undesired development beyond control (illegal encroachment and use of embankmnent);
-      Explosive population growth and subsequent pressure on local resources;
-      Deforestation due to increased fire wood demand;
-      Change in use of land patterns
-      Socio-cultural conflicts
-      Depletion of biological resources, etc.
5.1   Impact on Natural Fish Production
As indicated in the ToR, special attention is to be paid to the loss in natural fish production. This issue
is extensively elaborated in the Environmental Impact Assessment.
The loss of natural fish production due to the construction of the road embankment is estimated in
relation to the area yearly inundated in the monsoon. The loss is calculated at a total of 12.5 ton per
year. This loss is compensated through the creation of by permanent waterbodies of the sand
borrowpits. However, other' factors play a significant role here. Due to the construction of the
embankment with its limited drainage surface of culverts and bridges. Migration routes are now
channelled and the culverts and bridges provide an unique opportunity to catch all the migrating fish.
The capture of fishes will undoubtedly influence the long term sustainibility of the fish stocks
NHB/1JwIDEsr S.VR1
12



DHV CES DDC DUL
5.2    Noise Pollution
The noise pollution level in the project area will certainly increase. .An assessment of the noise
pollution was made based on the available data using several standards. From this assessment it
appears that the level of noise pollution will remain within an acceptable level outside the RoW of the
road. Details of the noise pollution can be found in the report of the same name..
5.3    Air Pollution
The air pollution level will also increase due to the construction of the Nalka- Hatikamrul - Bonpara
New Road. It is difficult to estimate the level of air pollution in the future. It is expected that the output
of air polluting agents from vehicles will be reduced in the future when different measures to reduce
air pollution will be enforced. With the current standard of emissions of mainly HDVs, the air
pollution remains within acceptable levels according to ]3ritish standards. It is however assumed that
the pollution levels will gradually lower in the future clespite the traffic growth. Details of the air
pollution can be found in the report of the same name.
5.4    Road Safety
One of the reasons to design a secondary lane for slow traffic was to increase road safety. A separation
of slow and fast moving traffic will considerably reduce accidents.
It is anticipated that especially the first months after the opening of the road accidents will occur.
People in the project area are not familiar with high speed traffic. To reduce speed in build up areas,
curves were designed at the entrance of villages and as such to reduce accidents. Junctions are
designed in such a way that only perpendicular crossing f the mainroad is possible. In two locations,
Hatikamrul junction and Bonpara junction, roundabouts are designed for a smooth flow of traffic.
5      Environmental Benefits
Not only negative impacts result from the construction of the Nalka - Hatikamrul - Bonpara New
Road. Besides, the positive economical effects resulting from the construction of the Jaznuna bridge
and consequently the NHBNR, numerous other non-economical positive irnpacts can be foreseen.
Environmnental benefits:
It is anticipated that the locally generated surplus of water will be significantly reduced, by creating
ponds and lakes from borrow pits, wintering habitats are considerably increased. As embankment
plantation is foreseen, afforestation will increase.
Agricultural benefits:
Due to the construction of the embankment local drainage and flood protection will improve, together
with the irrigation schemes.
Life quality and public health benefits:
The rescue facilities in the project area will considerably improve, evacuation during severe flooding
will be facilitated. It is also anticipated that in general the water quality will improve due to newly
installed tubewells.
NHH81JW/DESES.VRI



DHY CES DDC DUL
Social benefits:
During construction, temporary employment facilities will be created. With an improved infrastructure
also the transport requirements will grow and as such employement. As the general employment rate
will grow, also the spin-off like small scale industries will grow.
NHBIUWIDESES.VRI
14



DHV CES DDC DUL
6   EENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENr
6.1    Design Measures
From the start of the project design, environmental considerations related to the design were duly
incorporated. This approach started with the choice of the final alignment and is maintained
throughout the project preparation.
6.2    Embanknent Construction
After studying the embankment height and dimensions it appeared that approximately 5 million rn3 of
fill material will be required. This quantity represents an average fill of 100 m3 per ml of road. If the
conventional way of side borrow was maintained an additional 500 ha was required for borrow
material only. To reduce the quantity of required land, the Consultants searched for another solution
for borrow material. Initially it was considered to dredge material from the different rivers adjacent to
and crossing the alignment and creating fill borrowpits of considerable depth to reduce the surface area
of affected land. During the soil investigations it appearedl that this was only partly feasible. The river
banks are elevated due to sedirnentation during flooding and these highlands are densely populated.
The overburden on the embankments is considerable. Deepening of the river beds by dredging is only
partly possible as the material encountered in the riverbeds is very fine sand and the natural slope is
very flat. If dredging of the river beds is executed, the risks of embankment slides during the first rains
is not unimaginable. Therefore, optional sand borrowpits were located on different locations along the
centreline. These locations are mainly old river beds. These defined borrowpits are all situated in non-
sensitive areas. The depth of these borrowpits varies from 3 to 7 m. After rehabilitation, these lakes
create a good opportunity to improve the water availability during the dry season as a large part of the
project area is affected by water shortage during the dry season.
To protect the sand core of the embankment cladding material is to be laid on the sand core. The
miinimum thickness of this cladding material is 0.5 m. In places where the embankment will be
regularly inundated, a 0.75 m cladding layer is foreseer;, For the cladding material different sources
are available. The first source is the material obtained frcm the clearing of the topsoil. The second
source is the overburden from  the different sand borrowpits. As a third source different clay
borrowpiEs are identified along the alignment at an interval of approx. 3 km. These clay borrowpits can
be transferred through rehabilitation into fishing ponds and can serve as alternative income source for
PAPs.
6.3    Road Safety Design
Various measures to reduce the accident risks during operation are worked in the different parts of the
design and elaborated in the EMAP. Also, measures Ito be taken during construction are worked out.
6.4    Social Tensions
With the importation of a few hundred man labour force, it is anticipated that tension will arise during
the construction period between the employees of the contractors and the local population. Regular
meetings between contractors, NGOs, consultants and representatives of the villagers should ease these
tensions.
NHBIUW/DESE5.VR I
15



DHV CES DDC DUL
6.5    Mlanagement of WVater Resources
The construction of the embankment will create a change in the existing drainage and irrigation
pattern. This will require during construction a review of the existing irrigation schemes and additional
tubewells may be required. A provisiona! sum for deep and shallow tube wells to re-establish the
disrupted irrigation schemes is taken up in the BoQ. Additional sedimentation may occur as a result of
reduced water velocity and however a large number of drainage structures are foreseen, locally
waterlogged areas may be created.
In the hydraulic design adequate bridge and culvert openings are taken up to reduce water velocity to
an acceptable level and to minimise erosion. Three locations remain with a water velocity of more than
1.0 m/sec. The elevated water velocity only occurs during peak discharges calculated at once in the 25
years under the most unfavourable circumstances. These unfavourable circumstances happen during
heavy rains at the start or at the end of the monsoon. The locations are situated at the following places:
1)    Harinchara bridge            1.48 n/sec.          Ch. 16+000
2)     Khalkula bridge             1.14 m/sec           Ch. 18+650
3)     Nimaicharai bridge          1.27 n/sec           Ch. 17+170
The Harinchara bridge is situated in a lowland area and the watervelocity is not likely to damage
surrounding agricultural areas. The water velocity at the Khalkula and Nimaicharai bridge are still
within an acceptable level. For the protection of the embanlanent against erosion and scour adequate
slope protection is taken up in the design. In places with high water velocity, the slope protection
consist of concrete block work. In places where the water velocity is within acceptable limits a geomat
with selected deep-rooting grasses is applied. In other places where water velocity is not an issue,
grassing and tree plantation is reconmnended.
During construction special care is to be taken in respectif dumping of waste material and the existing
ground water level. Oil and other waste products can easily pollute surface and ground water. As the
inhabitants of the project area rely completely on grou'nd water for domestic purposes, pollution of
ground water is to be avoided.
6.6    Fisheries Mitigation Plan Measures
The alteration of fish mnigration routes and the change in ecology due to the construction of the
NHBNR, adequate measures for fish stock conservation are to be taken. As it is envisaged that the
natural fish production will at least not improve, culture based fishery schemes and aquaculture
development are to be encouraged to create additional income generating facilities.
6.7    Forestry Schemes
The noise and air pollution levels will rise considerably. These impacts can be reduced partly by a
plantation scheme for the slopes of the embanlcment. It is also to be avoided that houses and settlements
are erected within the RoW of the road. It is therefore advised to lease out the planted embanlanents to
PAPs. The advantages are multiple. By leasing out the embankments, the land loss of PAPs can partly
be compensated. If there is someone responsible for the roadside plantation, illegal cutting of trees will
be considerably reduced. If, as part of the lease, the maintenance of the slopes is included, it will save
the GoB the funds for this maintenance. Also illegal settlement on the slopes will be reduced.
Species were selected and a plantation and harvesting scheme was worked out for the afforestation
scheme.
NHB/UW/DESES.VRI
I'



DHV CES DDC DUL
7   ENVIRONMIENTAL MONITORING
For the implementation of the environmental management plan an organisational frame work was set
up with the description of the different tasks of the people and bodies involved in the construction of
the project. The elements to be monitored and the activities were listed to.enable adequate monitoring.
8    SUMlMIARY AND RECOMINMENDATIONS
The design of the road has been made in accordance with the findings of the Hydraulic Modelling and
the Detailed Environmental Study. All physical negative impacts arising out of the road construction
have been studied and where possible converted to additional values of the road construction.
However, these additional values require additional investment. For example, a road embankment
plantation scheme to mitigate the negative impact of traffic requires additional funds.
On different locations in Bangladesh the remains of brickyards, borrowpits and sites are left in an
unusable condition. The ToR clearly indicates that these conditions are to be avoided. The
rehabilitation of borrowpits and sites will be prescribed in the Technical Specifications, but if the
borrowpits are not acquired by the GoB, the influence on rehabilitation is only minimal. The
conversion of clay borrow pits into fishponds can only be undertaken adequately if the designated areas
are Governnent property. In the opinion of the Consultants it is financially cheaper to acquire the land
for the borrowpits and make the soil material avatilable for the Contractor(s). The social acceptance to
expropriate valuable land for borrowpits, transferring it into a good income generating fishponds and
leasing it out to someone else is another issue. However, if the negative impact on the environment of
construction sites is to be avoided, additional landacquisition for borrowpits and sites is the only
solution.
NHB/UW/DESES.VRI
17



DHV CES DDC DUL
COLOPHON
Client                       The Govermnent of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
Roads and Highways Department
File:                        K4008.01.001
Length of report             18 pages
Author                       L.J. Wetsteijn
Team Leader                  L.J. Wetsteijn
Project manager              R. Vaandrager
Date                         December 1996
Approved:                                                        L.J. Wetsteijn
NHB/UIW/DESES.VRI



