Report No. PIC4349
Project Name                   Bangladesh-Third Road Rehabilitation...
and Maintenance Project (RRMP-III)
Region                         South Asia
Sector                         Transportation
Project ID                     BDPA37294
Borrower                       Government of Bangladesh (GOB)
Implementing Agency            Roads and Highways Department (RHD)
Sarak Bhavan, Ramna
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Contact: Chief Engineer
Telephone: 880-2-865168
Telex: 632230 RHD BJ
Date PID Prepared              September, 1996
Projected Appraisal Date       October, 1997
Projected Board Date           June, 1998
Project Objectives
1.   The projects overall objective is to reduce the total cost of road
transport on Bangladesh's most travelled roads. These objectives would
be achieved by: (i) removing critical bottlenecks in the overall
transport system by constructing some new link roads (Nalka-Bonpara) and
improvements in other key link roads (Dhaka-Sylhet), and construction of
small bridges which are essential for efficiency in the transport of
industrial, agricultural, export and import goods; (ii) increasing the
institutional capacity of RHD in project selection and implementation of
Feeder Roads "A" (FRAs) and bring discipline to the FRA improvement
program; (iii) improving the planning and monitoring capability of RHD
through the introduction of GIS; (v) reducing road accidents; and (vi)
reducing the negative impact of road construction by encouraging the use
of environment friendly construction materials and techniques.
Project Description
2.   A Road Master Plan (RMP) prepared in 1991 identified about 9300 km
of FRAs of which only about one third are improved. RHD has proposed
improvement of an additional 3000 km of the remaining FRAs. Funds have
been provided under IDA's Credit 2638-BD for preparation of feasibility
studies for FRA improvement. GOB has received proposals from
consultants to carry out the feasibility studies and the final designs
and tender documents for the FRA improvement program to be carried out
in the first year of the project. The other part of the project will
consist of construction of the Nalka-Bonpara road, rehabilitation and
improvement of the Dhaka-Sylhet road, and construction of several small
but important bridges. Final designs and tender documents for the
Nalka-Bonpara road are under preparation. Final designs for the
remaining items will be prepared as part of the project. In addition,



the project will include a significant component to enhance traffic
safety in Bangladesh and a technical assistance component to continue
the institutional strengthening measures for RHD started under previous
donor supported projects.
Project Implementation
3.   The project will be implemented over a 4 to 5 year period starting
in FY 1998. RHD will implement the project, with its Chief Engineer
having overall responsibility. The implementation arrangements will be
similar to those under the two ongoing Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Projects, which have been satisfactory. The institutional
development and road safety programs will assist RHD as well as the
Bangladesh Road Transport Authority (BRTA) and will build upon the
technical assistance being provided to these institutions under existing
projects financed by various donors (IDA, ADB, ODA, UNDP, EEC). The
details of the project implementation arrangements and the institutional
support programs will be finalized during further project preparation.
Cost and Financing
4.   The cost and financing plan of the project are not known.    Based on
past experience, however, the cost of the total FRA Improvement Program
is estimated to be between US$500 - 600 million. It is envisaged that
the overall FRA improvement program will be implemented in phases, each
phase spanning a four to five year period and each phase of the program
will be divided into regional packages to facilitate mobilization of
financing from different sources. Other donors are interested in
supporting the FRA improvement program and could finance one of these
packages in a particular region. The proposed IDA project will cover
one of these first phase packages with a total cost of about US$100 -
120 million. The cost of the Nalka-Bonpara road is estimated at US$50
million and that of the Dhaka-Sylhet road at US$100 million. The cost
of construction of small bridges, the road safety program, the
institutional improvement in RHD and technical assistance for project
implementation is estimated at US$30 million. The total cost of the
proposed project could be around $300 million. The IDA credit amount
would be $200 million.
Environmental Aspects
5.   Environmental Assessment Category B.   The Project envisages new
construction in the Nalka-Bonpara road only. A detailed assessment of
the resettlement requirements and environmental impact is being carried
out for this component. The remaining components consist of only
improvements of roads which may need only a little widening and as such
no adverse environmental effects or resettlement are expected. On the
other hand, construction of small bridges and culverts under the project
will remove water logging problems and roadside tree plantation will
improve the ecological balance. However, during project preparation all
possible environmental impact and resettlement requirements would be
investigated and all outstanding issues resolved.
Contact Point        Arun Banerjee
- 2-



The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: 880-2-861056
Fax No: 880-2-863220
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending October 4, 1996.
- 3 -



