Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N 043 BD
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement
(Third Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the interim 
trust fund established with funds contributed by certain members of 
International Development Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
of the Board of Governors of International Development Association
Dated October 21, 1998
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N 043 BD
INTERIM FUND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 21, 1998, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) as administrator 
(the Administrator) of the interim trust fund (Interim Fund) established with funds 
contributed by certain members of the Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
(the Interim Fund Resolution) of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on 
June 26, 1996.
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Administrator to assist in the financing of the Project through the provision of 
resources from the Interim Fund, and the Administrator has determined that such 
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution; 
and 
(C)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland (United Kingdom), acting through the Department for International 
Development (DfID) a grant (the DfID Grant) in an amount of £14,000,000 to assist in 
financing Part A (4) and B (1) of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in 
an agreement (the DfID Agreement) to be entered between the Borrower and the United 
Kingdom; and WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Interim Fund Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through \0bDecember 2, 
1997, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The term "Association", wherever used in the General Conditions means the 
International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund 
referred to in the Preamble to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement; 
(b)
The terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and "Credit Account", 
wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read "Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement", "Interim Fund Credit" and "Interim Fund Credit Account", 
respectively; 
(c)
In Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
"Association" shall also mean the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"Bangladesh Bank" means the Central Bank of Bangladesh established under 
Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972 (P.O. No. 127 of 1972) as amended to the date of this 
Agreement; 
(b)
"BRTA" means the Bangladesh Road Transport Authority of the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Communications, established under Section 24 of the Borrower’s Motor 
Vehicle Ordinance, 1983 (Ord. IV of 1983); 
(c)
"Environmental Management Plan" means the Executive Summaries of the 
Consolidated Environmental Impact Assessment Plans for the Project dated \0bMarch 9, 
1998; 
(d)
"FY" means the fiscal year of the Borrower, commencing on July 1 and 
ending on June 30 of the following calendar year;  
(e)
"OPD" means the Office of the Project Director established within RHD; 
(f)
"Planning Commission" means the Physical Infrastructure and Programming 
Divisions of the Planning Commission of the Borrower;
(g)
"Resettlement Plan" means the Resettlement Action Plan dated \0bApril 20, 
1998 agreed upon between the Borrower and the Administrator as amended from time to 
time as agreed between the Borrower and the Administrator; 
(h)
"RHD" means the Roads and Highways Department of the Ministry of 
Communications of the Borrower; 
(i)
"RRD" means the Roads and Railways Division of the Ministry of 
Communications of the Borrower; and 
(j)
"Special Account" means the Account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II 
The Interim Fund Credit 
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to two hundred three million four hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 203,400,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Interim Fund Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
Page  3
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Interim Fund Credit Account or canceled; 
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and 
at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semi-annual 
installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 2008 and 
ending April 15, 2038. Each installment to and including the installment payable on 
April 15, 2018 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Administrator may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Administrator of the development of the Borrower’s economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring 
the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
as of the first semi-annual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling 
six months or more after the date on which the Administrator notifies the Borrower 
that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that 
there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Administrator may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Administrator on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Administrator, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification. 
Page  4
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph 
(b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Administrator, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. Section 3.04. For the purpose of carrying out Part A of the 
Project, the Borrower shall implement, or cause to be implemented, the Resettlement 
Plan and the Environmental Management Plan in accordance with their respective 
timetables.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Interim 
Page  5
Fund Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
and the Administrator 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that subject to paragraph (b) of this 
Section, the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the DfID Grant made to 
the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the DfID Grant Agreement.
(b)
Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Administrator that: 
(i)
such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
the DfID Grant Agreement; and 
(ii)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from 
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under the DfID Grant Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
5.01 (a) of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of Section 5.01 (b).
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Designation of Administrator
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the DfID Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement, have been fulfilled; and 
(b)
a Highway Engineering and Project Management Specialist, a 
Resettlement/Environmental Adviser, a Financial Management Adviser and two Design and 
Supervision Consultants have been appointed for purposes of the Project pursuant to 
the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Administrator, namely, that all necessary 
Page  6
governmental action required for implementing or causing to be implemented the 
Resettlement Plan has been taken.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.04.  In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Secretary, or the Additional Secretary, or any Joint 
Secretary/Joint Chief, Deputy Secretary/Deputy Chief, Senior Assistant Secretary or 
Assistant Secretary/Assistant Chief of the Economic Relations Division of the Ministry 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:
Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD
642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka
       672796 SETU BJ
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Dhaka, Bangladesh, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ Mashiur Rahman  
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established
with funds contributed by certain members of 
International Development Association pursuant
to Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors
of International Development Association
Page  7
By /s/ Pierre Landell-Mills 
Country Director, 
Bangladesh
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Interim Fund 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category:
   Amount of the
Interim Fund Credit 
  % of
Allocated (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
  SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
 (1)
Civil works: 
(a)  Road and narrow           143,400,000
60%
       bridges construction,  
       rehabilitation and  
       widening 
(b)  Periodic road main-   
   9,170,000
20%
tenance works
(2)
Equipment and materials         5,440,000 
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(3)
Consultants’ services
       19,750,000
100%
(4)
Training
          150,000
100%
(5)
Unallocated                    25,490,000
       TOTAL                
      203,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR 14,900,000, may be made in respect of Categories 1(a) and (3) on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after April 1, 1998. 
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures (a) for civil 
works under contracts costing less than $250,000 equivalent each, (b) for equipment 
and materials under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, (c) for 
consultants’ services under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each in 
the case of firms, and under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each in 
the case of individuals, and (d) for all training, all under such terms and conditions 
Page  8
as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to reduce the total cost of road transport on 
Bangladesh’s most traveled roads by improvements to the Borrower’s road network 
through effective planning, design and construction of road investments and effective 
programming and implementation of road maintenance.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to  time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
1.
Construction of about 55 km of Nalka-Hatikamrul-Bonpara Road. 
2.
Rehabilitation and widening of about 250 km of Dhaka-Sylhet Road. 
3.
Rehabilitation of about 500 km of type A feeder roads in the Northwest and 
Southwest Regions of the Borrower.   
4.
Rehabilitation of narrow bridges (about 1000 meters) and existing culverts on 
national and regional roads in the Northwest and Southwest regions and widening of the 
approach roads thereto in the Northwest and Southwest Regions of the Borrower. 
5.
Carrying out of periodic maintenance of about 1000 km of national and regional 
roads in the Northwest and Southwest Regions of the Borrower. 
6.
Carrying out of remedial measures for improving traffic safety. 
7.
Strengthening of road safety on national and regional highways, through the 
acquisition of axle load control equipment, reflectorized traffic signs and 
thermoplastic road markings and police training equipment.
Part B: 
1.
Strengthening of RHD’s capacity for improved maintenance and road safety; 
improving RHD’s financial management systems; strengthening the National Traffic 
Police Training Center; and carrying out a follow up to the studies for 
rationalization of RHD’s ferry and construction equipment related activities. 
2.
Carrying out of policy support studies and training, and preparation of future 
road projects.
Part C:
Carrying out of a program of land acquisition and resettlement affecting about 
29,000 households who are living, cultivating or working in the affected area, and 
relocation of any utilities in such areas.
*          *          * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
Page  9
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Prequalification 
Bidders for civil works contracts under Parts A.1, A.2,  A.3, A.4 and A.5 of the 
Project shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 
2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(c)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
National Competitive Bidding 
Civil works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to 
cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for civil works and goods estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
Page  10
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services for project design and supervision under 
Part A.4 of the Project and for institutional strengthening and project preparation 
under Part B of the Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Single Source Selection
Services for institutional strengthening and project preparation under Part B of 
the Project, which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Administrator’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Administrator for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall 
be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Administrator, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
Page  11
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator, on or about August 31, 2000, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Administrator, by October 31, 2000, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Administrator’s views on 
the matter. 
2.
The Borrower shall promptly establish, operate and maintain a Project Steering 
Committee, with composition, powers and functions satisfactory to the Administrator. 
3.
The Borrower shall maintain and operate the OPD until completion of the Project. 
4.
The Borrower shall, within one month after the end of each quarter, prepare and 
furnish to the Administrator quarterly reports on implementation, performance 
indicators and proposed action plans for the Project, such reports to be reviewed 
jointly by the Steering Committee and the Administrator.
5.
The Borrower shall, by March 31 of each year until completion of the Project:
(a)
jointly review with the Administrator its expenditure on maintenance of 
RHD roads in the preceding year and its proposed budget requirements for the following 
year; 
(b)
report on the proportions of the national and regional road network 
classified as being in good, fair and poor condition, and on the proposed 
rehabilitation and construction funds required for the following year; and
(c)
make annual budgetary allocations in consultation with the 
Administrator for the purposes of paragraphs (a) and (b) above.
6.
The Borrower shall:  
(a) 
develop in the OPD a computerized Project Financial Management System by 
December 31, 1998, satisfactory to the Administrator; and
(b)
thereafter promptly implement such system in RHD during the execution of 
the Project. 
7.
The Borrower shall timely implement the reorganization plan for RHD agreed with 
the Administrator.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 through 4 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$25,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, 
that unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall 
be limited to an amount equivalent to $15,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 
Page  12
44,600,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Administrator from the Interim Fund Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account of 
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
Page  13
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Interim Fund Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
