Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18746
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 2249-CE)
December 23, 1998
Energy Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       -         Rupee (SLR)
Appraisal Year 1990   - US$1.00 = SLR 40.25
Intervening Year 1994 - US$1.00 = SLR 50.80
Completion Year 1998 - US$1.00 = SLR 66.03
GOSL Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB       -  Asian Development Bank
AT&T      -  American Telephone and Telegraph Co.
CATB      -  Cabinet Appointed Tender Board
ERR       -  Economic Rate of Return
FRR       -  Financial Rate of Return
GOSL      -  Government of Sri Lanka
ICR       -  Implementation Completion Report
IDA       -  International Development Association
IRR       -  Internal Rate of Return
ITU       -  International Telecommunication Union
MOPT    -  Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications
OECF      -  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
PCR       -  Project Completion Report
PPF       -  Project Preparation Facility
RSU       -  Remote Subscriber Unit
SAR       -  Staff Appraisal Report
SASEG    -  South Asia Region Energy Sector Unit
SLT       -  Sri Lanka Telecom (a state corporation incorporated in 1990)
SLTA      -  Sri Lanka Telecommunications Authority (regulator with departmental status)
SLTD      -  Sri Lanka Telecommunications Department
SLTL      -  Sri Lanka Telecom Ltd. (incorporated in 1996 under the Companies Act)
SLTS      -  Sri Lanka Telecom (Services) Ltd. (incorporated in 1993 under the Companies Act to
implement the "150K" project)
STD       -  Subscriber Trunk Dialing
TEC       -  Technical Evaluation Committee
TRC       -  Telecommunications Regulatory Commission (regulator with commission status as from
1996)
UNDP    -  United Nations Development Programme
WLL       -  Wireless Local Loop
Vice President             Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director           Roberto Bentjerodt
Sector Manager             Alastair McKechnie
Team Leader                Ritin Singh



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Sri Lanka
Second Telecommunications Project
(Credit 2249-CE)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY .........................................................................................................................
Introduction ..................i
Project Objectives ...................................                                                    i
Implemenitation Experience and Results ...................................                               ii
Summary of Findings ....................................                                                 I
PART I - IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ....................................I
A. Evaluation of Objectives ......................................
B. Achievement of Objectives ....................................I
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ....................................'
D. Project Sustainability .....................................3
E. Bank Performance ..................................3
F. Cofinaiciers Performialce ...................................6
G. Borrower Performiaice ...................................6
H. Assessmenit of Outcome ...................................8
1. Fu ture  Operation .........................................8
J. Key Lessons Leamned ...................................8
K. Evaluation of Program Objective Categoriess ...................................9
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: SuLimiiary of Assessmenits ....................................I I
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Ciredits ..............               ..                                     12
Table 3: Project Timetable ................................... 13
Table 4:      Loan/Credit Disbursemenits: CuLImulative Estimated and Actual                .14
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation                             .1 5
Table 6:      Key Indicators for Project Operation1 66
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project .17
Table 8A: Project Costs .18
Table 8B: Project Financing .19
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits .20
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenanlts .22
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statemenlts ............................................25
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .25
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .26
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be ulsed by recipients only in the|
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not. otherwise be disclosed without
World Banlc authorization.



APPENDICES
A.    Mission's Aide-Memoire (with Operation Plan)                                      27
B.    Borrower's Evaluation                                                             51
C.    Cofinanciers' Evaluation                                                          60
D.    Miscellaneous Appendices:
D. I   Greater Colombo Telephone Exchanges                                       61
D.2   Telephone Exchanges in the Regions                                         62
D.3   Telephone Supply and Demand: 1990-2000                                     64
D.4   Telephone Service Deniand and Supply by Exchang;,e Areas: 1990-1997        65
D.5   Telephone Exchange Expansion - "150K" Project                              66
D.6   Chronology of Sri Lanka Telecomimluniicationis Sector Reforill             67
D.7   SLTL's 1996-97 Financial Statemenits                                       68



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Sri Lanka
Second Telecommunications Project
(Credit 2249-CE)
PREFACE
This is the Implenmentation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second T'elecommuinicationis Project in Sri
Lanka, for which Credit 2249-CE in the amount of SDR 39,7 millioni equivalenit was approved on July 15,
1991 and made effective on December 24, 1991.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1998, after a two-year extension of the original closing date. The final
disbursement took place on December 4, 1998 and a balance of US$ 7.3 millionl was canceled.
Cofinancing for the project was provided by ADB, OECF, and AT&T.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Ritin Singh, team leader, Mihkel Sergo. consultant (Fiianicial Analyst),
and David Delgado, consultant (Telecommunicationis Enginieer), of the Energy Sector -Unit, Soutil Asia
Regional Office, and reviewed by Mr. Alastair McKechiiie, Manager, Energy Sector Unit (SASEG).
Comments from the Borrower and Beneficiary have been included in Appendix B.
Preparation of this ICR started during the Bank's final supervisioni/completion ImiissioIn in May/June 1998.
It is based on material in the project file and informiationi provided by the Borrower and Beneficiary. The
Borrower also contributed to this ICR by preparing his own evaluationi of the project's execution and
providing statistical information. The draft ICR was sent to the cofinanciers and comillenits were invited
but none were received.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Sri Lanka
Second Telecommunications Project
(Credit 2249-CE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Bank's involvemenit with Sri Lanka's telecommulnicatioins sector started in 1979 with the
preparation of the First Teleconin,unications Project (Credit 1020-CE), whicih was approved by the Board
in May 1980 and completed in 1987. The Project Completion Report (PCR), dated JuLie 29, 1988 rated
this project as highly successful and listed the following main accomplishiliielits:
e   improving institutional efficiency by separation of the postal and telecomillullicationis services;
3   reduction of unsatisfied demand by the addition of 38,700 new subscribers, improvemilenit of local
and long-distance services, and digitization of the network;
3   imiproving access to telephone services in rural areas; and
3   introduction of commercially oriented accoulits and reports and improvement of the finanices of
the Sri Lanka Telecommuniications Departmenit (SLTD); e.g., a deficit in the settlemenit of
intemational calls at the start of the project was tulired into an aninual US$10 mlillioni surplus at
the end of the project.
2.     The first Telecommunicationis Project was also successful in creatling good relationis and
knowledge of Sri Lanka's telecommunLicatiotis sector in the Bank.
Project Objectives
3.     The Second Telecommunicationis Project built oni the acilievemilenit and experience gained unider
the First Telecommuniications Project and its maini objectives as set oul in the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) were:
*   establish a new corporation, Sri Lanka Telecom  (SLT), out of the formliel department and
strengthen its capabilities in the areas of corporate planning, financial management, network
planning and engineering, and operations and maintenance:,
*   promote private operator participation in sector developmielit; and
*   reduce unsatisfied demand by connecting 50,000 new subscribers, reducc network congestioni,
and improve service quality.
4.     The main project objectives focussed on institutionial and sector Irelform, whichi was reflected by
the project conditionality. As a condition of project appraisal, SLTD was in 1990 converted into a state-
owned corporation, SLT and, as conditions of effectiveness, a new Telecomiliuiniicationis Act, satisfactory
to IDA, was enacted and an operating license for SLT signed in 1991. To ensure satisfactory institutional
arrangements, financial performance regarding tariff levels and cash genieration, and improved SLT
efficiency, the following covenants were also agreed with the Govermiienlt of Sri Lanka (GOSL) and
SLT:



- ii -
* GOSL to review the institutional arrangements for the sector by June 1993 and implement
changes as agreed with IDA;
*   SLT to produce a rate of return of 15% on revalued net fixed assets and contribute an average of
at least 25% of its capital expenditures from internally generated funids; and
*   SLT to improve its service quality and staffing ratio in line with agreed pertfomiaice indicators.
5.     The project objectives in the institutional areas were not as ambitious as envisaged during the
early project preparation. The full corporatization of SLTD under the Companies' Act and development
of specific private telecommunications services had to be delayed and a more gradual approach adopted
due to labor union and wider political oppositioin to privatization. After some hesitationi, the Bank agreed
to this and subsequent events indicate that the Bank's flexibility was justified in this case.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.     The objective to strengthen SLT's institutional capabilities was largely successful in the areas of
corporate planning, network planning and engineering, and operations and mainitenianice, as well as
reduction of the staffing ratio and improved financial performance'. This is reflected by the agreed
performance indicators given in Table 5. SLT's finanicial management, however, did not improve as
much as expected; e.g., accounts receivable were brought below the equivalenit of three monithis of billinl
only towards the end of the project in mid-1998 and a performance related profit shar-inig system was not
fully implemented.
7.     The project's physical objectives were overachieved. The SAR indicated 50.000 new subscribers
to be connected under the project. By June 1998, about 1 15,000 liies (includinig exchange rehabilitatioll)
had been provided under the project and about 80,000 subscribers coniected. By the end of 1998, over
160,000 lines should have been installed under the project. SLT's service quality also improved ulider-
the project (see Table 5). The project results are sustainiable and likely to be improved on by the private
operators.
8.     The overachievement of institutional objectives was mainly due to GOSL's reform policies, the
1991 Telecommunications Act and the willihginess of GOSL and the sector regulator to license new
private operators. The private sector's interest In startilng up new telecomm11ullicationis operationis in Sri
Lanka was also an important factor and indicates that the private operators had confidenice in the legal and
regulatory framework of the sector. Physical objectives were overachieved due to substanitially lower unlit
prices than projected, especially for exchange equipmenit and local networ-ks, and the Bank's willinginess
to reallocate Credit funds and allow increased quantities under the exchanige supply contracts. Even so,
demand for telecommunications services could not be fully satisfied.  The telegr-aph equipment
component was canceled, as telegramils increasingly were replaced by f:axes.
9.     The  objective  of  promoting  private  investmilenlts  and  operations  in  Sri  Lanka's
telecommunications sector was overachieved. Wheni the project started, ther-e was only one private
mobile cellular operator in Sri Lanka and paginig services. By mid-1998, there were about 30 private
operators providing mobile cellular, wireless local loop (WLL), paginig, data transmission, public card
phone, and other services to over 200,000 subscribers and the public in genieral. Continiuous dialog with
GOSL on reform issues and the 1991 Telecomimluniicationis Act and its subsequenit amenidimient in 1996 to
strengthen the regulator were major reasons for this development. In 1996, SLT was converted into a
company, SLTL, and 35% of its equity sold to a shareholder investor in 1997. This investor was given a
management contract for SLTL, so all telecommunicationis services in Sri Lanka are now provided by
' In this report, "financial performance" refers to cash generationi and rate of return. "Financial management" refers
to billing/collection and timely financial reporting.



- iii -
private operators. A chronology of telecommunications sector refonis in Sri Lanka is given in the Box
below.
1980   Separation of postal and telecommunications services.
1981   The first paging service license granted.
1985   Customer premises equipment (telephones, fax machines, and PBXs) opened to competitioni.
1988   The first mobile cellular service license granted.
1989   Second, third, and fourth paging licenses granted.
1990   A GOSL corporation, Sri Lanka Telecom (SLT) legally established.
1991   0  The new Telecommunicationls Act of 1991 adopted, creatiing the reggulatory authority (SLTA) within
the Ministry of Posts and Telecommtlunlicationls (MOPT).
* SLT's operating license signed.
*  Two licenses granted for store-and-forward fax services.
*  Two licenses granted for data transmission servkces.
1992   0  A second cellular license granted
*  A fifth paging license granted.                   __
1993   *  A third cellular license granted.
* A third data-services license granted
* A first trunked-mobile service license is granted.
* SLT sublicenses card pay phoines services.
*  A New GOSL-owned compainy, Sri Lanka Telecoii tServices) Ltd. (SLTS). created to impiciliimet a
planned turnkey supplier-financed project for 250,000 lines.
1996   *  Two licenses for wireless local ioop services (WLL) are granted.
*  Amenidmelt of the 1991 Telecommun1illications Aci.
Conversion of SLT into a compaly (SLTL) ulider the Companics Act.
1997   *  Conversioni of SLTA into a more indepeindenit Tc!commllun.ications Rcgulatory Comimillissioi (TRC).
*  Privatization of SLTL throughi the sale of 35'%0 of its equity to a strategic investor and a maniagemiielit
contract for this investor.
10.    A summary of project costs, fundinlg, and implemeiltationl is given in the table below and detailed
costs and funding information is included in Tables 8A and 8B.
I 1.    The performance of the Bank and the Borrower was satisfaetory. The Bank was flexible during
project preparation (see para. 5 above) and GOSL fIllly supported the reform  of the sector, especially after
the 1993 mid-term review and sector report (see Appendix D.6). The only major project problem was the
procurement of local networks, whicih was delayed by nearly three years. The Cabinet, based on SLT's
evaluation, made an award recommendation that the Bank could not accept and it took over two years to
solve this problem in a mutually satisfactory way.
12.    On the whole, despite a delay of nearly three years in the completioni of the physical components
of the project, the final outcome is highly satisfactory.



- iv -
Project Implementation
;t>'X't ..'t, ">''- Project              Total Cost (Is$ Million)       Funding       Completion
Components                     SAR          Actual         Source           Date
Telephone Exchanges (Local + Tandem)        59.9           33.1    IDA SLT             Dec-98
Cable Plant (Regions)                       17.5           29.3    JDA,SLT             Dec-98
Cable Plant (G. Colombo)                    44.1           49.4     OECFSLT            Aug-95
Technical Assistance, MIS and Accountiig    7.9            5.4    IDA. ADB.           Dec-97
and Billing Systems                                                 UNDPITU. SLT
International Facilities                    18.7           18.7     ADB'SLT            May-96
Trunk Transmission Network                  28.4           30.4     ADBI'SLT            Jani-98
National Switching Center                    5.6           12.2     AT&T/SLT           Jani-93
Spur Transmission Systems                   10.6            5.4    Sl T                Dec-98
Telegraph Equipment                          3.1           ---      ll)ASLT
Subscriber Terminals                         5.5           15.0 (*) SLT SLubscrtibers
Buildings and Stores                         2.8            1.6    SLT                 Dec-97
TOTAL        204.1          202.5                         Dec-98
(*) Estimated at USS 100/subscriber: not included by SLTL in Appenidix D.
Summary of Findings
13.    Due to slow disbursement, this project was for some time classified as a problem project despite
institutional, sector reform, and physical objectives being mostly overachieved. The reasons for the slow
disbursement, in addition to the delayed project implemlienitationl and procurement of local networks (para.
II above), were the cancellation of the telegraph componienit (US$2.0 million) and lower prices than
projected, especially for exchange equipment, whichi resulted in the cancellationl of about US$7.3 millioni
of the Credit after its closing date. In retrospect, more weight should have been given to the progr-ess
towards the achievement of project development objectives thani to the disbursement numbers.
14.    All telecommunications services in Sri Lanka are now provided by private operators and the Bank
does not contemplate any further freestandinig project to support telecommunications operationis.
However, under the ongoing Private Sector Infrastructure Development Project, there is at least one
private telecommunications operator applying for funds. FuLther, under the ongoinig Telecommuniications
Regulation and Public Enterprise Reform Techniical Assistance Project (Credit 2837-CE), the Bank is
supporting further strengtheninig of the sector regulationi to ensuLe contilnued satisfactory sector
development and fair competitioni.
15.    Some lessons to be learned fiom this project are:
*  radical sector reform takes time and contilnued involvemiienit in a sector provides the Bank with the
opportunity to support reform step by step ulider various Governments. The Bank can play a
useful role in initiating and supportinig politically unpopular reforimis;
*  patience and flexibility oni behalf of the Bank regaidilig project objectives and conditionality may
be justified to overcome labor and other opposition to changes, provided Government is
committed in the longer term to sector reformi;
*  labor unions should be involved at an early stage of reform and their concerns addressed to
reduce resistance to change;



- v -
*  the successful private operation of value-added and other marginal telecommunications services
may reduce staff fears of privatization of the main operators. It may also provide comfort to
potential investors, as it provides a track record of commercial operations and shows that the legal
and regulatory framework is working satisfactorily,
*  a government corporation can operate more efficientiy thani a departmenit, e.g.. regarding demanld
satisfaction and service improvemiienits.  Its efficiency will still be hamilpered, howvever, by
government salary scales, investimienit approvals, and procuremiient procedul-es.  Only fuill
corporatization under the Companies Act, preferably with private maniagement and suitable
regulation, provides the necessary autonomiiy to quickly expand service to meet demanid and
incentives to become more consuLimer orienited and competitive,
*  competitioni leads to lower prices and reduces the need fSor price regulationi. With four competing
providers of mobile cellular- services, Sri Lanka has some of the lowest mobile tariffs in the
world;
*  the project team was the samie fi-om identification to completioni and one Bank staff was also
involved in the first TelecomilIlilmicationis Project in Sri Lanka. This contilnuity of project staff
contributed to makin- the Bank's support of sector reforii effective; and
*  suL-plus credit funds due to cost savings and elhiminationl of project componienits should be
identified and canceled early to redLice commitment charges for the Borrower and to ensure
adequate iniformationi for the Bank to adequately evaluate disbursemilenlt performialice.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Sri Lanka
Second Telecommunications Project
(Credit 2249-CE)
PART I - IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Evaluation of Objectives
I.    Consistenlt with GOSL's sector strategy, IDA's priticipal objectives under- the project were to
SuppOIt sectoral reforimi throughll the enactilienit of new telecomillullicationis legislation, the establishmenit
of a new comillercially orienlted, auton1omLIous operating entity (SLT) and a separate regulatory authority
(SLTA), improve sector efficiency, promliote private investments and operations, and help finance SLT's
initial investmenit programil to expand and improve telecomimiunicationis services. SLT was established in
1990 as a condition of appraisal and the 1991 Telecommulnications Act, includinig the legal basis for a
regulatory authority, was a conditioni of credit effectiveness. Major sector objectives were, thus, achieved
at an early stage.
2.     Specific project objectives as listed in the SAR were to:
(a)    strengthen SLT's capabilities in the areas of corporate planning, financial management,
network planning and engineering, and operationis and mainitenianice;
(b)    facilitate private sector participationi; and
(c)    provide 50,000 new lines to meet about 80% of demand in project areas by 1995, reduce
network congestion, increase call completion rates, and reduce the rate of faults.
3.     The project objectives were relevanlt, clear, and realistic and were not modified during project
implemiienitationi. The achievemilenlt of those objectives, however, was quite demanding for GOSL and the
imiplemientinlg agency, SLT, in particular. This was noted during project preparation and the SAR
identified the risk of possible delays in project implemenitation due to the time needed to make SLT and
the sector reg,ulationi operationially effective as well as SLT's limited project implementation capabilities.
B. Achievement of Objectives
4.     The sector policy objectives were overachieved. At the end of the project, SLT had been
converted into a company (SLTL) under private management', various private service providers licensed,
and a functioning sector regulation established (see Appendix D.6). Competition between mobile
cellular- operators has led to quick expansion of service and some of the lowest tariffs in the world. In
recent years, SLT has accelerated its network development and in the first six months of 1998 nearly
63,000 new subscribers were connected, which is more than in any previous full years. Unsatisfied
demand for telephone service has been reduced and subscribers and the economy in general now benefit
from more varied telecommunicationis services at competitive prices.
l 65% of SLTL's equity is still owned by Government. The private investor/operator, owning 35% of SLTL, is
operating ALTL under a management contract.



-2 -
5.     The financial project objectives have been fully met. SLT produced a higher rate of return and
contributed out of its own cash generation more funds to its capital investments than projected in the
SAR. GOSL has also benefited fiscally from the sector: US$ 14.0 million was collected in 1996 from two
new WLL licenses; US$225 million was paid in 1997 for a 35% equity share in SLT and its management
and growing income taxes are received from SLTL and other private operators as their subscriber base
and revenues grow.
6.     The institutional development objectives for sector regulation were fully met. In the case of SLT,
the objectives were achieved in the areas of staffing ratios, network enginieerinig and planning, operations
and maintenance, and service quality improvements. As seen from Table 5, staff per 1,000 subscribers
was brouglht down from 85 in 1990 to 23 in 1998, mainly due to stable staff numiibers and expansion of
the network, and subscriber service complaints per 100 lines in Colombo from 25 per months to 7. SLT's
financial maniagemlienit, however, remained weak durinig the project period and only towards the end of the
project in mid-1998 were outstanding bills brouglht down to agreed levels and audit reports submitted
within agreed time frame. SLT did not fully imlplemenit a performllanice related profit shar-inig system.
7.     Physical project objectives were overacllieved, althouglh late. The original objective of 50,000
new subscribers by 1995 was achieved in 1997 and by mid-1998 aboLit 80,000 subscribers had been
connlected under the project. By the end of 1998, this nIlimber is expected to have increased to about
120,000-more thani double the original objective. The reason was higher demand growth than projected
and that prices for switchilng equipmiienit had become much lower thani at the time of appraisal, which
allowed SLT to exercise the option to increase supply contracts, rehabilitate more exchanges, and include
30,000 subscriber lines in the IDA-funded tandemii exchanige. The tandem exchange was installed about
two years behind schedule, but still oni time to provide the necessary interconnection facilities to the
private operators outside SLT, especially the WLL operators licensed in 1996.
S.    The basic assumption for the IRR calculationis in the SAR was that SLT's international and long-
distance traffic could not be increased without the project investments. This assumption was, oni the
whole, soulld. The re-estimated economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is 64%, which compares
flavorably with the SAR estimate of 37%. However, this ERR may unlderstate the real ERR, as: no
consUmner  suLplus was taken into accounlt despite unlsatisfied demand at current tariff levels; no increase in
consumller- surplus was considered despite imiprovemiient in service quality and expansion of the network,
which makes the telephone service more useful for all subscribers; and no incremental benefit beyond
2000 has been included, althouglh the ilfrastructure provided under the project allows connection of more
subscribers at low marginial cost.
9.     The re-estimated financial rate of return (FRR) for the project is 41%, which is substantially
higlher than the SAR estimate of 27%. This FRR should be on the conservative side, as it is based on
SLT's average revenues and operating costs per subscriber. Most subscriber lines provided under the
project were for the Greater Colombo Area with its concentration of business subscribers and economies
of scale, and incremenital project revenues may, therefore, be higher and operating costs lower than SLT's
average. A summiiary of assumptionis for the ERR and FRR calculations is given in Table 9.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
10.    During the project period, technology development and competition brought down unit prices for
telecommunications equipment, especially switching equipment, which made it possible to increase the
project scope and at the same time reduce its cost. This factor, outside GOSL's control, had a substantial
positive impact on the achievement of the physical objectives of the project.
11.   SLT's autonomy and authority during the Project period was quite limited. GOSL had agreed to
increase SLT's authority and approval limits to procure goods and services as necessary to ensure



- 3 -
efficient project implementation. The approval thresholds established for SLT proved to be inadequate,
however, and the local procurement procedures were not conducive to efficient implementation. Only
after SLT's conversion in 1996 into a company, SLTL, and its subsequenit privatization in 1997, were
procurement procedures radically changed.
12.    The main reason for the nearly three year delay in implemenitation of the project's physical
components was the late procurement of regional networks. The Cabinet Appointed Tender Board
(CATB) made an award recommendation that was not acceptable to the Bank under its procurement
guidelines. It took over two years, a change of government, and a new CATB to revise the award
recommendation in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. The Technical Evaluation Committee (TEC) of the
implementing agenicy, SLT, could have avoided the above delay in procuUremllent ot regional networks by
following  the Bank's procuremiient guidelinles more closely  in  its evaluation  and  subsequent
recommenidationi to CATB.
13.    Project implemiienitationi delays may also have been caused by major additions in 1992-97 to
SLT's investment programii outside the project. Those additions used a substanitial portion of SLT's
limited planninig and project implemiienitationl capacity.  The major additions were a 50,000 Inzes
emergency project for Colombo and a "150K" project, whiclh finally added about 250,000 lines to SLT's
network (see Appendix D.5). AlthouL1gh the "I 50K" project was implemented by a state-owned company,
Sri Lanka Telecom1 Services Ltd. (SLTS)'. created specifically for this purpose, substantial SLT input was
still required.
D. Project Sustainability
14.    The project achievements in the sector reform areas appear irreversible, especially after the 1996
amenidnieiit of the Telecomnmuniicationis Act, the conversion of the regulator into a more independent
comimiilissioIn, SLT's privatization, and various other private operators well established. SLTL's new
private maniagemiienit established a businiess plan for SLTL's future development and this plan includes the
efficient operationi of equipmenit provided under the project.  The plan also provides for further
imipr-ovements of SLTL's finanicial managellenlt, operating efficiency, and service quality.  The
achievemlienits so far in these areas are, therefore, likely to improve during the project operation period.
On the whole, project achievemenlts will most likely be sustainable.
E. Bank Perfokrmance
15.    The project was first identified in combination with a 1986 the supervision of the First
TelecommunLications Project. Initially, it was to be included as a component of a larger project for reform
of public enterprises, but this larger project got delayed and in 1989 it was decided to go ahead with a
freestanding telecommunications project. This appears to have been the right decision, as GOSL's as
well as the Bank's attention could be fully focussed on tihe proposed telecommunications sector reform
under the project, which was the first IDA project that aimed at an overall reform of the sector, including
GOSL realized that SLT as a state corporation had difficulties in rapidly implementation and Sri Lanka Telecom
Services, Ltd. (SLTS) was established in 1993 under the Companies Act to implement the "150 K" project. As a
conmpany, SLTS could pay higher salaries than SLT and, thus, attract qualified Sri Lankans from abroad. Further,
SLTS was not subject to SLT's time-consuming approval and procurement procedures. After the "150 K" lines
transfer to SLT and SLT's conversion into a company in 1996, the rationale for SLTS ceased. It is now a shell that
GOSL may use for other purposes.



- 4 -
its legal framework and institutions. It was consistent with GOSL's priorities and the Bank's country
strategy. The Bank's performance was satisfactory.
16.    In early 1986, before the Bank had decided on a freestanding telecommunications project, GOSL
established a Telecommunications Board (TBSL) to develop a sector-restructurinig p;ogram, including the
transformation of SLTD into a company under the Companies Act for possible privatization, and the
establishment of an independent regulatory body. IDA supported TBSL's activities through two PPFs, in
1986 and 1988. However, labor resistance and political oppositioni to privatization caused GOSL to
dissolve TBSL in 1989 and adopt a more gradual approach to sector reform. This resulted in 1990 in
SLTD's transforniation into a fully Governmenit-owned corporation (SLT) and the creation of a
regulatory authority (SLTA) as a department within the Ministry of Posts and Telecomillunicationis. The
project scope was revised to reflect the above chanlges and the Bank showed substantial flexibility in this
process. The project was appraised In May 1990 with a post-appraisal mission in December the same
year. The Bank project team consisted of a senior financial analyst and a telecommunications engineer,
both with substantial sector experience. Given the difficult circumstances at the time, the Bank's project
preparation performiaice was highily satisfactory.
17.    SLTD's conversioni into a more indepenidenit goveriinient-owined corporation, SLT, was a
conditioln of appraisal and was also seen by the Batik as a concrete sign of GOSL's commitment to sector
reform. The enactimienit of the 1991 Telecommllullicationls Act, including the creationi of a regulatory
authiority, SLTA, was a conditioni of credit effectiveness.  By satisfying these conditions, GOSL
demonistiated its commilitimienit as well as its ability to reforimi the sector. The limited capabilities of SLT to
implement the physical project componienits was noted and to miniiilize the risks of implementation
delays, a suitable technical assistance package, extensive use of turinkey contracts, and suitable
coonditionialities were provided for in the project.
IX.    The initial activities to make SLTA operationally effective were funded separately as a TA
comiiponienit of the Industrial Developmenit Project 3 (IDP 3) and, therefore, excluded from the Second
TelecomimniLlcationis Project. The 1986 PPF for US$750,000 was charged against the IDP3 Credit and
the 1988 PPF for USD$550,000 against the credit for this project. The main reason for this separation
was that the IDP3 funds were available earlier and GOSL, as well as the Bank, realized the importance of
havinig a regulatory and licensing authority prepared by the time the 1991 Telecommunications Act was
enacted.
19.    The project's sector reforimi componienits, e.g., a new telecommunications act, the establishment of
a regulator, and the conversion of SLTD into a corporation, were prepared with Bank PPF assistance and
expected to be implenienited by Credit effectiveness in accordance with the proposed project
conditionality. The project appraisal, therefore, focused on the project's physical components. These
were fairly straight forward, but the size of the project, compared to SLT's limited capabilities, and the
iiumber of co-financiers created coordination problems. Those matters were addressed during appraisal
and, to ensure efficient project implementation, suitable TA and conditionalities were identified to
minimize implementation problems. Except for a nearly three year delay in implementation of IDA-
funded regional networks as well as a similar delay of ADB-funded long-distance facilities, the project
implementation alTangements identified during appraisal worked reasonably well.
20.    The financial package for the project was appropriate and the credit amount adequate, based on
the price and other information available at the time of appraisal. In retrospect, given the fall in prices,
especially for switching equipment, the original project objectives could have been achieved by a smaller
IDA credit. This development was not easy to foresee at the time of appraisal and, given the unexpected
high growth in telecommunications demand, the overachievement of physical objectives made possible
by the Credit was a good thing.
21.    IDA's relations during appraisal with other agencies that helped finance the project, i.e., ADB,
OECF, and UNDP/ITU, was good. IDA and ADB had common project preparation missions as well as



-5 -
appraisal. However, ADB presented its part of the project to the ADB Board as a stand-alone project with
weaker conditionality regarding sector reform, e.g., the Telecommunications Act, than the Bank had
recommended. Further, the accounting and billing systems components to be funded by ADB were
delayed and finally canceled and this made it difficult for SLT to comply with financial reporting and bill
collection covenar. .s agreed with the Bank.
22.    The project implemenitation plan and performnaice indicators for SLT (Table 5) were adequate.
In retrospect, the projected performance of SLT for the early years was optimistic.  In later years,
however, SLT's performance surpassed expectations. The project was appraised by the same staff that
identified and prepared it. The Bank's performance dulinig appraisal was satisfactory.
23.    The project implemenltation delays were caused by SLT's limited capabilities, especially in the
early stages of the project, as well as its procurement procedures established by GOSL. Those SLT
weaknesses were noted in the SAR and suitable TA was provided under the project to strengtheni SLT's
capabilities. GOSL also provided SLT/MOPT somewhat more auton1omily in SLT's proculemenet. This
was not enouglh, however, to avoid imiplemllentationi and disbuLsemiienlt delays, whiclh were duly reported in
the Supervision Form-ls 590. Follow-up letters to SLT and MOPT witlh recomminiendations to accelerate
proculemenet were acted oni, but with some delays.  For those reasons, the project was temporarily
classilied by the Banlk as a problemii project.
24.   In addition to a one-year project start-up delay, the contract for regional networks was further
delayed due to a procurement issue. To ensure sufficient funds for the various project components, the
Banik did not process some credit reallocation requests until after this procurement issue had been solved
and the regionial networks supply contract signied. This contributed to delays in project implementation,
particularly the expansion of the scope of the exchange rehabilitation component and, to some extent, the
procurlemenit of the tandemii exchanige with 30,000 subscriber lines added to it. In retrospect, and given the
USS7.25 million in cost saving7s cancelled upOIn Credit closing date, the Bank could have processed SLT's
credit reallocationl requests quicker.
25.    All institutional and finanicial perform-1anice covenanits were complied with.  SLT's financial
maniagtemienit, however-, did not improve as expected and covenants on timely financial reporting and
audits, billing and collection, and perform-latnce based staff incentives were complied with late or not fully
complied with. Durinig negotiations, it was noted that SLT would not be able to comply with these
covenanits utitl new accounting and billing systems, to be funded by ADB, were operational. This project
componienit was delayed and finally canceled. SLT installed new systems funded out of its own resources,
but those systems became operational only in 1998 towards the end of the project. This was duly noted in
the Supervisioni Forms 590 and SLT was requested to take suitable corrective actions. Taking into
accoullt the circumstances, the Bank showed some flexibility, e.g., by agreeing to delay the due date of
SLT's audit reports from four montlhs to eight months after the close of the fiscal year, provided
unaudited accounts were received within four months.
26.    During negotiations, it was agreed to undertake a mid-term review in June 1993 with focus on the
institutionial arrangemiients for the sector. This review was combined with a sector report, Strategic
Options for thle Telecommunications Sector (8SRISR057). The main recommendations of this report
were to: open up the local and long-distance markets to competition from wireless operators; strengthen
the regulator by giving SLTA the status of a more independent commission; convert SLT into a company
under the Companies Act for subsequent privatization; and amend the 1991 Telecommunications Act to
facilitate the aforementioned. All the recommendations of this sector report were implemented by GOSL
in 1994-97 (see Appendix D.6). The project, thus, achieved all the original sector objectives identified
during project preparation but not reflected in the project documentation due to labor union and political
opposition, at the time, to SLT's privatization.
27.   In the SAR, the Bank's project supervision was estimated to require 10 staff-weeks per year and
this esLimate proved fairly accurate (see Table 13). The Bank supervision of project implementation



-6 -
consisted of about two missions a year by the same staff that prepared and appraised the project and
regular contacts through letters, fax, and phone between the Bank, the Borrower, and the implementing
agency, SLT. At the early stages of project implementation, reports and other information were also
exchanged with cofinanciers to facilitate coordinated implementation of the project as a whole. The Bank
based its performance rating of the project largely on implementationi and disbursement data and, in
retrospect, more attention could have been paid to the achievement of the larger development objectives.
On the whole, the Bank's performance during the supervision stage was higilly satisfactory.
F. Cofinanciers Performance
28.    The project was cofinaniced by OECF (local networks in Colombo), ADB (interinational, domestic
long-distance facilities, and finalicial systems), AT&T (nationial switching center in Colombo), and
UNDP/ITU (training center). Originally, the national switchingt center was expected to be funded by
Franice. As AT&T finianlced this project component, the Frencih fuLids were used for other equipimienit
outside the project. The OECF, AT&T, and UNDP/ITU ftinded project components were implemilenited
largely on schedule. The implemenitation of the ADB-funded long-distance network was about two years
delayed. As Bank-funded project componienits and other developments in the regions also were delayed,
the ADB delay In itself did not have a major nlegative limpact oln the project.
29.    As part of project preparation, ADB fuLided a telecommuniications demand study. The Bank was
invited to participate In this study and the results were shared between ADB and the Bank. The study's
demilanid projectionis were based oni the ITU model, i.e., relating ,rowth in telecommuniications demand to
populationi and GDP growth. The resulting forecast demanid substanitially underestimated the growth in
real demanid for telecomillullicationis services, however, as "hidden" demand surfaced after telephones
started to become more widely available. Appendix D.3 shows the actual service demanid in the period
1 990-97 and indicates that SLTL aims at fully satisfying demand by the year 2000.
30.    The computerized accountinig and billing and collection systems to be funded by ADB under the
project were not implemented. This made it difficult for SLT to fully comply with the covenants agreed
with the Bank regarding timely finanicial reporting, performance related profit sharing, and accounts
receivable. On the whole, the performance of the cofinanciers was satisfactory.
G. Borrower Performance
3 1.   In February 1986, GOSL established a Telecommunications Board of Sri Lanka (TBSL) to:
conver-t SLTD into a company under the Companies Act, prepare its Articles of Association, review
offers of foreign collaboration, draft the necessary new telecommunications legislation, and establish a
regulatory body for the sector. The Bank supported TBSL's activities through two PPFs, one in 1986 and
one In 1988. Towards the end of 1988, TBSL, with PPF-funded consultants' assistance, had largely
completed the drafting of a new telecommunications act and SLT's articles of association and was ready
to start the implementation of planned sector reforms. However, in February 1989, confronted with labor
unlioIn and other political opposition to the privatization of SLTD, GOSL dissolved TBSL and transferred
its files and functions to the MOPT.
32.    MOPT, on GOSL's instructions, planned for a more gradual reform of the sector than TBSL had
done, e.g., the conversion of SLTD into a fully GOSL-owned corporation, the establishment of a sector
regulator within MOPT under departmental status and a new telecommunications act that supported this
development. Most work done by TBSL was amended accordingly by MOPT. The labor unions initially
also opposed the conversion of SLTD into a govemment corporation and it took over a year for MOPT



and the unions to agree on staff transition arrangements. By 1991, SLTD had been converted into a
government corporation, SLT, the 1991 Telecommunications Act enacted, and a regulatory authority for
the sector, SLTA, established with MOPT departmental status.
33.    GOSL's dissolution of TBSL and the adoption of a more gradual approach to sector reform kept
the reform process alive in face of labor union and wider political opposition to this reform. The labor
unions accepted SLTD's conversion from department to government corporationi on the condition that no
staff would be laid off. Fulther, SLTD staff were given three basic options: retire with some extra
benefits; retain civil servant status and joil SLT or another GOSL entity, o01 become SLT staff with about
30% salary increase. Nearly all SLTD staff opted to joil SLT and the political opposition to refoml
subsided.  GOSL's perforimianice during project preparationi should, therefore, be considered fully
satisfactory.
34.    SLT, the implementing a,ency, planined and prepared the project in a professional manner.
Despite its conversionl fi-om a GOSL departimienit into a corporation and intensive labor union negotiations,
SLT succeeded in coordinatilng the cofinanciers and the various project componenits and design the largest
SLT development project so far. SLT recognized its Iimited project implemenitationl capabilities and
suitable TA was included in the project, e.g. corporate planning, network planining and engineering,
operationis and mainitenianice, and finanicial management, in iCludinig new accountling, billing and collection
systems to be finded by ADB. SLT's perforimianice during project preparation was satisfactory.
3 5.    GOSL's perforimiance duLilng project implemiletitatiol, in particular after the 1993 mid-term review
and Bank sector report, was highly satisfaictory, especially in the sector policy and institutional areas, e.g.,
amenidimienit of the 1991 Telecominlllicationis Act, conversion of SLT into a company under the
Companiies Act and subsequent privatization, conversionl of SLTA into a more independent commission
(the Telecommunllicationis Regulator-y Commilissioni-TRC), and the licensilig of various private operators
(see Appendix D.6). Some of the maini reasons for GOSL's successful sector reform were that: the labor
UlliOlnS were giveni suitable assurances to satisfy their concerils; various private companies were interested
in investing and operating telecommllullicationis services in Sri Lanka; the sector regulation was seen by
the private operators and other-s to operate In a fair manner-; and, most importantly, GOSL had the will and
ability to implemiienit refor-mils.
36.    A contributing factor to the successful conversion of SLT into a company, SLTL, and its
privatization may have been the establishillenit and rapid growth of other private operators. Many SLT
statf had forimler- colleagues doing well working for private operators, which diminished SLT staff fear of
privatization.  Further, a successful track record of private telecommunications operations had been
established in Sri Lanka before SLTL's privatization. This provided potential investors with the comfort
that the legal and regulatory system was functioning well.
37.    SLT had initial difficulties in implementing the TA and physical components of the project.
Most studies (see Table 7) and equipmenit procurement got delayed by about a year, but the project could
still have been completed by the original Credit closling date if the procurement of regional networks had
not been delayed. SLT's Technilcal Evaluation Committee (TEC) recommended award of the regional
cable networks to anothier bidder than the lowest evaluated one. The Cabinet Appointed Tender Board
(CATB) accepted TEC's recommendation and sent its award recommendation to the Bank, which
objected to the proposed award. This matter was reviewed and discussed between the Bank, MOPT, SLT,
and SLT's consultants for nearly two years and the Bank was prepared to declare misprocurement. A
new govemment and CATB, however, changed the original award recommendation in a way satisfactory
to the Bank and the implementation of the regional networks could start after a nearly three-year delay.
38.    The demand for telecommunications services increased faster than projected (Appendix D.3),
resulting in long lists of people applying for service. In addition to licensing private service providers,
some major public investments in the sector, e.g. a 50,000-line emergency project for Colombo, to be



-8 -
implemented by SLT, and a "150K" project (which finally provided a 250,000-line addition, see
Appendix D.5), to be implemented by a state-owned company, SLTS, which was created for this
purpose. Those projects were implemented in parallel with the IDA supported project and, although well
justified from a demand satisfaction point of view, used a substantial part of SLT's limited planning and
project implementation resources. This may have contributed to the delays in the implemenitation of the
IDA supported project.
39.    SLT's performance, taking into account the regional networks procurement and other project
implementation delays, was less than satisfactory. Considering, the substantial investments, e.g., the
Colombo emergency scheme and the "150K" project. that SLT was obliged by GOSL to uLidertake in
parallel with the IDA-supported project, however, SLT's overall implemenitation performiance should be
considered satisfactory.
H. Assessment of Outcome
40.    Given the overachievements of sector, institUtional and physical objectives of the project, its high
ERR, and a highi probability that project achievemlienits will be sustainied, the project outcome should be
considered highly satisfactory.
1. Future Operation
41.    SLT's private management has accelerated the connection of new subscribers and during the first
half of 1998 nearly 63,000 new subscribers were conniected. This is more than in any previous full year
and will lead to a more efficient use of SLT assets, including the ones installed under the project. The
waiting time for SLT phonie connectioni has been reduced to three monithis up to a year, depending on the
exchange area, from nearly 10 years at the time of project appraisal. Other private operators provide
service within weeks of application and have no waiting lists. SLT's service quality is being further
improved by SLT's private managemilenlt and new  procedures for efficient handling of customer
complailnts have been introduced nationwide.  SLT's recent performance indicates that the physical
components of the project will be operated in an efficient manner.
42.    The future perfonnance of SLT and the project could be monitored by the same indicators as
agreed for the project (see Table 5). The main monitorinig will, however, be conducted by the regulator,
TRC, as part of its regulatory functions. TRC's monitoring of all the operators in the sector will include:
service quality, compliance with license conditions, tariffs, finances, etc.  Given TRC's regulatory
authority  over the  private  operators, including  SLTL, and  the  competitive  nature  of the
telecommuniicationis market, the Bank could consider wavering the revenue covenants for the project.
There is, therefore, very little scope for a separate follow-up or monitoring by the Bank.
J. Key Lessons Learned
43.    Some lessons to be learned from this project are:
* radical sector reform takes time and continued involvement in a sector provides the Bank with the
opportunity to support reform step by step under various governments. The Bank can play a
useful role in initiating and supporting politically unpopular reforms;



*  patience and flexibility on behalf of the Bank regarding project objectives and conditionality may
be justified to overcome labor and other opposition to changes, provided Government is
committed in the longer term to sector reform;
*  labor unions should be involved at an early stage of reform and their concernis addressed to
reduce resistance to change;
*  the successful private operation of value-added and other marginial telecommunications services
creates new job opportullities and may reduce staff fears of privatization of the main operators. It
may also provide comfort to potential investors, as it provides a track record of commercial
operations and shows that the legal and regulatory fi-amework is working satisfactorily;
*  a gover-nmiilenit corporation can operate more efficiently than a departmiienlt, e.g., regarding demand
satisfaction and service impr-ovemiienits.  Its efficiency will still be hampered, however, by
governimlenit salary scales, investmiienit approvals, and procur-emiient proceduL-es.  Only full
corporatization under the Companlies Act, preferably witlh private management and suitable
regulation, provides the necessary autonomny to quickly expand se-vice to meet demanid and
incenitives to become more consumiier- oriented and competitive;
*  comlipetitioni leads to lower prices and reduces the need for price regulationi. With four competinig
providers of mobile cellular services, Sri Lanka has some of the lowest tariffs in the world;
-  the project team was the same fiom identificationi to completion and one Bank staff was also
involved in the first Telecommunllicationls Project in Sri Lanka. This continuity of project staff
contributed to makilng the Bank's support for sector reform-i effective; and
-  surplus credit funds due to cost savings and elimination of project components should be
identified and canceled early to reduce commitmiienit charges for the Borrower and to ensure
adequate informiiationi for the Bank to evaluate disbursement performance.
The above lessons are valid particularly for Sri Lanka's telecommunications sector as well as for many
other sectors and countries.
K. Evaluation of Program Objective Categories
44.    The project had nio specific social objectives, but is likely to have some beneficial social impact,
e.g. by improving telecommuniicationis in rural and other areas, some previously without telephone
service, whichi should facilitate access to medical care, GOSL agencies, etc. The numerous private
operators established after 1996 have also created new job opportunities in Sri Lanka. Further, by
supporting Sri Lanka's economic development, e.g., in the textile export and tourism industries that are
both telecommunicationis and labor intensive, the project would contribute to alleviation of poverty.
45.    The project was given a "C" environmental rating and its environmental impact was expected to
be miniimal.  However, the project should have some beneficial environmental effects, as improved
telecommllunications promotes efficiency in all sectors, particularly in the transport sector by allowing
more efficient use of vehicles thus reducing the number of trips.
46.    The main achievement of the project was to open up Sri Lanka's telecommunications market to
private operators through the 1991 Telecommunications Act. Before 1991, there was only one mobile
cellular company, licensed by SLT, with only about 2,000 subscribers, and some paging licensees. By
the end of the project in 1998, there were some 30 private companies providing mobile cellular, WLL,
paging, data transmission, public card phone, Internet, and other services.  The total number of



- 10 -
subscribers of those services exceeds 200,000 and is growing at a fast pace. With the privatization of
SLTL in 1997 and the transfer of its operations under a management contract, all telecommunications
services in Sri Lanka are now provided by private operators. The public now enjoys a wider choice of
telecommunications services at competitive prices. The project's private sector development objective
has, thus, been fully achieved.



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial       Partial        Negligible    Not applicable
Macro Policies                                                   E U  U          U
Sector Policies                 V/               a                               U
Financial Objectives             U               V/              [               O
Ilstittutionial Developmenit     V               O               a               C
P'hysical Objectives             V        0
Poverty Reductiotl               E]              O                               V/
Gender Issues                                    E l                             V/
Other Social Objectives          C1                      1       E U
Environimilenital Objectives    EO                               U O
Public Sector Managemilenit                      Ul              E l
Private Sector Developmeint      V                               U               U
Othier (specify)                                 E               Ul              U 2
B. Project Sustainability         Likely                 Unlikely                Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank Performance             satisfactory            Satisfactory             Deficient
Identificationi                 U                       V                       U
Preparation Assistance         V/                                               U
Appraisal                       U                        /                      U
Supervision                     V                       U                       U
Highly
D. Borrower Performance         satisfactory            Satisfactory             Deficient
Preparation                     U                       V/                      U
Implementatioi                  V/                      U                       U
Covenant Compliance             Ul                      VU
Operation (if applicable)       V                       U                       U
Highly                                         Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome        satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
V              U               U               U



- 12 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Loan/credit title                   Purpose                     approval        Status
Preceding operations
1. Telecommunications   Assist GOSL and SLTD in overcomning the      1980       Completed
Project (1).           major constrailits that impeded the
(C. 1020-CE)      developmenit of the sector: uLideriinvestiienit,
(C. 10 02-CE)          reliance on obsolete equipmenlt, and
institutional deficiencies. Separationi of
postal and telecomillullicationis services.
2. Emergency           Assist GOSL in its program to assist          1988       Completed
Reconstructioni and    returnees, revive economilc activities and
Rehabilitation Project.   restore essential services in several areas,
(C. 1883-CE)           includilg telecolmlIllullicatiolis.
3. Third Industrial    In the telecommuniications area: financing of  1988      Completed
Development Project    TA to the Sri Lanka Telecommunllications
(IDP 111).             Authority (SLTA) to establish a regulatory
(C. 1948-CE)           framework for operation of a commercially
(C. 1948-CE)         run communicatiolIs utility and private
telecommulLicationis companies.
Following operations
1. Telecommunications   Assist SLTA in the tranisitioni to a more    1996       Ongoing
Regulation and Public   independenlt Telecommunlications
Enterprise Technical   Regulatoiy Commission (TRC), strengthen
Assistance Project.    its regulatory authority and assist in
(C. 2837-CE)          improving its administrative and technical
(C. 2837-CE)           capabilities to plan and control the use of
radio frequency spectrum, including the
establishment of a computerized
managemenit and monitoring system.
Facilitate the divestiture of govenmment-
owned enterprises, including SLT.



- 13-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date
Steps in Project Cycle                         Planned              Actual/Latest Estimate
Identification (Initial EPS)'                                                  March 1989
Preparation                                      October 1989                  Oct. 1988-Apr. 1990
Appraisal                                         February 1990                May 1990, Dec. 1990
Negotiations                                     January 1991                  February 11-15, 1991
Board Presenitatioin                              March 26, 1991               May 28, 1991
Signinigl                                                                     JuIly 15, 1991
Effectiveness                                                                  December 24, 1991
Mid-term review                                  June 1993                    June 1993
Project Completion                               December 31, 1995             December 31, 1998
Loan Closing                                     June 30, 1996                June 30 1998
1. This i-.lS \%as the first tbr a fieestanding telecommiiunlicationis project. The project was initially identified in 1986, however,
as a coiliponienit of a larger public enlterprise retform project.



- 14 -
Table 4: Credit Disbursements - Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Thlousanids)
FY92      FY93       FY94       FY95      FY96       FY97       FY98      FY99
Appraisal Estimate             9,500    27,800    43,500    55,000    57,000
Actual                           161      2,626      5,437    16,680    20,231      27.414    37,614    48,514
Actual as % of Estimate           1.7        9.4      12.5       30.3       35.5      48.1       66.0       S5.1
Date of Final Disbursement                                   December 4, 1998
Cancellation: SDR 5.184 millioni (USS7.254 millioni)
Note: Fiscal years relate to the period July I -June 30 (IDA fiscal year).



15-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1990      I       1991       1      1992       1      1993       1      1994       1      1995       t 1996 1         91        111
Indiciators                 Appniua  Actual jA,prainl Actual AprainU  Actual Apprailul Actual|AploAinu  ActualApplA alal Actual|                       Actual
TELEPHONE NETWORK
Exchange Capacity (Linesi                   148.742  158,518  155.576 159,667  169.410  179,995 227,644 207,227  267.202 237,586 284.202 271.250  340.643            426.219      493.809
Main Linesm Service                         114,295  121,388 124.395  125,834  134.295  135.504  167,295  157.774 202,895  180,724  233.595 205.963 254,523          315,865       378.318
Exchange Fill (%                               76.8    76.6    80.0       78.8    79.3    75.3    73.5    76.1         75.9    76.1      82.2      75.9    74.7          74.1         76.6
Outside Plant Occupancy (%1            lal       58       46       60       47       62       48       65       54       67       61       69       59       59            62           66
Public Telephones SLT onlyl                    600      600      660      625       725     635      800       673      880      756      900      780      796         1,110
Main Lines in Ser t106 Populattan              0.64     071      0.69     073      073      0.78     0.90     0.89     1.07     1.02      121      115      141          171          2.03
Subscaber with STO I%l                           98       98       98       98       98       98       99       99       99       99                99      099           100          100
Subscsibers with ISOD %1 10                               10       10       10       10       10       20       20       20       20       25       20       20            20          74
Complamnsl100 lines in Sern.-Month.
Colonmbo Metro                                50       50       30       30       20        20       12       12       10       10        9       la       ta            8             7
-Provices                                      25       25       25       25       20       25       14       20       12       15       10        15       15           15           17
Operanor Answerng Time < 20 sNI
-Long Distance                                 90       90       90       90       95       95       98       98       98       98       99       98       98            98           98
International                                 74        74      80       80       85        85       90       90       95       95       99       95       98           98           98
Call Completion Rates le%:
local calls                                   27       27       35       35       45       40        45      40        45       45       50       45       45           45            35
interurban calls ISTOI                        26       26       27        27      30       30        30       30       33       33       55       33       33           35            28
international inconang calls                  21       21       22       22        22       28      40        40       45       45       50       55       55           65           65
PROOUCTIVITY
StaflfI,000 hires n Service                      85       66       80       57       70       56       60       47       50       40       40       39       33           28            23
FINANCIAL
Telephone ReveriuelLine IUS$)          lbh      650     650      650       670      670      867      680      833      700      873      750      893      979          782
Operaling CosUlTeleph. Line IUS$)      Ic)     300      300      300       348      305      363      320      566      330      542      320      622      596          565
Sell Iriancing Ratio IYr               id)       65     65.0    42.0   234.0       310    116.0    23.0    43.0    34.0    44.0   130.0    47.0            23.0          26 0
Operating Ratioa 1%                             41      41.0    40.0    36.4       380      710      42.0     58.0     39.0     70.0    36.0      64.0    61.0 1g9       720101
Current Ratio tiniesl                           4.0      4.0      3.5      60       2.7      78       3.5      5.7      4.1      6.5      4.1       1.9      1.7 1g9      2 1911
OebtlEquity Ration %l                           34       34        33       35      46        30       48       29       49       39       46       35       40 (91       49
Debt Service Coverage (tniesnl         lel      4.5      45       2.8     168       26       4.9      2.6      42       2.9      3.1      3.4       4.9      2.4          2.4
Returi on Assets I%)                            22        22       14      41        16       47       15       32       15       18       16       36       28 191       41 1g
Accounts Receivables lEquiv. nionthsl  111        5      5.0      4.0      6.6      3.0      7.1      3.0      8.0      3.0      5 5      3.0       5.0     4.0           5 0
Exchange Rate used  RslUS51.00                40.06             4137              43.83             48.00             49.00              54.05    56.71        62.15
lal Subscribers divided by pairs connected lo Main Orsntrbulion Frame
hb) Teleph. operating revenue during the period divided by average nuriiber of lines ici service durinig that periafl
Ic) Teleph. operating costs during the priod divided by ayerage nunhber of lines at service diiing Ihat peiiod
Idl Net of debt service. taxes, dividends and wotking capital increase. Percenit oa the aniniual cap,lal expeirdititre.
te) Net internal cash generation before interest, divided by interest plus amirortization.
(f1 Total account receivables divided by Avg. revenue per day for each category ot subscribers.
Igi Oilier tront the ratios calculated in Appendix 0.7, which are based on SLTL's audited fiiianicial slatetretits
I1I As of June 1998. Targets tor 1998 were not available.
Source: SLTL August 1998



- 16-
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Indicators for the operational phase of the project were not included in the SAR or the President's
Memorandum. The same indicators as agreed for the implementation phase (Table 5) and any other
parameters included in SLTL's license or agreed with the regulator, TRC. however, could be used to
monitor future performance of SLT. Monitoring of these indicators will be condLicted by TRC.
SLTL submitted the following infomiation about its current corporate plan:
I1.   Corporate Mission
Provide quality telecommunications services so that customers are satisfied and all people in Sri
Lanka have access to telephone service by 2001.
Quality means:
* the service is available when desired
* a high percentage of successful call
* a clear, good quality connection
* value-added services are available
Telecommunications services iniclude:
* national and international telephone services
* data, telex, and text services
* video services
* international transit services
Satisfied customiiers mnea,i:
*  meeting customers's needs timely and convenlienitly
* the services are reasonably priced
* problems are resolved quickly and convenienitly
Access for all people in Sri Lanika means:
* telephone and other services to all people who desire scrvices are provided readily
*  other have access to a private or public telephonie service withinl five kilometers
2.   Corporate Goals
(a)    To meet market demand by providing 880,000 telephonle lines by the year 2000
(b)    Effective and efficient use of manpower resources
(c)    To increase productivity throughi a contenlted workforce
(d)    To provide other services
(e)    To achieve and maintain interinationial quality standards
(f)    Generation of funds to meet capital investimicit
(g)    To maintain an adequate level of profitability
(h)    To achieve a minimum rate of return of 15% on re-valued fixed assets



- 17-
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                  Purpose as defined at                Status           Impact of
appraisaVredefined                                     study
I   PPF-funded studies   Organization and management, draft    Completed under    Provided a basis
for TBSL, 1986-90   Telecommunications Act, sector reform,   the PPFs        for sector reform.
and license for SLT; personnel
organization and managemenit; financial
planning; financial and accounting
systems; telecommunications legislation
and license.
2   Corporate planning   Institute a corporate planning function,    Completed under    SLT capabilities
develop appropriate methodologies to  IDA project        improved.
formulate initial corporate plans, and
monitor the fulfillment of corporate plans
and objectives.
3   Network planning    Enhance SLT's capabilities in economilic                  SLT capabilities
and traffic        location of telephone exchaniges, system    Completed under   improved.
engineering         design, preparation of specifications. and   IDA project
traffic measuremenlt and analysis.
4    Operations and      Upgrade SLT's operations and          CI d under    SLT service quality
maintenance         maintenance divisions to increase their   oIDpAte uer    improved.
development         productivity and efficiency.              project
5   Cost center based,    Introduce an effective incenltive system  Partly completed    Incenitives paid to
performance related  for SLT staff.                       under IDA project.  staff, but not
profit sharing                                                               performance
system for SLT staff                                             _           related.
6   Telecommunication   To maintain satisfactory finanicial    Completed under    Adequate tariffs
s tariff structure and   performance under new fiscal policies for  IDA project.  maintained.
levels             the sector and commercial onlendiig
terms for the debt.
7   Accounting system    Finalize SLT's opening balance sheet,  Completed under    Provided the base
(PPF)               design and assist in the implementationi of  IDA PPF     for financial
a suitable commercial accountitig system,                reporting.
and train SLT staff in commercial
accounting practices.
8    Managemenit         Establish a developmenit maniagemiienit  Completed uLider    SLT management
development         center and assist in materials        various agreements  capabilities
maniagemenit, customer services,      with UNDP/ITU      improved.
subscriber database, personinel and
financial management, informiationi
systems, and developmeilt of middle
managemenit.
9    Management          Review of the requiremnents in these  Completed during   Recommendations
inforniationi systems  areas.                             project preparation   not implemented.
and data processing                                       by ADB-funded
needs                                                     consultants.
10  Customer billing     Review the customer billing system,   Funded by ADB.    Recommendations
system,             conduct maintenance workshops, and                       not implemented.
maintenance, and    assist in preparing a quality improvement
service quality     plan.



- 18 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US$ Millions)
l      Appraisal Estimate      |   Actual/Latest Estimate (*)
Items                      Local    Foreign               Local    Foreign
|  Costs     Costs  I  Total      Costs  |  Costs      Total
IDA-FINANCED COMPONENTS
Local Telephone Exchanges:
Colombo and Regions                      8.0      31.3       39.3       5.4       17.6      23.0
Tandem Exchanges                         1.3       5.1        6.4       1.4        3.5       4.9
Cable Plant (Regions)                        7.6        6.1      13.7        9.8      19.5       29.3
Exchange Rehabilitation                      1.2        2.7       3.9        1.2       4.0        5.2
Telegraph Equipment                          0.8        1.8       2.6        0.0       (.0        0.(
Technical Assistance                         0.0        2.2       2.2        0.1       3.9        4.0
Base Cost                                   18.9      49.2       68.11
Physical Contingencies                       1.9        2.4       4.3
Price Contingencies                          5.2        5.4      10.6
SUIBTOTAL|      26.0      57.0       83.0      17.9       48.5      66.4
ADB-FINANCED COMPONENTS
International Facilities                     3.5       11.4      14.9        6.3      12.4       18.7
Trunk Transmission Network                   4.3       17.6      21.9       10.2      20.2       30.4
Information Systems                          0.6       2.1        2.7        0.0       ().0       ()
Technical Assistance                         0.2        0.7       0.9        0.0       0.8        0.8
Base Cost                            |       8.6      31.8       40.4
Physical Continigencies                      0.8       3.1        4.0
Price Contingencies                          1.8       5.3        7.1
SUlBTOTALI      11.2      40.2       51.5      16.5       33.4      49.9
COMPONENTS FUNDED BY OTHER SOURCES
National Switching Center                    1.(        3.9       4.9        (.0      12.2       12.2
Cable Plant and Technical Assistance         5.3       32.3      37.6       24.8      24.5       49.3
Spur Transmission Links                      1.5        7.5       9.0        5.4       0.(        5.4
Subscriber Terminals                         0.6       4.2        4.8       15.0       (.0       15.0
Building and Stores                          1.8       0.4        2.2        1.6       0.0        1.6
TA for Planning and Management               0.(        0.9       (.9        0.0       0.7        0.7
Base Cost                                   10.2      49.2       59.41
Physical Contingencies                       1.0       2.5        3.5
Price Contingencies                          2.4       4.4        6.8
SUBTOTALI       13.6      56.1       69.7      46.8       37.4      84.2
TOTAL BASE COST|      37.7      130.2     167.9
Total Physical Contingencies                 3.7       8.1       11.8
Total Price Contingencies                    9.4       15.1      24.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST             50.8     153.4      204.2      81.2      119.3     200.5
Note: At appraisal, total costs included US$28 million in taxes and dutics.
Estimated total local costs include USS50 million in taxes and duties.
Source: SLTL, November 1998



- 19-
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$ Millions)
Appraisal Estimate                Actual/Latest Estimate
Financial Sources         Local    Foreign                 Local    Foreign
Costs      Costs  I  Total       Costs      Costs         Total
IDA                              0.0       57.0       57.0         0.0       48.5       48.5
ADB                              0.0       40.0       40.0         0.0       33.4       33.4
OECF                             7.2       36.9       44.1         0.0       24.5       24.5
France/AT&T (l)                  0.0        4.4        4.4         0.0       12.2       12.2
UNDP/ITU                         0.0        1.0         1.0        0.1        0.6        0.7
SLT                             40.9        0.0       40.9        66.1        0.1       66.2
Subscribers                      2.7        4.8        7.5        15.0        0.0       15.0  (2)
GOSL                             0.0        9.2        9.2         ---         ---        ---
TOTAL                           50.81    153.31    204.11         81.21    119.31    2-00-.5
(I) The national switching center was funded by AT&T. not France as expectcd at appraisal.
(2) Estimated, as no records are available.
Note: French funding has been excluded and subscriber funding of terminal equipment included,
which explains differences between the above table and SLTL's table in Appendix E.
Source: SLTL - November 1998



- 20 -
Table 9: Economic and Financial Rate of Return (ERR & FRR) Re-estimates
At the time of appraisal, SLT's international traffic was so congested that no meaningful increase In
international traffic and revenues could be expected without investments in new facilities. The
congestion is SLT's long-distance network was nearly as bad. The SAR's ERR and FRR estimates
were, therefore, based on the assumption that all increases in internationial revenues were incremiiental
to the project, even if originated from subscribers connected outside the project. Simiilarly, it was
assumed that 60% of domestic long-distance revenue would not have been possible without the new
facilities provided under the ADB-financed component of the project. The experienice durinlg the
project period supports the SAR assumptions and these have, therefore, also been used for the re-
estimates of ERR and FRR.
The ERR and FRR calculations are also based on informationi from  SLTL's FY97 and earlier
accounts, financial projections for FY98, project costs as provided by SLTL, and the followilg
simplified assumptions:
(a)    incremental proiect revenues equal SLT's average local revenlue per subscriber times
the number of subscribers connected under the project, plus 100% of increillemetal
international revenues and 60% of other incremental long-distance revelnues. The per-
subscriber average from SLT's FY98 projections has also been used for subsequent
years. Connection fees have been taken as incomiie wheni collected. Appendix A, aide-
memoire dated May 1, 1998, Attachment 3, describes SLTL's tariff changes as from
1998;
(b)    incremental proiect operating expenditures equal SLT's average cost per subscriber for
subscribers connected under the project plus 60%  of other SLT operatingb cost
increases. The average for FY98 has also been used for subsequent years;
(c)    a useful project life of 20 years has been assumed and no residual value has been
considered;
(d)    incremental proiect cost and revenue have been estimated in constanit 1998 US$ using
the average unweighted SLR/US$ exchange rate for each year and the US GDP
deflator. Cost and benefit streamiis are assumed to remaini constant in real terms as
from year 2000;
(e)    for ERR calculations, custom duties have been excluded from and subscriber costs for
terminal equipment added to capital expenditures. The duty on telecommunications
revenues (25% GST up to 1998 and 12.5% thereafter) has been added to revenues;
(f)    no shadow pricing for labor has been applied for ERR calculations as the project
implementation and subsequent operation mostly require technically qualified staff, for
which there is no surplus in Sri Lanka; and
(g)    for FRR calculation, SLTL's projected income tax has been taken as a cost, the
duty on revenue (para. (e) above) deducted from income, and other taxes and
Based on the above assumptions, the following cost and benefit streams (in constant 1998 USS) were
constructed:



Table 9
Page 2
- 21 -
Incr. Oper.                   Income
Capitail Cost    Expend.    Incr. Revenues     Tax   i__ Net Benefits
FY     ERR    FRR    ERR/FRR    ERR   FFRR             RR   L  ERR         FRR
1992    5.9     8.1                                               (5.9)      (8.1)
1993    8.5    11.7                                               (8.5)     (11.7)
1994   42.8    55.5        4.6       16.0     12.8     0.8       (31.4)     (48.1)
1995   40.8    52.5       11.3       37.9    31.1       1.6      (14.2)     (34.3)
1996   36.5    43.4       21.2      70.5     56.4      3.3        12.8      (11.5)
1997   14.5    11.7       37.3     121.3    97.0       5.8        69.5      42.2
1998   21.8    13.5       64.4     192.2    170.8      10.3      106.0      82.6
1999    7.5               80.5     232.9   207.0       11.8      144.9      114.7
2000-151                   92.4      266.0   236.4      14.7      173.6      129.3
Rate of Return'  64.2%/o    41.4%/4.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original     Revised
Covenant  Present   fulfillment   fulfillment              Description of
Agreement        Section         type     status       date         date                    covenant                               Comments
DCA               2.02(b)          I         C        12/31/91                The Borrower to open and maintain in A special dollar account was opened in the
dollars a special account in a bank under Central Bank and authorized signatures
conditions satisfactory to IDA.        forwarded to IDA in December 1991.
DCA                3.04            5         C        06/30/93     05-06/93   The Borrower shall (a) by June 30, 1993, The  institutional  arrangements   were
review   with  IDA   the  institutional reviewed in May/June 1993 as part of a
arrangements for SLT and SLTA and their sector,  Strategic   Options   for  the
relation to MOPT, and (b) thereafter, as a Telecommunications Sector.   SLT  was
result of said review, implement the agreed converted  into   a   government-owned
improvements.                          company in September 1996, the 1991
Telecommunications Act amended and
SLTA converted into a more autonomous
commission (TRC) in 1997.
DCA                3.06            2        CP                                The Borrower shall cause all its agencies to All subscribers, whetlher Government or
pay in full, within three months of receipt, private, are required to pay the bills within  i
their telecommunications bills.        14 days after receipt. Timiely payments by
Government agencies is being pursued by
the Treasury.
DCA               3.07(a)          5         C        12/30/91                The Borrower to establish, by December 31, A Cabinet Appointed Tender Board was
1991, and to maintaini thereafter, a tender established.
board  with  membership  and  powers
satisfactory to IDA, to facilitate efficient and
economical procurement of goods, works,
and services for SLT.
DCA                4.01            1         C       April 30Of  August31 of I.  The Borrower to lave the records and SLT  has provided IDA  with unaudited
each year    each year      accounts for all expenditures with reports within four montlhs of the end of the
respect to which withdrawals from the FY.
C'redit Account were made on the basis
of SOEs and those for the Special
Account for each FY audited by
independent auditors acceptable to
IDA.



Original      Revised
Covenant  Present   fulfUilment   fulfillment                 Description of
Agreement         Section         type      status       date          date                     covenant                                 Comments
2.  The Borrower to furnish to IDA within Audit reports have been submitted up to
four months after the end of FY the FY97.  IDA  agreed to receiving audit
audit report, including  a  separate reports  within  eight months, provided
opinion  of the auditors about the unaudited accounts were received within
reliability of the financial statements, four months of the close of SLT's FY.
procedures, and internal controls.
DCA            Sched. 3, Sec. 11    10         C                                 The Borrower to employ or cause SLT to Consultants have been retained.
employ consultants satisfactory to IDA, in
order to assist in carrying out the Project.
PA                  3.03            13         C                                 SLT  to  take  out and  maintain  with SLT's Board decided to insure only main
responsible  insurers,  or  make  other exchanges and set aside reserves (self-
provision satisfactory to IDA, for insurance insurance) for other SLT equipment. This is
against such risks and in such amounts as acceptable and consistent with  industry
shall be consistent with appropriate practice. practices.
PA                4.01(b)(i)         I         C                                 SLT to have its records, accounts, and SLT appointed the Auditor General, who
financial statements for each fiscal year was acceptable to  IDA.   SLT's  1995
t'J
audited by independent auditors acceptable accounts were audited by a private audit    S
to IDA.                                  firm'.
PA               4.01(b)(ii)         9         C       August31 of               SLT to furnish to IDA, not later than eight See 4.01 above.
each year                months after the end of the year: (a) certified
copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited, and (b) the repoit of such
audit.
PA                 4.02(a)           2         C                                 SLT shall producc an annual return of not
less than 15% of the average net fixed assets
in operation. Before March 31 of each year,
SLT   to  inform   IDA   whether  this
requirement would be met in respect of such
year and the following FY.
PA                  4.03            2          C                                  SLT shall generate from intemal sources not
less than  25%   of its annual  capital
expenditures.  SLT to inform IDA, before
March 31 in each of its FYs, whether it
would meet this requiremenit and take all
necessary measures to meet requirement.
I. SLT's 1995 accounts were audited by the Auditor General as w%ell as by a private auditor in preparation for its conversion into a company. As from SLT's conversion into a company, SLTL, in 1996,
SLTL's accounlts are audited only by a private auditor.
Table 10- Page 2



PA                   4.04              2          C                                    SLT to maintain at all times adequate funds
to meet its requirements for operating costs,
debt service, working capital, and capital
investment.
PA              Sched., para. 1        5          C                                    SLT shall establish and maintain a staffing
ratio satisfactory to IDA.
PA             Sched., para 2(a)       13        NC                                    SLT shall undertake a study under terms of SLT has no cost-center based accounting.
reference satisfactory to IDA, of a cost- ADB was going to finance a new accounting
center based, performance related  profit system, but this never materialized.
sharing staff remuneration system.
PA             Sched., para. 2(b)      13         CP        12/31/91                   By December 31, 1991, SLT to furnish the See Sched. 2(a) above.
result of the study agreed in Sched. (2)(a) to
the Borrower and IDA for review.
PA             Sched., para. 2(c)      13         CP        06/30/92                   By  June  30,  1992,  SLT   to  begin See Sched. 2(a) above.
implementation of the recommendations in
the above study (Sched. 2(a)), as agreed
with the Borrower and IDA.
PA              Sched.. para. 6                   C         06/30/92                   SLT shall, as of June 30. 1992, niaintain its During  the  project  period,  receivables
accounts receivables below the equivalent of equaled about 5 months of billing, mainly       t
three months of billing.                   due to the cancellation of a billing system to
be funded by ADB. Only towards the end
of the  project by  mid-1998, after the
installation of a SLT-funded billing system,
were receivables brought down to 3 months.
Co%venant types:                                                                                                       Prcscint Statis:
I. =  Accounts audits                                    8.  - Indigenous peopte                                      C        covenant complied wilh
2. =  Financial performance rceenue  generation  from    9.  - Monitoring. re\view and reporting                     C      =) complied with after delay
beneficiaries                                    1(0   = Project impicilientation) not covered by categories 1-9  CP    complied with partially
3. =  Flow and utilization of project f'unds            11.  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or otlier resource    NC  =not complied with
4.     Counterpart funding                                      allocation
S.     Management aspects ol' the project or CxCCLtioLg   12.  = Sectoral     or       cross-sectoral     policy/
agency                                                  regulatory/inIstitUtional action
6. =  Enrvironmental covenants                          13.    Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlemienit
Table 10- Page 3



- 25 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Statements
Statement number and title                 Comments on lack of compliance
Bank Operational Manual statements (OD and OP/BP) have been complied with
Table 12: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Stage of            Planned                   Revised                   Actual
project cycle   Weeks       US$ (000)     Weeks       US$ (000)     Weeks       US$ (000)
Preparation to                                                         82.5        267.8
appraisal
Appraisal                                                              31.4         66.8
Negotiations                                                           12.7         28.0
through Board
approval
Supervision                                                            89.7        254.5
Completion                                                     _       15.5         35.0
TOTAL             n.a.         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.         231.8        652.1



Table 13: Bank Resources - Missions
Performa nce rating
Number               Specialized staff
Stage of    Month/       of       Days in        skills      Implementation    Development
project cycle    year    persons    field    represented (*)        status          objectives                Types of problems
Identification    Feb/88     2         13     FA, TE                  NA               NA
Preparation    Oct/88        I         10     FA                      NA               NA
Preparation    Mar/89        1         5      FA                      NA               NA
Preparation    Nov/89        2         10     FA, TE                  NA               NA
Preappraisal    Mar/90       2         12     FA, TE                  NA               NA
Appraisal      May/90        2         15     FA, TE                  NA               NA
Supervision I   Aug/91       2         4      FA, TE                   I                 I
Supervision 2   Feb/92       1         5      FA                       2                 1         Slow procurement and TA progress
Supervision 3   Sep/92       1         6      TE                      NA               NA
Supervision 4   Dec/92       1         9      FA                       2                 1         Slow procurement and studies progress
Supervision 5   May/93       2         12     FA, TE                   2                 1         Slow procurement and studies progress
Supervision 6   Jul/93       1         7      TE                      NA               NA
Supervision 7   Nov/93       1         8      TE                       2                 1         Slow procurement and studies progress
Supervision 8   Feb/94       2         10     FA, TE                   2                 1         Slow procurement and studies progress
Supervision 9   Jan/95       2         14     FA, TP                   S                HS
Supervision 10  May/95       I                TE                       U                S          Slow procurement and studies progress
Supervision 11  Nov/95       3         10     FA, TE, TP               U                S          Slow procurement and billing delays
Supervision 12  Feb/96       1         10      FA                     NA               NA          Slow procurement progress
Supervision 13  May/96       2         5       FA, TP                  S                S
Supervision 14  Sep/96       3         16      FA. TE, TP              S                SH
Supervision 15  Mar/97       3         6       FA, TE, TP              S                HS
Supervision 16  Aug/97       2         12     FA, TP                   S                HS
Supervision 17  Apr/98       I         14     TE                      NA               NA
Supervision 18  Jun/98       2         8      FA, TP                   S                HS
(*) FA: Financial Analyst TE: Telecommunications Engineer TP: Telecommunications Policy Specialist



- 27 -
Appendix A
Mission's Aide-Memoire
and Project Operation Plan
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-28 -
Sri L:ink.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS REGULATION.9 D.LD PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORMnt
TECHNICAL ASSISTAINCE PROJECT
(Credit 2837-CE)
Mid Term Review Mission
and
SECOND TELECOMMUNNICATIONS PROJECT
(Credit 2l49-CE)
Supervision Mfission
Aide-Memoire
I.      An IDA mission :onsis-inz of MIessrs. RPr.n S.nyh. Mihkel Serg,o and Sumith Pflaciriva
v sired Colombo From Mav :s co June 2. 1998  co  underzake a ivid-7trtn Review OF dile
L--lecommunications Re.uiation and Public Enterprise R-.form Techinical Assisance Project and
super vise dlie comple:icn of te Second TeFecommnunic~-.ons Project. hris was a continuation of
Mr. David Delrados (,Iec.-mmunicarions Enrgineer) m.isSiotI of April 19 cc.ay2. 1998. The
A;ide MVlemoires dared May 1i 1998 'or the eariier mission was distributed secarareiv.
.       Thle mission met with oficials from the iVinis=1 of Posts. Telecommunications and the
Me:dia (MOPTMi). the T-cornmunicacions Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka (TRC), Sci
Lanka Telecom  L:d. (SLTL). and the Public Enrer=rises Reform  Commission (PERC) and
odiers. A list of persons met is in Atachment 1.
.   This aide-menoire refrects the findinas and recommendations of dhe mnission and is
subject to confirmacion bv iDA's mana:ement.
Telecommunications Regulatfon and Public Enrerprise reform TA Project
Project Objectives
' The mission unde:took che Mid-Term  EReview  of the project and evaluated the
ceve!opment objectives as .e7ec:ed in the projeczt Tecnnical AAnnex (R-eoi! No. T-6730-CE.
Mar:h  1996). Tihe objectives o( che projecc are ro: (a) assist TRC in irs transition to a more
zndecendenr reculacorv Comm;ission and swrenarhen its re-ularory authoritv: (tb) assis TRC in (i)
im-rovin, its administrarive and technical caoabiiicies co olan and controil he usc of radio
i.-:uency spec:rum. and (ii) establishing a computere.-d  radio fre-uenyv rranautne:nc and
monitoring system: and (c)          cCiii2at  te divesciture or government owned ente:r,rises. including
SLT. by strengthening the te_chnical and administra:ive :z,accitv of PERC. inese obje,:ives are
s;a.l relevant and onic: the -rojec: is compieted. those ooje;cives vAill have bee:n achieved..
TRC COhvPO.NE.NT
As stated in dic Mav. 1. l9q8 aide-memoire  re:ent sector policy and regulatorv
ceve!opmencs have been ve-v positive. With the appoincme:t of a neGv DGT. it is expected char
TRC's intscitutioIal and regulatory development will contcnue in a satisfacrory manner. Further.
somee ntajor initiatives have be-n taken by TRC. cn.. tle: i 998 tariff determination. staiing an1d



-29 -
2
retention   of consultants for interconnection and  `6discue resolutiotn procedures. The sector
oerformance remains verY dynamic with fast subsc_riber arowrl from all the senice providers.
:.g.. SLTL - 352.000 subscribers; WLL ope.ators -  8.000: and mobilc c:lluiar  li.OO as oF
April 1998.
Frequency Management and Monitoring System
6.      The evaluacion report and award recommendarion hias been submitted co IDA For its -no
objecrion  and IDA's resoonse is expected shortly. *c %was nored thiat the cost escimates in the
project Technical Annex (Report No. T-6730-CE. Nlarcih 1996) were on ;he hiuth side -or the
r.MMIS (approx. USSS.S million). As a result there couid be cost savings for chis component as
che lowest evaluated bid pric: is about USS1.; million. Furthermore. TRC has recuesred a
reduction in scope ofche F-hMMS concracr as de:ailed in zhe MOPTIM letter OF :\tv 13. 1998 for
security  reasons. The mission indicared that this  r-educrion  in scope should rsui in a
proporzional price reduction. i.e.. unit prices are mainairnied and  cornmon costs" reduc:d in a
.asoniably pro-rated ;asnion.
*.    .t ie mission ac.eed wich TRC chat it would  rmiediarely inform IDA on how it intends
co utiize thce savings on this component after concluding netoriation with FUMMS cunnac.:cr. As
the procure-nent of the FMMIAS has be:n delayed by abcur six months. it was agree  diar TRC
wouid expedite contract ne2ociarions and seek a shor.-r FfIMS implementation period (rather
chan the currenc I 8 months) to ensure the erricient use oF *he Credit before the December 1999
csos Ing dare.
S.      TRC  informed the missicn that it had com.menced precaratory wort in die Negombo
*fxed station sire for instailaion of the FlMS equipmenth. iie FMIUMS contraC: will inciude on-
the-job rraininSz for TRC staiff on opemation and maintenance. The mission reomrnended that
TR.C also deve;op a formal training program on all rhe rezularory aspects in frrecency policy
azid pianning. The MioU with Indusryv Canada (IC) provides an opportunirt For this parailel
craining of TRC smaff (para 9).
Technical Assistance
9.      TRC's technical :ssistance is curentiv being ir-=iernenred under the .'loU -.ich IC. For
the n2nar-ment or che activiries under zhe MOU. a Financial and Adminiswrastive A e            Was
Finalized between TRC and Industry Canada (IC) annd  aoroved by IDA. The Finziiciai and
Acmmn.isstrarive funcriclls o;;the MioU have bee-n delear e   to Commoniwea;lth or Letrning. As a
next step. TRC and IC have co prepare a DeralWed Work Plan setting out che re ssarc. tzsss to
be joinciv undertaken. the anticicared level of etfort. an .-related expenditure .orec: ss for the
re.-: twelve months Tihe mission recommends tlat the wvcrk plan be implemented on an urgent
basis to screnuthen TRC-s institutional and regulatory capacity. Furthermore. considerinz the
Credir ciosinta in Decemiber 1999. there is no room for ce--Vs.
10.     Consuiraltcy  services on interconnecrion  and    Icernatre  dispute resolution (ADR)
procedures has alreadv bee:i initiated under the  ,to(' in Mday. [998. Thiis is an urc-nt area uf
technical assiscatce in view of the unresolved reveniue sharinii. issues benween SLiT and the two
W LL operators. Some initial ground work has been done. Based on the awre:d proposal. the



-30 -
expecred outputs are: (i) The SLTL-WLL agreement. (ii) the SLTL-Mobile Agreemelnt. and (iii)
ADR training of TRC staff.
Cost Study
!1.    TRC informed the mission that it intends to undertake a comprehensive cost studv and
develop re-ulatory expertise in .dealing with cross-subsidies. The mission supported this
initiative as future tariff dtexrmination and rebalancin.- by TRC requires an understandinit of
costs. which are currently unavailable to TRC.
PERC COMPONENT
(PERC info. needed)
Credit Closin-
I.    As smared in the proje- documents. the Credic closing date is December 3i. 1999. The
mission pointed our the nec:ssity to complete ail ecuoment procurement. installation and
consultancies prior to this date. The eventual savines in.the RMMIS component could possibly be
used for other purposes. subjec t-o IDA agreement. after the signin, of rhe FNIMIS contract.
Implementation and Disbursement Schedules
13.    Tlhe mission discussed project implemenration and disbursenent schedules with TRC
and PERC and up dated schedules are attached (Attachment  & 3).
Special Account
i 4.*   It was noted that the project Special Accounr has been drawn down to abour USS45.000
-without a replenishment request being made. This forced TRC to make a USS7.000 payment
out of its own resourc:s for rechnical assistance under the MoU with IC. This is a situation verv
similar to the one mentioned in oaras. ;6 and 37 of the Aide Menmoire daEed April 1. 1997. Given
that TRC- will be utilizing the Special Account frequently in the next eichreen months to
irmiemnent the  MolJ the mission  recommended  close  coordination  berween  the two
irmolementina aaencies.
F .    The mission repeated its recommendarions as of April 1. 1997 and also recommended
Cha T RC closeiy monitor the special account on a monchiv basis.. Furthermore. it was axreed
that TRC would retain rhe necessary assistance to keep -he Special Account records up to date to
ensure timely repienishment of the account. The Sri Lanka IDA Field Offic: will under tke a
sample review of SOE documenration.
Accounts and Audits
IDA has rece.ved. although late (TRC * Seotc:nber 1997 and PERC - March 1998).
T.C s and PERC's audited accounts for 1996. The 1997 audited accounts were sent .or audit in
19arh I998. bur cie Auditor General is not likely to finalize liis audit report by June 30. 1998 as
required by thie Credit Agreement. It was agreed thac TRC and PERC request rhe Auditor



--    - --3 1- 
4
General to ,ive their audic preferential treatment to provide (DA with audited accounts within
the agreed rime limits.
SECOND TELECOMMiUICATIONS PRO.IECT
(Credit 2249-CE)
1 7.    The mission reviewed with SLTL the expecred payments under the on"oin011 U contrcs
tunded by IDA. To ensure erriecient use of the Credit funds. given the June 30. 1998 Credir
ciosing date. it was a;reed that SLTL take the necessary steps ro amend the contracts to enable
payments for all moods and services provided to SLTL before the closing date. The mission was
informed tha the rd!evanr amrendments were agreed with thie suppliers and senr to IDA oil June I.
1998.
S.    To ensure che timeiv preparation of the Implementation Completion Repor; (ICR) for die
Project. it was avreed .hat SLTL would provide IDA with a draft Project Evaluationi Repori bv
Se_tember I. 1998. Derails For chis recort were provided bv the April/iMayv 1998 IDA missiotI
.9.    Arter appoining a private ex;ernal auditor. IDA has received SLTL's audited t"inancial
sa-reIentrs withini areec rime limits. SLTL expects the audited accounts for 1997 to be sent to
IDA before the end of June 1998.
0.    SLTh has now caugiht uQ with the delays in billing and current bills are collec:ed within
azreed three months. 7he balance of old uncollected bills, however. makes the total oursmandinsz
balance exceed the e-uivaienc of five monchs of billing. As a private companv. SLTL is able ro
wrice off uncollec.abie bills. If SLTL foilows its exzterital auditors recommendation co write off
,D,. 1.500 million for old bills. SLTL  would reduce irs balance of outsrandimn, account
receivables to less than che equivalent of tlree mondts of billing.
Colombo. Sri Lanka- June:. 1998
R.;.t Sinchti
I oN tISASEn
World Sank



- 32 -
Att7chment I
Sri Lanka
TELECOMMUNICATTONS REGULATION AND PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM
TECHNNICAL ASSISTAINCE PRO.JECT
(Credir 2837-CE)
Project Supervision
(Mav 25-June 2. 1998)
Persons Mer
k .- !>aive   . ~-: F .  ::.-1;emitIheS                   l      ;@-  F   TelepboneL   ....K.  . <.F.t2) 77
1Ylinisrrv of Post Telecommunicztions and che Media (MOTM):
-Mr. K. C. Loz,eswamn          Scr:m.-rv MOPTM
Telecommunic2rions Reguiatory Commission (TRC):
?:-of. Rohan Samarajiva         0GT and CEO                      689-336         689-341
Mr. Radley Dissayanak:          Dv. Direcror, Soecial Projects    639-343        639-4.1
Imr. M. S. M Suhair             C'IiefAccounrant                  689-350
Public Enterprises Refiorm Commission (PERC):
M4s. A. De Soysa               Dy. DG. PERC
Mtr. P. Wijetunge               Fir, AnalysrdCorporare Planner    338-756       3i56-tt6
Sri Lanka Telecom Ltd. (SLTL):
Mir. P. Karitsuma               C-3                               335010         42400
Mr. T. Saka-a-mi                COOI'CTO                          4247I52        424754
IMr. M. A.narasinghe            HG'NPL 2 Cons.                    i50-210        ';;432
Mr. O.S. P-rera                 Advisor
Mlr. C. Gnanaindran            r;SCo.SL                           350-118        348-049
Mrs. Kumudini De Silva          'SiE.                             ;50_98         398.096
ERD:
Nlr. F. Mir. F. Mobide-n        DC. ERD
T CIL. india (Local Network Controcror):
fIr. P.S. Gove-r                Chie! PrOjec Manager            69;306          697306
ISunrel
MIr. Jan Camobe!l               Na.'1z>nz , Dir--eor              74000          7 '8000
MtcCarthv T crnult
Mir. Lome P. Salzrnan           Consulmnt                         416 6017867,   116 868 0673
'-Ir. !Marc Zohar               Consuitanc                        .116 601 7923   416 868 n67i



-.    -..                          .33 -
6
Attuchment 2
SRI LALNKA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS REGULATION ANtD PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM
TECHNi4ICAL ASSISTANCE PROJCT
Project Implementatoa Pllan
Projecr Activiry v             199-           1996 -        1997 1      1          19
__ _ _ _ ___3 ,   1   -'1   1  J ' 1   41   11  2H *  jI    41   U  '    31 '.
I   Loan Effectiveness
' SLTA____ _I
. IProject preparation
I '. Preparation of speric:acions. bidding_
docuzmenirs and TOR                                                     _
Selec:ion/Rerention oF consulman       s              .
rL  Tecinica2 assistanc: on sc-.or                                  . _         I     _ _ -       _
re-'.zacion                                                                       I
5. Smaff Training
I~ - -      !  i -           t- ..- 
6. Civil Works and Power Suplyv
.. Equipmenr(Fi91MS) procurl-Ieir...........   
S. F.MMS de{ivery. insmailation and
Eestim,                                                             ||||||
Operation  tv: Naintenance suocor,                                             |
PERC
1. Selec::on/Rerenrion of consultmnEs
-- Tec.nic=L assistanc:                                   I                              j
- .S;atmfTinin-                                           !i
. Ot'.ic: Equipment                  I                                |



-34 -
7
Arrachsnent i
SRI LANKA
TEL ECOMMUNICATIONS RFCULATION azND PllBLIC FNTERPR1SP REFORYI
TIECHNIC.AL ASSlSTA4!CE PRO.IE
Schedule ofDishurt-ernents
(TJSS Million 
.~~~0
1996
June30. 1996 ................   Nil
1997
December 31. 1996 .........    Nil
June 30. 1991 .................    Nil
(998
December; 3. 199 ._ ......--   Nil
June30. 1998 .................   0.5
1999                                               l
Decwmber 31. 1998         -.5.          0.55       I              3i.0
June 30, 1999             5.0           1.35         6.35         9.40
2Q000I
December 3 1. 1999        ^.0           1.1          3.1          12.1
_          _               . _ _n_ _\_           _   _    _
trn:ririn\retAaidmem.mtr



- 35 -
Sri Lanka
TELECOMMUNICATIONS REGULATION AND PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM
TECENICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2837-CE)
Supervision Mission
Aide-Memoire
1.    An IDA mission consisting of Mr. David Deigado, Telecommunications Engineer, visited
Colombo from April 19 to May 2, 1998 to supervise the progress of the Telecommunications
Regulation and Public Enterprise Reform Technical Assistance Project. A second part of this
mission has been planned to take place by the end of May, 1998 to review policy, regulatory and
financial aspects. Mr. Sumith Pilapitya, from IDA's Resident Mission in Colombo, also participated
in the mission.
2.     The mission met with officials from the Ministry bf Posts, Telecommunications and the
Media (MOPTM), the Telecommunications Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka (TRC), Sri Lanka
Telecom Ltd. (SLTL), the Public Enterprises Reform Commission (PERC), the Govemment of
Canada (Department of Industry), and Industry Canada (IC). A list of persons met is in Attachment
1.
3.    This aide-memoire reflects the findings and opinions of the mission and is subject to
confirmation by IDA's management.
Recent DeveloDments in the Telecommunications Sector
4.    Prof. Rohan Samarajiva was appointed Director-General of Telecommunications and CEO of
TRC on January 1, 1998. The Secretary to the Minister in charge of telecommunications is the ex-
officio Chairman of the Commission and other three members have been appointed by the Minister
from among persons distinguished in the fields of law, finance and management. Candidates for
some of the main positions in TRC have been identified (Media Relations, Policy and International
Relations, Technical Division, Economic Division and Legal Division) and others have been
advertised. It is expected that all vacancies at these levels will be filled within the next three months.
5.    TRC staffing will proceed gradually, as need arises, to complete the organization approved
by the Commission (Attachment 2). Salaries and total staff were approved by the Cabinet in
February 1998. The absorption of SLTA staff into TRC. was implemented with effect from April 30,
1997 for staff who did not belong to a transferable government service, and with effect from
February 1, 1998 for those in a transferable service.
6.     TRC finances its operations (including staff salaries) from revenue earned in the form of
license fees. Capital expenditure, once approved by Government, could also be met from this
revenue. In this regard it is important to ensure that the 1999 budget required for the Frequency
Management System (which will not be implemented entirely during 1998) and other project
components will be made available.
7.    On September 25, 1996, SLT was incorporated as a publiv company limited by shares and its
functions, properties, assets and liabilities were taken over by Sri Lanka Telecom Ltd. with effect on
that date. As a consequence of the privatization process where NTT (Japan) took a 35% stake in the
company, on August 5, 1997 TRC modified SLTL's license to include, among other provisions, the
services that SLTL will be permitted to provide and a maximum exclusivity period (until August 5,
2002) for:
(i)    basic fixed wire telephone services, and



-36 -
Sri Lanka - Telecommunications Regulation and Public Enterprise Reform TA Project
(ii)   intemational telephone services in and from Sri Lanka.
SLTL is licensed to provide telephone, telegraph and telex services, data transmission, maritime
mobile service, intemational TV transmission, intemational photo telegram service, voice cast, IDS,
INMARSAT, circuit leasing, and WLL (800 MHz).
8.    The agreement with NTT includes managing SLTL, subject to a set of performance
incentives:
The fee that SLTL must pay to NTT for the years 1997, 1998, 1999, and 2000 will be based
on achieving the following roll out on the number of urban lines as of December 31, 1996:
21%, 42%, 73%, and 104%.
These targets are cumulative and will result in the fee being reduced by 5% for each whole
percentage point by which the actual increase is below the target.
The targets for rural lines are not cumulative and will result in a similar reduction of 2.5%:
14%, 18%. 25%, and 24%.
The fee for 2001 and 2002 will be based on achieving qualitative targets such as clearing of
waiting lists, increase in the Call Completion Rate, decrease in the Fault Rate and increase in
the Fault Clearance Rate.
No universal service obligations were imposed for the duration of the agreement.
9.    SLTL's management agreement guarantees that the minimum annual tariff increases on a
basket of domestic services, including connection charges, will be 25%, 25%, 20%, 15%, and 15%,
respectively (including inflation) in each of the 5 years of SLTL's monopoly on intemational
services. There must be a reduction in international call charges with a view to rebalancing
intemational and domestic charges to cost basis. In the recent determination of SLTL tariffs for 1998
(Attachment 3), the Commission signaled its intention to protect the low users by retaining a
concessionary rate when the total usage does not exceed 200 units a month. This is estimated to
result in lower payments from about one-third of SLTL's subscribers.
10.   The 1998 tariff determination also conveys the Commission' resolve to improve the quality
of service as rates go up. The Commission ordered that subscribers who pay the installation charge
must be provided telephone service within 30 days; otherwise, the subscribers are entitled to a
complete refund or a credit of Rs. 1,000 for every week without service. Also, the monthly rental
increase (from Rs. 100 to Rs. 180) is conditional on 150% of it being credited to a subscriber who has
been deprived of service for more than seven consecutive calendar days. Furthermore, TRC has
assumed its function to respond to written complaints from the consumers or the public in general
when an attempt to get satisfaction directly from the operator has failed.
11.   Future changes to unit durations detailed in Attachment 3 will be approved by TRC subject
to SLTL introducing an improved message accounting system capable of providing detailed billing
on a per-minute basis in 15% of the exchanges by April 1, 1999, in 50% of the exchanges by April 1,
2000, and in all exchanges by April 1, 2002.
12.   The WLL operators are subject to an annual "rural service entrance fee" of Rs. 5 million
(about US$80,000) for each switching area without at least 10 permanent working subscribers after
the end of year 2000. TRC also requested the operators to introduce programs that benefit groups of
limited spending power. SLTL responded offering an installment plan for the extremely high
connection charges (as much as US$800) in the rural areas. The installation of more payphones,
priority fault clearance for payphones, and bulk discount for calls originating from private payphones
are other measures that TRC is discussing with the operators to alleviate the lack of residential
telephones. In fact, mainly due to the contribution of a second operator, the number of telephone
booths increased 27% per year during the last two years.
Page 2



-37.
Sri Lanka - Telecommunications Regulation and Public Enterprise Reform TA Project
13.    Although SLTL has a monopoly on the provision of basic and international services, a
significant degree of competition has been introduced in the telecommunications sector. Twenty six
operators (see Attachment 4) are licensed for other services. The country has other two basic fixed
(wireless) providers, four mobile service operators, five paging operators and one operator for
trunked radio. Six facilities-based providers compete for international data transmission and one
infrastructure provider has been licensed to lease circuits to other telecom and broadcast operators.
14.    Hosting of two regional conferences in April/May 1998 is an activity that will bring
important benefits to TRC in termns of international and domestic profile and effective coordination
and collaboration with other regionai regulatory bodies. The Meeting of APT's Telecommunications
Working Group for South Asia (TELEWORK-S) on April 29-30 was organized to review proposals
for netvork development, introduction of new services and technology, private sector interaction, and
accounting rate reform. A Meeting of the South Asian Telecommunications Regulators' Council
(SATRC), on May 1-3, will cover government policy on regulation and privatization and
mechanisms for cooperation among members of the SATRC.
Status of Proiect Comnonents
TRC COMIPONENT
Technical Assistance
15.    An MOU between TRC and IC was signed on September 29, 1997 on cooperation in
telecommunications regulatory activities and technology transfer.  The contemplated areas of
cooperation and the specific activities are indicated in Attachment 5. It is intended that any projects
which are identified as a result of the MOU will be eligible for IDA funding. Some of the activities
in TRC's Work Plan for 1998 (Attachment 6) could make use of this mechanism.
16.    For the management of the activities under the MOU, a Financial and Administrative
Agreement has been finalized between TRC and IC and will be submitted to IDA soon together with
a Detailed Work Plan setting out the tasks to be jointly undertaken during the next twelve months, the
anticipated level of effort, and related expenditure forecasts. The tasks were reviewed by TRC and
the mission in a meeting with representatives of the Department of Industry, Canada, and IC where it
was indicated that they should also address the areas described in Attachment 3 of the Technical
Annex of the Project (Report No. T-6730-CE) and in particular the tariff study which should have
been completed by January 1998 as per previous agreement with IDA.
17.   IC delegates the fmancial and administrative functions of the MOU to the Commonwealth of
Learning. (COL), which will establish a Trust Account dedicated solely to the management of funds
for the implementation of the agreed tasks. For the performance of the services, IC will use
Govemment of Canada personnel and consultants whose names and qualifications will be submitted
to TRC for approval.
18.   In anticipation to the approval of the Financial and Administrative Agreement and the
Detailed Work Plan, and upon TRC's request, IC received from McCarthy Tetrault, Canada, a
proposal for consultancy services on interconnection and altemate dispute resolution (ADR)
procedures. This is an urgent area of technical assistance in view of the unresolved issues between
SLTL and the two WLL operators. The interim interconnection agreement of 1996 (extended one
year until November 1998) is perceived as not addressing fairly the revenue sharing between SLTL
and the WLL operators. Highly problematic are also the interconnection issues between SLTL and
the four mobile operators. The proposal includes three outputs: (i) The SLTL-WLL agreement, (ii)
the SLTL Mobile Agreement. and (iii) ADR training of TRC officers. TRC has indicated to IDA its
satisfaction with the proposal. and it is expected that on the basis of the documentation that IC will
submit soon to IDA, a no objection can be communicated and the services can start in May, 1998.
Page 3



-38 -
Sri Lanka - Telecommunications Regulation and Public Enterprise Reformn TA Project
19.    TRC' work plan for 1998 is included in Attachment 6. TRC will keep IDA informed on the
progress of this plan, any modifications to it, and the results obtained from each activity.
20.    In the last two years, TRC has used various sources to finance training programs, seminars
and visits for its staff: UNDP/ITU, APT, IDA, bilateral assistance (India, Japan, US) and local
resources. The mission was provided with a report on training during 1996 and 1997. The contract
for the Frequency Management and Monitoring System (FMMS) will include training on operation
and maintenance, but in addition TRC should develop a formal training program on all the major
regulatory aspects. The proposed cooperation with Canada will provide an excellent opportunity for
on-the-job training.
Procurement of the Frequencv Management and Monitoring System
21.    The decision to award the contract for the F1vfMS has been delayed considerably. Seven
bidders responded on July 11, 1997 to the invitation issued in March 1997. The bids were evaluated
with the assistance of consultants from Teleplan, Norway and the evaluation report was submitted to
the Cabinet Appointed Tender Board on September 11, 1997. The mission was informed that
subsequent clarifications prepared bv the Technical Evaluation Committee would be considered by
the CATB before the expiration of the bids on May 11, 1998 to determine the lowest evaluated
responsive bidder, and that the award recommendation would be submitted to IDA soon thereafter.
PERC COMPONENT
22.    In the period 1995-97, the Government realized about US$500 million in revenues from the
enterprise reform program (see Attachment 7). This sum includes about US$230 million from
SLTL transaction in Augast 1997.
23.    The Government concluded the Air Lanka restructuring program started in august 1995
enabling the company to embark on a US$550 million re-fleeting program and undertake a US$15
million investment to upgrade its catering services. The restructuring of Air Lanka attracted
Emirates airline as a strategic partner through the divestiture of a 40% equity stake in Air Lanka
along with management control. Emirates will manage Air Lanka for a period of 10 years to
implement a long-term business plan, with no management fees. Throughout this period, Emirates
will retain a minimum 30% stake in Air Lanka.
LEGAL COVENANTS AND OTHER AGREEMENTS
24.    A summary of the present status of implementation of the policy for the telecommunications
sector as. described in letter dated February 8, 1996 (included in the Technical Annex of the Project)
is in Attachment 8. The sector reform is proceeding at a fast pace and in line with the expected
program.
25.    Copy of unaudited financial statements (year ending on Dec. 31, 1997) for TRC and PERC
was provided to the mission.
26.    As of March 31. 1998, the level of disbursemnents from the Credit is 18% and it is estimated
that by the end of the year the level will be 25%. The original forecast for IDA's current fiscal year
was 71%.
27.    The mission indicated the need to obtain a new authorization to sign withdrawal applications
and submit specimen signatures of TRC authorized officers. ,
28.    The mission received from TRC a report and other valuable information on the project
progress.
Colombo, Sri Lanka - May 1, 1998
Page 4



-39 -
Attachment 1
Sri Lanka
TELECOMMUNICATIONS REGULATION AND PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM
TECMlNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2837-CE)
Project Supervision
(April 19-May2, 1998)
Persons Met
Ministry of Post, Telecommunications and the Media (MOPTM):
Mr. K. C. Logeswaran       Secretary, MOPTM
Telecommunications Regulatory Commission (TRC):
Prof. Rohan Samarajiva     Director General of         689-336       689-341
Telecommunications and
TRC's Chief Efxecutive
Officer
Mr. Radley Disayanake      Dy. Director, Special Projects  689-343   689-341
Mr. M. S. M Suhair         Chief Accountant            689-350
Public Enterprises Reform Commission (PERC):
Mr. P. Wijetunge           Financial Analyst/Corporate   338-756     326-116
Planner
Sri Lanka Telecom Ltd. (SLTL):
Mr. Norio Asami            Head of Finance Group       350-380      424-754
Mr. M. Amarasinghe         HG/NPL & Const.             350-210      333432
Mr. C. B. R. Perera        HD/Const.                   350-480      348-796
Mr. G. R. Podiralahamy     HD/Nw.PI.                   350-217      441-420
Mr. C. Gnanaindran         HS/Co.St.                   350-218      348-049
Mrs. Kumudini De Silva     HS/Exp.                     350498       398-096
Mr. Thamal Karunaratne     HS/IDA & SIDA               350-343      435-091
Mr. Upali Weerasekara      HS/150K Project             350-511      436-262
Mr. I. B. Lionel           HS/FP & SLT fund            350-511      436-262
Ms. M.D.S.K. Jayalath      Eng. - Local Netw. Project    9-58069
Canada:
Mr. Patrick Julien         Chief, International        613-990-4211  613-990-4215
Development,
Communications and
Information Technologies,
Department of Industry
Mr. Roger Palfreyman       Project Officer, South Asia,   613-990-4299 613-990-4215
Industry Canada



Attachment 2
TIIE C4MMISSION
I   nternlAdiom                              Chairmman                               Secretary to te
. aRela  lMembers(3)                                                         Commis
Director General of TelecommtDnications
AD/MediappRovs                                     I                                                                           A       y Relations  A
(ie Servic                                                        DDiPoliry and
A pDD/Spemial Pring                   Chief Executive Officer (DGT)                  Intemational Relatione             Ia               eal 
AD/Radio Freq y  A Reslogica-                 Senior Director 
Interference  ~~           ltinassRessm rent
|AD/llumnan Resources || AD/Infomiationi &
Mana an ement                                                                           Docunt AD/tc
Drtrehc  Divisio  Dcpt ireorDirector/Econonic Division                                                  Director/Lega
DiretorrecniclAD-Assistantivsio DietrCCO G                                                   NZ TIN             LSR C U E-19
F-_                                                                    _--iF 
DDl/Radlio Speetruill                       Dl)/Nelwcorks                     DD/C onilptlitioii,n                     F DDl/Compl!iancc
-A                                 F    -     ) AD/Taifis                    F  |AD/ConsumerRelations  |1A/ea 
*1 ADSpeetum Mnagemen       t |    j  ADiType Approvals &|     ...
I  l  (Fixed Seviees)  l   | l       Vendor Licence                 |I                                                                                  I
LlAD/Specinum Management                                                                 B. DNubrn  , /Ivicnlles IL             DQait  fSrie  )/ e a
| | (Mobile Services)                F      ADNnbi                             E ..si Se                                      ADOalt of Servic
k  AD/Radio Frequeney   |  P   Assessment       |          |    ~AD/Costs & Subsidies |                    ADlieceCntos|
LlAD/S'pectrumi Managemeent |        4       AD/Iinicroperability                   (Valu Added Ser6vices)|                       
AD/Monitoring                   ~~~Abbreviations:
~~~~ j ~~~~~~~~DD - Deputy Director                                      
AD -Assistant Director                           TRC ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE- 1998



- 41 -                                      Attachment 3
SriLanka
TELECOMMUNICATIONS REGULATION AND PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM
TECHICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2837-CE)
Project Supervision
(April 19-May2, 1998)
TRC Tariff Determination for SLTL in 1998
Cur-rent                          Prtip-    d                  Aproed
Revenue Requirement  . Not applicable                      35%                          25.07%
..,____._.._:._._..._   _  __........:._................... . . .  _._. _ .   .......   ......   _4._ ....... . ..  _. _.__._._._._._  --,_- ---------
Concessionary Rate           Rs. 1.10 for first 200       Abolish                       Rs. 1.10 for low users
units. All users.                                          (total usage < 200
units) only
Unit Charge                  Rs 1.65                     IRs. 1.95                      Rs. 1.65
Economy Period               2200-0800                    2100-0800                     2100-0800
Out-of-rum  Priority         Rs. 15,000                   Rs. 0! Rs. 10,000.
Charge
Regional Surcharges          Distance based F             Retain                        Retain. Installment
._____                       . _______                      plan invited.
BaselInstallation            Rs. 13,000                   Rs. 10,000                    Rs. 13,000. Lower rate
for self-supply of
-.--.-.-.---..-..---.--.-    .___                          .instnent invited
T ime to provide             Indeterminate                                              30 days. Refund of Rs.
service                                                                                 1 ,000/week credit after
30 days.
Monthly rental               Rs 100                       Rs. 190                       Rs. 180, subject to
.__.__. certain conditions.
._ _ , ___.___ ..........~~.. i. _ ... _._ ..    _._ ....._;.......... _ ____4........... _____... ............ ____
nternational tariffs       . ---. 4-10%  reduction                                      Approved
................................   .   ...................... _... _.. .... ___.___............... ...     ...  - ---     --.
Taes                         22-25%.                                                    12.5%  (GST)
Publicity                                                                               New rates must be
.___ __ __ _ __ __ __ __ _ __ __   .__   adequately    publicized
...... ...  _..   .....  . .    .  __.   ............._. .. _~_......  ..........._._~  .
Call Charges (Seconds per pulse) (a)
Local Peak (b)               86                                . 60                     60--  ---- -        -
SD  Peak                   .36                            30                            30
Local Standard               120                          80                            90
STD  Standard                60                           40    -.-                     60
..f     .   ........... . ......                 ,.. .   . . ... . ............... . .......... ._ ._ .. . . . .. ..  . ....
Local Economy                240                           120            ,             180
STD Economy                I120                           60                            120
.........................  ..................   .......... .   _.. .= .....
(a) SLTL proposal was for the listed seconds/pulse plus an increased unit charge.
(b) Peak = Mon-Sat: 0800-1200; 1400-1800. Standard = Mon-Sat 1200-1400; 1800-2100. Economy = Mon-Sat: 2100-
0000; 0000-0800 and all Sunday.
DD:REG\TARIFFS.D0C



- 42 -
AtAfchment 4
Sri Lanka
TELECOMMUNICATiONS REGULATION AND PUBUC ENTEPRISE REFORM
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (Credit 2837-CE)
Telecommunicattons Operators
1 iLanka Communicabon Services     Jul-04-91       20       Switched and non-switched data commnunicabon. store &
Il            i            tforward fax, e-mail, video-text, enhanced voice service.
2Sr Lanka Telecom Ltd.            Aug-08-91        20       Telepnone. telegraph, telex, data trnsmission,  dbntirme
mobile. facsimile, intemabonal TV transmssion, intermatonal
photo telegram. voice cast transmiaaion, lDS. Inmarsat.
3'Electroteks (Pvt) Ltd.           Nov-05-91       20       Switcred and non-switched data communicadons, directory
i  |   I      informabon, store & forward fax. e-mail. video-at, enhanced
i  |   I     . voice service. electronic data interchange, database
ij           I             lfacilites, telex.
4 Lanka Cellular Services (Pvt) Ltd.   F Feb-11-92  {  20   Cellular mobile telephone.
|(CALLINK)                      _                         S
S Societe Intemadonal de Telecommu-   Aug-06-92    20       Switched and non-switched dab communication. teex.
nicabons Aumnaubques (SITA)                       I      Fe-mnail, data pmcessing related to air ransport industry. fax
61 Infocom Lanka Ltd.              Sep-07-92        10      Radio paging
7Bell Communicaton Lanka (Pvt) Ltd.   Dec-18-92    10       Radio paging.
8}Fentons Ltd.                     Feb-11-93        10     j Radig paging
9OTCAustalia (Pvt) Ltd. (MOBITEL)    Feb-11-93      7       Cellular mobile telephone.
olDynacom Engineedng (Pvt) Ltd.   Feb-25-93        10      Trunked mobile radiocomrnuicaton.
11 intercity Paging Services (Pvt) Ltd.  Apr-01-93  10     Radio paging
121 Equipment Trades Ltd.          Sep-10-93        10       Radio paging.
13 MTN Networts iPvt) Ltd (OlALOG)    Sep-28-93     20       Cellular mobile telephone.
14 F Air Lanka Ltd.                Dec-06-94         s      Voice and data communicatons for the companys
irequirements only.
1 StLanka Intemet Service Ltd.     Dec-06-94        20      1 Store & forward e-mail. internet. stor & fonard fax. e-mail
to fax and fax to e-nmil. fax-to-ASCII character recogniton/
transmission. internet-based database service. video
confericing. enhanced-voice servicea.
I16 The Payphone Company (Pvt) Ltd.    D ec-09-94  j 10     ,Payphones
17 MTT Network (Pvt) Ltd.         MDy-08-95         20      Circuit leasing to other licensed operators. sound and TV
l     l            ~~~~~~transmission.
18FCelltel Lanka Ltd.            | Sep-07-95        13      Cellular mobile telephone. voice mail. fax mail, radio circuit
leasing, wireless loops leasing to payphone operatort.
19! Ceycom Global Communications    ! Sep-19-95  1    20     Switched and non-switched data communicabon.
201Suntel (Pvtl Ltd.             I Feb-22-96        20       Fixed basic telephony, data btransmission. payphone. voice
mail. facsimile.
21 Lanka Belt                       Feb-26-96  i    20       Fixed basic telephony, data transrrassion. payphone. voice
mrail, facsimile.
22 ITMIN                         , Jun-06-96  I    20        Switched and non-switched data communicaton.
231Eueka Online (Pvt) Ltd.         Aug-16-96 F       10     Intemet-based services.
24 PanLanka Networking (Pvt) Ltd.   Apr-28-97        10     Intemet-based services.
25 iMillenium Conmnunications (Pvt) Ltd.   Aug-11-97  10     Multi-media. telemarketing. audio-text, internet. data and
value-added services.
26 TSG Lanka Ltd.                   Mar-30-98  i     10      Payphones.
Source: Teleconmmunicabons Regulatory Comnission - Apri 1997.
OOAEGMOPRTO ASJOS4XmsW



43                              Attachment 5
Telecommunications Regulation and Public Enterprise Reform Technical Assistance Project
Supervision Mission Aide-memoire
Proposed Areas of Cooperation between
the Department of Industry-Canada and TRC
I. Radio spectrum policy and planning.
2. Electromagnetic compatibility studies.
3. Interconnection and revenue sharing arrangements, among the licensed telecommunications
systems.
4. Tariffs, including pricing and costing of telecommunications services.
5. Monitoring of quality of telecommunications services.
6. Development of a new telecommunications legislation.
7. Licensing of operators for the introduction of new technologies.
8. Skills refreshment for professional staff in new technologies, regulatory affairs, etc.
9. Introduction of competition in intemational telephone services.
10. Auditing of licensed telecom system operators.
11. Licensing of FM sound and TV broadcasting operators.
12. Telecommunication terminal attachment standards and regulations.
The Parties will achieve their cooperation through the following specific activities:
- the development of satisfactory procedures for the exchange of information aind documentation
on topics of common interest, especially as concerns organizational structures,, policies,
regulatory affairs, and means and procedures of the other party;
. the exchange of telecommunications experts to prepare relevant guidelines and manuals on
regulatory issues;
the joint organization of seminars, symposia and technical meetings to stimulate and facilitate
contacts between the various interlocutors, such as companies, universities, training institutions,
professional organizations, or others; and
jointly defining specific implementing arrangements, activities and matters of cooperation in
greater detail to give effect to and supplement the Memorandum of Understanding.
DD:REG\MOU.DOC



Attachment 6
Telecommunications Regulation and Public Enterprise Reform Technical Assistance Project
Supervision Mission Aide-memoire
TRC's Work Plan for 1998
(a)    Permanent interconnection agreement for the three existing fixed-access operators. Task to
be performed by a group of the Economics, Technical and Legal Divisions in association
with foreign e.xperts.
(b)    Interconnection agreement between the fixed-access and mobile operators. In association
with foreign experts.
(c)    Dispute resolution procedures. In association with foteign experts.
(d)    Study on cross-subsidization issues. To be headed by the Director of the Economics
Division.
(e)    Quality of service and consumer complaints.  This task would be undertaken by the
Economics and Legal Division and the Media Relations Unit. Some assistance would also be
requested to ITU.
(f)    Anticompetitive practices: to be studied by a task group headed by the Special Projects
Deputy Director.
(g)    Procedures for documentary proceedings and public hearings. Task to be undertaken by the
Secretary to the Board and the Legal Division in association with the Policy and International
Relations and Media Relations Unit.
(h)    Numbering plan. To take effect in 1999. Task group drawn from the Technical Division.
(i)    Terminal interconnection policies. Task group from the Technical Division and the Policy &
International Relations Unit.
(j)    Improvement of accounting and collection practices. To be undertaken by the Finance Unit.
(k)    Legalization of resellers. Legal Division.
(1)    Installation of the Automated Frequency Management System. Supervision and related
works will be the responsibility of the Technical Division.
(m)    Regional conferences. TRC will host in Colombo the 2nd. Telework-S (April 29-30, 1998)
and the South Asia Telecommunications Regulator's Council Meeting (May 1-3 1998).
(n)    Annual Report. Coordinated by the Secretary to the Board.
Source: TRC - April 1998
DD:AREG\PLAN9S.DOC



Attachment 7
Table 1 - Proceeds froim  P'uiblic Entterprise Reform  Programimie (Marcih 1995 - December 1995)
Total       Name of Major Share
Amount         liolding Investor
Name of Slate owned Enierprise                    Sale of Majority Slarelholding                       Public Share Issue          Realised
Through Tender/CSE                                                           ( lRs. Mn.)
Date        % Divested     Local (Rs.    Foreign (Rs.      Date         %       Amount
Mn.)          Mn.)                      Dives   (Rs. Mn.)
I   Statcon Rubber Co.l.td,               Sep. *95          55               17.77                                             -             17.77   Collettes Ltd.
2   13ogawantalawa Planlationis Ltd.      Nov. '95          51              102.00                    Nov.'95         20       36.16        138.16   Mearopolitan MSL
3   Kotagala Plantation Ltd.
4   Capital Development & Investment      Nov. '95          51              102.00        .           Nov. '95        20       36.99        138.99   George Steunts MSL
Co.                                                     -              .             .           Nov. 95       39.7       371.18       371.18   Publicshare jssue
5   Kegalie Plantations Ltd.
Dec.'95          51              102.00        .           Dec.'95         20       37.11        139.11   RPK MSL
6   Agalawatta Plantations LUd.
Dec.'95          51              102.00        .           Dec.'95         20       36.17        138.17   Mackwoods PL
7   Colombo Gas Co.Utd.
8   Watawala Plantations Ltd.              Dec.'95          51                           1,997.77                                         1 .  .  !,997.77   Shell Int. Inv BV
Dec.'95         51'               10.60        -                                                  10.60   Est. Mgt SL
9   Horana Plantations Ltd.
Dec.'95          51               15.20                                                           15.20   Ceye;xe PL
10  Kelamni Valley Plallionts Ltd.
Dec.'95          51              102.00                                                          102.00   DPL PL
___________                         553.57       1,997.77                              517.61     3,068.95
*Balance paid in Jan 96- Rs.86.80 mn



Attachment 7
Table 2 - P'roceeds fronm  Ptublic Enterprise Reform  Proeramme (January 1996 - December 19961
Total Amount   Name of Major Share
Realised       Holding Investor
Name of State owned Enterprise                      Sale of Majority Sbareholding                        Public Share Issue         (Rs. Mn.)
Tnirouph Tender/CSE_
Date       % Divested    Local (Rs. Mn.)    Foreign (Rs.    Date       %        Anmount
Mn.)          _      Divested   (Rs. Mn.)
1.  Watawala Plantations Ltd.             Jan'96           51               295.40          .             .         -          -             295.40  Est. Mgt SL
2.  Horana Plantations Ltd.                Jan'96         51'                 86.80                    Jan 96      20        37.22            124.02  Ceyexxe PL
3.  Kelani Valley Plantations lId.                         .                                           Jan'96      20          36.42          36.42   DPL PL
4.  Maskeliya Plantations Ltd.            Jan'96           51               219.30          .             .                    -             219.30  RPK MSL
5.  Madulsima Plantations Ltd.            Jan'96           51                102.00         .             .         .                         102.00   Stassen
6.  Orient Lanka Ltd.                     May'96           60                                1,000.00     .                    -            1,000.00  Alpha Airports Gr.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _  pIc    U K
7.  Tea Smaliltolder Factories Ltd.                        -                                -          Jul'96         39       64.60          64.60   Public
8g  Rajarata Agro - Fertilizer Co. Ltd    July'96          90                60.05                        .         .          .              60.05   Anglo Fert Ltd.
__0
9.  Agrapatna Plantations Ltd.            Aug'96           51               267.86          .             .         .          -             267.86   Lankem Pi Holdings
10. Lanka l.ubricants Ltd.                                                                             Aug'96         39      547.24         547.24  Public
II. Ilarfigaslenilna l'lantations IJd.    Aug'96           51               239.70                                  .                        239.70   PlMgI. & hiv Co.
12. l3alangoda lPlanitations Ltd.         Sept'96          51               420.75       .                                                   420.75   Distileries Co.
13. Uda l'ussellawa Plantations Ltd.      Oct'96           51               316.14     _       =             .        _                      316.14  Pi. Mgt & Inv Co.
14. Ceyrl'o Steel Corporation Ltd.        Dec'96          90                                  849.45                           -             849.45  llanjung Corp. Ltd.
___________________ __  __             2,008.00          1,849.45                         685.48        4,542.93
* Balance of 51%/o, Rs. 15.20 mn paid in Dec 95



Attachment 7
'I'iTblc 3 - I'Coce(is frioiii PubIlic Entcrl)prisc IRefor  n Ilroprainiie (.Qintuary 1997 - Todaitc)
Total      Name of Major Share Holding
Amount               Investor
Namie of State owned Enterprise                   Sale of Majority Sbarcholding                 Public Slare Issue       Realised
Thlrouigh Tcnder/CSE                                               (Rs. Mn.)
Date       % Divested     Local      Foreignt     Date      %       Amouit
(Rs. Mn.)  (Its. Mit.)            Dives   (Rs. Mn.)
___________              ________    ~~~~~led
1.  Lanka Salt Ltd.                              Jin. '97        90          452.81                                                 452.31               ETF
2.  Puttalam Salt Ltd.                           Feb.'97         90          122.50                                                  122.50    Consortium Pan Sendib etc
3.  Lanka Ceramic ltd.                              .                                              June '97    7.33      36.84        86.34         public share issue
July'97    10.00     119.61       119.61
4.  Namunukula Plantations Ltd.                  June '97        51          403.00                                                  40S.00         Keells Pl.MS Ltd.
5.  Maturata Plantations Ltd.                   June '97         51          466.50                                                  466.50               ETF
6.  Mattegama Textile Mills Ltd.                 June '97        100                       29.50                                      29.50         Kabool Lanka Ltd.
7.  Malwatte Valley Plantation) Ltd.             July '97        51          622.00                                                  622.00         Wayamba Pi Ltd.
S.  Kahawstta Planttation Ltd.                   July'97         51          303.00                                                  308.00        Forbes Pi mgt. UAd.
9.  Elpitiye l'laailstion lI.d.                  July '97        51          308.00                                                  308.00      Ailken Spence Pi M lIld.
10. Sri lnAka sleecomu Itd.                     Aug. '97         35           .        13,380.00                                  13,380.00           NTT'- Japan
11. National Developn,clt bank.                 Auig. '97                     .                              51.00    4,500.00     4,500.00     *PSI - International mainly
(Sale of convertible debentures)
12. Kotagala Plantations Ltd.                                                                     May '97       19      140.79       140.79        Metropolitan MSL
13. Kegalle Plantations Ltd.                                                                      May'97        19      118.23       118.23            RPKMSL
14. Agalawatta Plantations Ltd.                                                                   May '97       19      133.28       133.23          Mackwoods PL
15. Horana Plantations Ltd.                                                                        May'97       19      120.14       120.14           Ceyexxe PL
15. Kelani Valley Plantations Ltd.                                                                 May '97      19      122.90       122.90             DPL PL
16. Talawakele Plantations Ltd.               Dec'97             51        408.00                                                    403.00    Hlayleys Pi. Mgt. Serv Ltd.
17. Pussellawa Pt. L.td                       Dec. '97           51        397.80                                                    397.80    Free Lanka TrAding Co. Ltd
GRANI) IOTAI.                                                              3,493.61    13,409.50        t_             5,341.79   22,244.90
* PSI= Public share issue



Attachment 8
-48 -
Sri Lanka
TELECOMMUNICATIONS REGULATION ANND PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2837-CE)
Telecommunications Sector Policy: Implementation Progress
(Reference: Letter of the Secretary, Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications - 02/08196)
.* . *.-.....-  j.ObCv     ..........
B.:s~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... ..:  . .                             ....... .....     
Convert SLTA into a regulatory Commission    SLTA was converted into a statutory
with operational and administrative autonomy   corporation lkown as the Telecommunications
(including salary structure).             Regulatory Commission in February 1997.
The Secretary to the Minister is the ex-officio
Chairman of the Commission. The Director-
General of Telecommunications is its CEO.
The other three members of the Commission
are also appointed by the Minister from
persons in the field of law, finance and
management. The staff and their salaries are
determined by the Commission.
2   Finance the Comnission's activities through    TRC operations and salaries are financed from
licenses and other operator fees rather than  revenue earned in the form of license fees.
through GOSL's budget and provide it with  Capital expenditure, once approved by
appropriate financial autonomy.           Government, can also be met from this
revenue.
3   Promote competition in the telecommunication  Competition has been introduced in all sectors,
sector by:                                except in international telephone and basic
- adopting transparent procedures for     wireline services (SLTL's monopoly until year
licensing of operators,                 2002). TRC is taking steps to develop
- facilitating interconnection,           appropriate interconnection rules, enhance the
- promoting economically sound-based      quality of service and move toward cost-based
pricing principles, and                 tariffs. The recruitment of qualified senior
- providing adequate regulatory certainty to    staff, now in process, is seen as another step to
investors.                              inculcate a regulatory culture and consolidate
the present efforts.
4   Allow competition in the provision of      Licenses granted are technology neutral.
telecommunications services (other than the
basic wired voice telephony) with the
operators using technology of their choice
(provided that equipment is type-approved and
an appropriate license has been obtained).



-49 -
Telecommunications Sector Policy: Implementation Progress                                2
5   In particular, issue two licenses for radio-  Two licenses were granted in February 1996.
based basic services by march, 1996.
6   Transform SLT into a commercially operated    On September 25, 1996, SLT was incorporated
and fully autonomous corporation. Restructure  2s a public company limited by shares. In
SLT's administration and operation within the   August 1997, the Government sold 35% of the
next two years.                             shares to NIT (Japan). The agreement with
NTr includes managing SLTL, subject to a set
of performance targets and incentives.
7   Ensure that SLT's prices to end users and its    As a prerequisite for cost-based tariffs, TRC
interconnection charges to other service    will undertake a study to obtain reliable cost
providers are based on financial costs.     data prepared according to accepted
methodologies.
8   Rebalance SLT's existing tariffs on the basis    A rebalancing process has been set in through
of a tariff study combined with realistic  the tariff revisions in 1997 and 1998. As a
demand forecasts. Afterwards, enforce tariffs   result of the changes in ownership and
regulated by a price-cap system.            management of SLTL, the price-cap
provisions have been suspended until August
5, 2005. It is unlikely that price-cap regulation
will be fully enforced with other operators.



-50 -
SLTL's Corporate Plan (Project Operation Plan)
Indicators for the operational phase of the project were not included in the SAR or the President's
Memorandum. The same indicators as agreed for the implementation phase (Table 5) and any other
parameters included in SLTL's license or agreed with the regulator, TRC, however, could be used to
monitor future performance of SLT. Monitoring of these indicators will be conducted by TRC.
SLTL submitted the following information about its current corporate plan:
1.   Corporate Mission
Provide quality telecommunications services so that customers are satisfied and all people in Sri
Lanka have access to telephone service by 2001.
Quality means:
* the service is available when desired
* a high percentage of successful call
* a clear, good quality connection
* value-added services are available
Telecommunications services include:
*  national and intemational telephone services
* data, telex, and text services
* video services
* international transit services
Satisfied customers mean:
* meeting customers's needs timely and conveniently
* the services are reasonably priced
* problems are resolved quickly and conveniently
Access for all people in Sri Lanka means:
* telephone and other services to all people who desire services are provided readily
* other have access to a private or public telephone service within five kilometers
2.   Corporate Goals
(a)    To meet market demand by providing 880,000 telephone lines by the year 2000
(b)    Effective and efficient use of manpower resources
(c)    To increase productivity through a contented workforce
(d)    To provide other services
(e)    To achieve and maintain international quality standards,
(f)    Generation of funds to meet capital investment
(g)    To maintain an adequate level of profitability
(h)    To achieve a minimum rate of return of 15% on re-valued fixed assets



- 51 -
Appendix B
Borrower's Evaluation
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-2 -                 7s hi  sas18 
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~E6 e. Q21 d
Tulepho-                                                                  mp0e
RECEIVED                                         0   01.
- . C~~~~~~~~3 oux - 9 All 9: 2 7 f F'4' 'fe .
.mI    329568
CQuelarffw  329568    oEC9  Ui" 9; 2 A                         Wet Toer. Wod Trade CorKe,
ENERGY SECTGR UNIT                         E
Jt422591-3
GO"kz 85~=d &A- W c662
*  yAm ~.  323465                          P    '   ILf'IFT  ,ualp
-Fax No.               M MINISTRY OF POSTS, TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND THE MEDIA
eo *am. 
YourNo.                            MyNe4   PT/D1/23  (P)               Dst  2nd December, 9
Your No  Jmy NO.                                                       Date.
Fax  (202) 522-2427
Mr. Ritm Singh,             -
Telecommunications Policy Specialist,
Worid Bank
Washington D.C. 20433,
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Riin Singh,
DRAFT EMPLEMNTATION COMLETION REPORT aCR)
FOR THE SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT (Cr.2249-CE)
Reference your letter of 6& October, 1998 in the above context, I wish to make
the followmg obervations. Please aLko find enclosed the Evahlution Repart of the
SLTL and the amrended  tables 8A, SB, Appendix-Dl and  D.2 in this regard.
Please also note that the Ministry agrees with the Evaluation  Rcport of the
SLTL.
IDA Credit for Sri TLnka Second Telecommunications Project (Credit 2249-CE)
was. approved on 15'? July, 1991. The project envisaged the provision of 50,000
new telephone lines to expand the telecommunications network and strengthenimg
of the institutional firmework of the SLT to ensure quantitative and qualitative
development of the semvce. Although the completion of the project was delayed
by over 2 years untl June, 1998, the physical achievement reached at the end of
the project was far in exces of the onginal scope of the project In faci, the
achievement was in the rgion of 224% and by June, 1998 about 115,000 new
lines were added to the network as aanst 50,000 lines originally planned .to be
conmected. it is also planned to achieve an actual physical target of 162,488 new
connections by the end of 1998. It is noteworthy  that this remarkable progess is
achieved within the loan amount allocated for the'project
The. Ministry notes with pleasure that the peformance of SLT during the project
period has been satsfactory. SLT planned  and  prepared  the project with the
assitance  of . the  consuants ; co-ordiatd   activities  ith  co-fnanciers  and
inplemented the total project succsy. Except for the delay cxpeenced in
prorurement of local netwoirs in the region, the project could have been
completed much earlier. However, talkng into consideraton, the total achievement
in the project, the Mnitry is quite  fied with the performance of the SLT.



-53 -
-2-
The Ministy gratcfIly observes tha the Bank displayed a concliatory approach to
several su   that arose durig the project peiod and was flexible enough to
extend  its' co-ation at al stages of implementaton of the project Just to
quote one such instance had it not been for the assistance rendered by the Bank
to amend the contacts at the final stagc of the project, payment for al goods
and services obtained by SLTL would not have been possible before the deadline
fxed for 30 of June, 1998. Even the procurement problem that arose with
regard to the local networks project was settled in a manner that was mutualy
acceptable to the Bank and the Govenment
Although the ADB component was delayed by about 2 years and the computerized
accounting ad bling  system  was dropped from   the original project,  thesc
changes did not have any marked impact on the  lemenion of the project and
the  Midnisty notes that the perormance, of the co-financiers  (ADB, OECF,
lTUlUNDP) was saifctory. However, the  finstry has take  note of the slow
disbursement procedures that resulted from  several fators inchdidg the delay in
project impleenion and procurement of local networks and the cancclation of
telegraph component of the project
Ihe programme of institutional  sgthen   of  SLTL   undertaken by MWs.
Sofrecom of France was also successfuL The programme improved the network
plamning and enrgineering; operaion anid mintenance and Corporate Planning
Division of the SLTL.
The SLTl has brought to the notice of the Miistry that the total draw-down
from the loan is expected to incrase with the settlement of an mvoice that MVs.
Ericsson have inadvettly not clmed  unti  SLTL  brought it to thei  notice.
Necessary corrections may be mad in the document accordingly. Taling all
factors into consideration, the performance of the Bank, SLT and the co-financiers
has been satisfactory. The Minisay  while conveying its' gratefl thanks to the
Bank for the aitance rendered to bring the project to its' successful conchlsion
take this opportuity to extend its' assurances to the Bank that the network and
equipment provided under the project wM  be closely monitred through the aegs
of the SLTL and that necessary performance indicators wEil be used to ensue a
satsfactory qualty of service to the customer.
With kind regards.
Yours sincerely,
(K. . ogeswaran)
Secretary
Ministry of Posts, Telecommunications & the Media.



- -~ ~ ~ ~~-4
-54 -
SLTL'S
EVALUATION REPORT
SRI LAN-KA
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2249-CE)
OCTOBER 1998



- 55 -
S LTL'S
EVALUATION REPORT
SRI LANKA
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2249-CE)
OCTOBER 1998
CONTENTS
Introduction ..............................................                02
Project Objectives ..............................................          02
Design, Implementation and Operation experience ................................ 02
SLT's performance during Evolution and Implementation of project ............ 04
Performance of the bank and co- financiers .......................................... 04
Project Cost ......                                                        05
Operation and Maintenance .................                                05
1



- 56 -
SLTL's EVALUATION  REPORT (CREDIr 2249-CE)
INTRODUCTION
Second Telecom project of SLT was financed by IDA, ADB, OECF, UNDP/ATU and
France.
IDA credit was approved on 15d July 1991 and made effective on 24i December
1991.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The objectives of IDA Second Telecommunication project were
(a)   To Provide 50,000 new lines to meet about 80% of demand in project areas
by 1995, reduce congestion, increase call completion ratio and reduce rate
of faults.
(b)   Institutional strengthing of SLT in the areas of corporate planning, financial
management, network  planning  &  engineering  and  operation  &
maintenance.
IDA & SLTL responded positively to additional demand generated through public
awareness of SLTL's intentions to embark on infrastructure development by
augmenting the scope of procurement to cater for the additional demand. Lower
prices of equipment than originally estimated resulting from competition, enabled
funding additional procurement keeping to within loan allocations.
DESGM, IMPLEmENTATioN AND OPERA7TONvEXPEJENVCE
(a)   1.    MIs Sofrecom of France was selected as the consultants for the project
to SLTL prepare detail plans, and advise SLTI on implementation.
2.    World wide tenders were called to select Suppliers for procurement
of exchanges and local area networks in regions and restricted tenders
were called for rehabilitation of exchanges.
3.    Procurement of exchanges contracts were awarded to MIs. Ericsson of
Sweden and M/s. Alcatel of France.'Rehabilitation of exchanges
contracts were awarded to MWs. Alcatel ( for E-1.OB type exchanges)
and MWs. Mitsui & co., Ltd., (for NEC type exchanges).
2



-57 -
4.    The award of a contract for construction of regional local networks
got delayed as the bank did not agree with the recommendation of the
TEC for which CATB' approval was granted. However with the
change of govemrnment fresh negotiations were initiated amongst
MOPT, SLT and the bank, and the award was given to the lowest
bidder, M/s. TCIL of India. A delay of about 3 years to the project,
occurred as a result of the above process.
5.    Eveh though the SAR indicates the addition of new telephone lines
to be 50,000. SLTL will achieve an actual physical of 162,488 new
lines under the project, by the end of 1998, (including rehabilitation.)
Details are given in schedule A & B.
6.    Telegraph equipment portion was cancelled as the use of faxes had
increased rapidly absorbing a large proportion of Telegram traffic.
7.    Switches and networks provided  under the project are being
maintained by the staff who were trained under the project.
(b)   1.    A contract was awarded to M/s. Sofrecom of France to undertake
SLTL's program of institutional strengthening..
2.    SLT's institutional strength was much improved particularly in the
areas of network planning & engineering, operation & maintenance
and corporate planning.
3.   In the network planning & engineering area, capabilities of SLT on
system design, preparation specifications, traffic measurement analysis
etc., were enhanced through the project.
4.    In the field of operation & maintenance productivity and efficiency
were improved.
5.   In strengthening  the  corporate planning division, methodologies
were developed to formulate corporate plans and monitoring of
frilfillment of objectives of corporate plans.
3



-58 -
SLT's PERFORMANCEDURINGEVOLUTIONAADrIPLEMEITATION
OFPROJECT
1.    With' assistance of the consultant, SLT planned and prepared the
project in accordance with the objectives and coordinated with co-
financiers of various project components and successfully designed
and implemented the total project
2.    Even though  there was start up delay of about one year for the
procurement of equipment, due to the best effort of SLT, number of
new lines were increased by 224% compared to SAR figures,
objectives, which is an over achievement of physical objectives.
3.    Procurement of local networks in regions was delayed for about three
years due to conflict of opinion between the bank and SIT.
4.    SLT's performance during the evolution and implementation of the
project was satisfactory.
PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK AND COFJNANCTERS
1.    With great assistance of Bank, contracts were amended at the final
stages to enable payment for all goods and services provided to SLTL
before 306 June 1998.
2.    AlI bank missions were very corporative during the implementaton of
the project and bank's performance was very satisfactory.
3.    Out of the Co- financed ( ADB, OECF, ITU/UNDP) components,
OECF & UNDPATU funded component were completed almost on
schedule.
There was a delay of about 2 years in the ADB component, which
did not have a major impact to the implementation of the project
ADB funded computerized accounting and billing system was not
implemented.
4.    On the whole the performance of co-financiers were satisfactory.
4



- 59 -
PROJECT COSTS
Detail costs and the funding informnations are given in schedule C & D.
OPERATIONAND AITENNCE
Network and equipment provided under the project are being dosely
monitored by maintenance staff of SLTL and perfomiance indicators
such as call completion ratio, congestion, number of faults /100
subs/months etc., are being monitored by the Headquarters.
.
-~~~~ ~~ .- .   -



- 60 -
Appendix C
Cofinanciers' Evaluation
[No comments were received]



- 61 -                              Appendix D.1
Sri Lanka Telecom Ltd.
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT (Credit 2249-CE)
Greater Colombo Telephone Exchanges
. .-;                               .-F-i,,- $ . -; .  Telephone Lines
N a  m     i  >      Dec-89              -     Dec-97 .   .         rovided
Name/Code'IsaldII  evc Installed    In Service ~- nderProject-
1 Angoda                             450          200         1,336         1,280
2 CO CEN SXS                        7,200        6,487            0            0
3 CO E10 CEN                        6,624        5,649        1,016          659
4 CO E10 City                      20,000        6,385       20,416        18,577
5 Central 5ESS                         0            0        24,000        22,821
6 Colombo Tandem                       0            0             0            0          30,000
7 Havelock Town                    12,000       11,283       14,200        13,441
8 Havelock Tandem                      0            0         8,416         8,296
9 Hokandara                          415           98           896          888
10 Homagama                           400          338         3,000         2,052
11 Ja-Ela                             960          326         7,500         4,961          8,800
12 Kadawatta                          500          346         3,968         3,824          5,000
13 Kaduwela                           350          346         1,160         1,122
14 Katunayake                           0            0         4,736         2,863          6,800
15 Kelaniya                          1,250        1,141        7,808         5,743         11,300
16 Kollupitiya                       2,960        2,492        5,880         5,521          8,500
17 Kotte                             5,000        4,642       13,238        13,238
18 Maharagama                        1,100         946         6,000         5,846
19 Malwana                            250          213         3,072         1,570
20 Maradana                         12,000        7,956       16,500        16,527           3,000
21 Mattakkuliya                      1,424        1,161        3,872         3,802
22 Minuwangoda                          0             0        1,280         1,051          2,000
23 Mount Lavinia (XBAR)             12,000        7,445       12,000         9,440
24 Mount Lavinia(E1OB RSU)              0            0         5,050         4,903
25 Moratuwa                          1,400        1,323        6,000         4,899
26 Nugegoda                          4,395        3,597       14,500        14,283          2,000
27 Padukka                            200           105        1,000          580
28 Piliyandala                        500          399         4,000         3,373
29 Raddolugama                          0             0         1,024         778            1,000
30 Ragama                             400          305         2,816         2,223          5,000
31 Ratmalana                            0             0        7,000         6,547
32 Wattala                           1,120         826         8,064         5,996         11,500
33 Wellampitiya                       550          318         2,048         1,829
34 Slave Island                         0             0        8,500          460
35 Rukmalgama                            0            0         1,000         147
36 Mattegoda                            0             0        1,000          304
37 Boralesgamuwa                        0             0        2,096         2,003
TOTAL                            93,44        64,827  -   224,392       191,847~.v-V;   94,900
Source: SLTL - September 1998



-  62  -                                              Appendix D.2
Page 1
Sri Lanka Telecom Ltd.
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT (Credit 2249-CE)
Telephone Exchanges in the Regions
Telephone Lines
Secondary Area/             Dec-89                     Dec-97               Provided
Exchange        Installed  I In Service    Installed  I In Seriice    under Project
ANURADHAPURA
1 Eppawala                   48           46           269           183             128
AWISSAWELLA
2 Awissawella               352          272         1,472           812              400
3 Eheliyagoda               288           89           840          473               128
4 Kosgama                   288           113        1,000           525              128
5 Ruwanwella                256           82         1,000          498               192
BADULLA
6 Badulla                   820          801           616           592              640
7 Bibile                     96           71           244           244               64
8 Mahiyangana               288          181           564          485               128
BANDARAWELA
9 Bandarawela               832          790         2,556         1,598             400
10 Welimada                  288          231           888           467              128
GALLE
11 Ambalangoda               400          336         2,048           748            4,510
12 Baddegama                 144           89           244           244               64
13 GaIle                   1,742         1,430        5,504         3,044            5,400
14 Hikkaduwa                  96            0           896          471             2,258
15 Habaraduwa                  0            0         1,000           321             736
16 Imaduwa                    48           33           176           156              64
17 Kosgoda                    96           39           244          215               128
18 Nagoda                     48           42           116           116               64
HATTON
19 Agarapatana               100           50           256            48             250
20 Hanton                    630          456         1,152           704            2,508
21 Norton Bridge              25            14          128            27              228
22 Pundaluoya                 50           42            54            48              278
23 Upcot                      50           22           128            33               48
24 Watagoda                   25            14          128            28               48
25 Watawala                   50            22           50            36              176
KALUTARA
26 Bandaragama                 0             0            0             0            2,000
27 Bentota                   600          379         1,280         1,161              128
28 Horana                      0            0           650           420              736
29 Kalutara                  880          783         5,651         3,844              400
30 Kehelwatta                  0            0             0             0            3,000
31 Matugama                  345          273         1,664         1,348              120
32 Panadura                1,320         1,241        6,500         2,818           12,004
33 Wadduwa                     0            0             0             0            2,020
KANDY
34 Digana                      0             0          600           537              512
35 Galaha                    200            97          384           133              350
36 Kandy                   4,918         3.678       10,000         5,828           15,120
37 Madolkele                 200            32          256            51              200
38 Pussellawa                200            84          384           131              300
39 Rikillagaskada            200            59          512           109              400
KEGALLE
40 Aranayake                  96            80          448           416              128



Appendix D.2
- 63 -                                                       Page 2
Sri Lanka Telecom Ltd.
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT (Credit 2249-CE)
Telephone Exchanges in the Regions
Telephone Lines
Secondary Area/            Dec-89                     Dec-97              Provided
Exchange         Installed  | In Service    Installed  I In Service    under Project
41 Kegalle                  800          707         2,336         1,985            800
42 Kotiyakumbura             48            29          176          171             128
43 Mawanella                288          275         1,356         1,219            128
KURUNEGALA
44 Giriulla                  96           86          640           170             128
45 Kuliyapitiya             288          246         1.408          699             128
46 Kurunegala              1,492        1,276        5,424        3,873             640
47 Narammala                192          129         1,024          214               8
48 Polgahawela              356          246         1,048          627              64
49 Ridigama                  96           86          460           208             128
MATALE
50 Galewela                 100           41          512           324             248
51 Matale                   904          850         3.482        2,831             400
52 Pallepola                 48           42          244           242             128
NAWALAPITIYA
53 Dolosbage                 25           18           128           28              48
54 Ginigathena               50           19          2.56           61             406
55 Nawalapitiya             360          246          512           335            2,036
56 Tispane                   50           28           128           32              48
NEGOMBO
57 LunuvAla                 288          216         1,000          147            1,408
58 Negomnbo                1,728        1,380        6,888        4,254            1,936
59 Sandalankawa              56           36          448           209             128
NUWARA ELIYA
60 Nuwara Eliya            1,044         944         1,684        1,651             800
RATNAPURA
61 Nivithigala               92           88          628           217             128
62 Pelmadulla               248          224         1,328          478             128
63 Ratnapura                924          837         4,400        1,566             800
VAVUNIYA
64 Vavuniya                   0            0         1,000          887             280
-TOTAL                 25,592       20,020       86,412       51,340           67,588
Source: SLTL - September 1998



Appendix D.3
- 64 -
Sri Lanka Telecom Ltd.
Telephone Service Supply and Demand: 1990-2000
800,000
700.000
600,000
a 500.000
3 400.000
t- ,300,000-
200,000 0 
200,000                                                         .    Projections
100,000
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996    1997    1998    1999   2000
Year
-|--Lines in Service -'Total Demand   +,  SAR Projected Demand
Average Annual Growth (%) in 1990-97:
Equipped Capacity:                              14.4
Lines in Service:                               14.4
Total Demand (Lines in Service + Waiters):      21.2
Source: SLTL - August, 1998



- -                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~Appendix DA
Sri Lanka Telecom Ltd.
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT (Credit 2249-CE)
Telephone Service Demand and Supply (as of December of each year)
Secondary             1090                   1991                    19012                  10093                    1094                    1905                     1996                     11097
Switch. Csntw     C   IS  IW                         I  W-~   c   I           -7-      -c  aT s         w       c   Ia   Iw             c   Ia  Tw-              c   I        Iw          c   Ia   I
1IAnVara           500    437    109      500    437    109       500    430    146      600     421    181      500     475    380      500     457      488     500     465   1.200   2.888      609   1.198
2 Anuradhapura    3,472   1,631    868   3,284   1.631    884   3.293   2.082   1,426   3.928   2.584   2.114   3.858   2.761   3.116   4,098   3.225   4,289   4.218   3.851   5.196   6.488   4.114   6,774
3 Awissawelga     1,496    948    423   1,496    966    519   1.684   1.187    672   1,812   1.582   1.194   2.640   1,821   2.120   2.708   2.122   2,945   2.828   2.486   3.708   4.712   2.649   4.788
4 Baduttla        1,981   1,625    491   2,053   1,667    561   2,770   2,064    885   3,542   2,784   1,220   3,706   3.208   1,616   3.752   3.570   2,363   4.497   4,252   2.743   6.576   6.318   2.108
5 Barndaraweta    1.608   1,361    389   1,588   1,360    434   1,700   1.432    604   1.808   1.703    891   2,340   1,815   1,514   2,428   1,999)  2.077   2,440   2.221   2,501   3.8981  2.456   2.482
6 Batt"lcali      1.200    992    513   1,000    992    507   1,200   1,142    738   1,700   1,253   1.470   1,700   1.629   2.201   1,700   1.679   2.994   2,800   1.847   3,884   6.184   2.573   4.153
7 Chilaw          1.576    947    396   1,676    943    580   1.470    998    702   2.529   1.507   1.899   2,885   i,771   3,085   2,924   2.534   4.156   2,724   2,722   5,713   8.460   4.647   7.143
8 COLOMBO       109,4680  83,908   7,238 100.390  84,883  37,169 120.416 91.023  84,890 148.284 i04.614  88,966 159.141 124.032  89,576 177,556 138.538 109.857 205,455 167.836 118.291 224.392 191.847 110.716
9 Gale            3,074   2,624   1.522   3.180  2.778   2.093   3,703   2,749   2,684   4,651   3,037   3,94    5.096   3,393   6.307   5.090   4.194   5.462  10.896   5.066  10.520  10.99    6.047  t3.986
10 Ganlpah~a       2,065   1.490   1.648   2,405   1.641   1.987   2.501   1.715  2,818   2,785   1,980   5,734   2.774   2,114  12,800   7,343   2.321  16.392   9.952   6,713  15.331  14.160  10.761   15,341
11 Htantbantola    4.072    878    518   4,322   1,371    584   4,102   1,784   1,089   4.326   2,388   i,369   4.326   2.79.3  2,31'.  4.326   2,966   3,222   4.326   3.499   4,387   8.170   4.121   8.099
12 Hatton           980    691    249      980    711      55      975    776    348      975     780    447      962     803    666      966     817      972   1.514     859   1.256   2.202   1.020   1.725
13 Jaffna             0       0 4,007        0       0 4.007         0      0 4.007         0       0    n.a.       0       0     n.a       0        0     n.a,      0        0     n.a.    500      96      n.a.
14 K<alnune         900    093    710      900    863    683       900    900   1.088     900     900   1.829     900     900   3,960       0       0   4,250   1,000      600   4,553   2.024   1,228   8.278
15 Katutara        3.987   3,061    708I  4.652   3,386   1,293   4,764   3.631   4,088   8,712   4.200  4,839   6,124   4.662   9,083   6,596   5.780  12.330  17,729   7.561  17.092  19.661  12.288  19,384
16 Handy     ~~8,688   6.547   3,199   8,882  6,824   4.538   8.628   6,700   4,981  11,784   7.630   8.959  11.771   8.421i  12.940  11,919   9,082  16.011  17,932   9,685  i9,429  25,560  12.884  23,389 
17 Kogallo         1.712   1.525    853   1,712  1.510    773   1,900   1,604   1,390   11,900   1.732  2,043   3,064   1,047   3.204   3,402   2.331   4,308   3.896   2.726   6.430   6.368   5.382   6.7356
Itt Kurunogata    3,384   2,909   1,658   3,684  3,011   1.980   3,684   3,297   2,893   3,864   3,565   4.408   4.742   3,793   7.043   4,884   4,163   9.378   5,006   4,595  13.733  15.006   7.610  12.796
1l Manniar          100    175      48     800      43    153      800     80    496      600      9o      66     600     124      945    500      140     124     600      1864    15      600     188      311
20 Matlae          1,931   1,426    669   2.027   1,455    776   1,850   1.607   1.071   1.715   1.892   1,709   2,751   2.121   2.319   2.810   2.416   2.976   3.057   2,980   3,426   5,882   4.581    3.259
21 Matara          1,840   1.535   1.042   2,081   1,574   1,168   2.088   1.748   1,785   2,142   1,790  2,646   2.115   1.830   6,908  13,540   5,b08   7,277  15,094   9,366   8.801  15.820  12.202   11.085
22 Nawatapttiya     480    312      51     480    319    125       480    322    172      420     333    285      420     329    378      420      327     888     812      348     833     788     395   1,208
23 N4eoonft        5,714  3.488  Z2.24   5.782   3.857  2.742   3.282  2.952   4.007   3,096   2,882    193   5,896   3.481   7,399   4.248   3.841   9.109   9.835   4,610  12.683  1a802   8.623   8.584
24 Nuwara Eliya    2,060   1.481    397   2.080   1.423    88   2,000   1,58.4   518   2,156   1.680    779   2,848   1,860   1,118   2.932   2.203   1.456   2,756   2.394   1.750   2.904   2.461          970
25 Potanrnaruwa    1,000    819    168   1,000    625    212   1.050    859    389   1.050        893    584   1.050      730   1,414   1,050      934   1,708   2.900   1,090   2,653   5.450   3.707    1.701
26 Ratnapuira      2.452   1,806   1,228   2.333   1.884   1,457   2,616   2.130   1.574   2.700   2,468  2,141   3,856   2,634   3,091   3.89    2.887   4.022   3.894   3.173   6,197   7.390   3,400   7,084
27 Trincontmee        0       0    878        0      0    878      630    375    598      626     851    478      922     824    737      974      932   1,482   3,880   2.971   1,937   4.555   3.955   2.406
28 Vavuniva        1,000    162    280     600    200    253       600    447    400      809     561    460      600     583    777      600     597   1,084      800      851   1,613   1,000     887   2.129
COIJNPtYTQ$L 1l~700123.41 42,10 19.887135.84  88,74 1j24 1   I~r1.397316,80 IQI335  1J,~3  337jl0lI073 1113A52W1.30 ,0.963j331.41 441042  s4,s2, 37409192,J1913,693q34
C: fntotat  Linm Capacity S. Line In SerAire W. Wait=r
n.a.: Inlorialln not avaIlabl
Source: SLTL . Auttusl. 1998



Appendix D.5
-66 -
Sri Lanka Telecom Ltd.
Telephone Exchange Expansion -"150K" Project
Contractor and   -    -Planned   - - Final  . Installation
Secondary Switchingcenterie    New Lines LineCapacity|: Date(*)
ERICSSON                           67,837        86,853
Ampara                           3,644        3,644    Apr-98
Batticaloa                      7,196         7,196    Jun-98
Gampaha                         4,250        11,004    Oct-96
Kalmunai                        6,524   .   6,524    Jun-98
Kalutara                       10,150        11,842    Apr-97
Kandy                          16,136        22,256    Jun-98
Kurunegala                      12,520       15,236    Dec-97
Matale                          4,917         6,651    Feb-98
Vavuniya                        2,500         2,500    Apr-99
KTI                                 4,650         4,650
Trincomalee                     4,650         4,650    Nov-96
MlTSUI                             89,830  :   93,522 |
Colombo                        67,800        67,800    Oct-99
Kegalle                         4,476         6,672    Mar-97
Negombo                         12,104       13,600    Mar-97
Polonaruwa                      5,450         5,450    Sep-97
NOKIA                              12,558'-    15,454;
Chilaw                          8,470         8,470    Aug-97
Hambantota                      4,088         6,984    Mar-98
MOTOROLA                            6,425  --
- WiLL Cluster                     6,4'25       6,425    Nov-96
SUMITOMO                           35,236        47,753 J
Anuradhapura                    4,276         6,538    Oct-97
Awissawella                      3,928        4,800    Dec-97
Badulla                         4,892         6,744    Mar-98
Bandarawela                     2,224         3,780    Nov-97
Galle                           11,634       12,177    Jan-98
Nuwara Eliya                      632         3,536    Mar-98
Ratnapura                       7,650        10,178    Oct-97
TOTAL:J    216,536 1    254,657T1
(*) Actual or expected date of installation of the new lines.
Source: SLTL - August 1998



Appendix D.6
- 67 -
Chronology of Sri Lanka Telecommunications Sector Reform
Year                    Sector Reform Progress     P-  !,4.
1980     *  Separation of postal and telecommunications services.  First Telecommunications
1981     *  The first paging service license is granted.      rroject
1985     *  Customer   premises   equipment   (telephones,
teleprinters, fax machines, and PBXs) is opened to
_         _      competition.                               _
1988     *  The first mobile cellular service license is granted.  PPFs
1989     *  Second, third, and fourth paging licenses granted.
1990     *  A GOSL corporation, Sri Lanka Telecom (SLT) is
legally established.
1991     *  The new Telecommunications Act of 1991 is adopted, Second Telecommunications
creating the regulatory authority (SLTA) within the  Project
Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications (MOPT).
*  SLT's operating license is signed.
*  Two licenses are granted for store-and-forward fax
services.
*  Two  licenses are granted for data transmission
services.
1992     *  A second cellular license is granted
*  A fifth paging license is granted.
1993     0  A third cellular license is granted.              Sector Report: Strategic
.                           .   ~~~~~~~~~~~Optionsfor the
*  A third data-services license is granted            omtions fertth
w               ~~~~~Telecommunications Sector
*  A first trunked-mobile service license is granted.
*  SLT sublicenses card pay phones services.
0  A New GOSL-owned company, Sri Lanka Telecom
(Services) Ltd. (SLTS), is created to implement a
planned turnkey supplier-financed project for 250,000
lines.
1996     *  Two licenses for wireless local loop services (WLL)  Telecommunications
are granted.                                     Regulation and Public
*  Amendment of the 1991 Telecommunications Act.     Enterprise Reform TA Project
*  Conversion of SLT into a company (SLTL) under the
Companies Act.
1997     *  Conversion of SLTA  into a more independent
Telecommunications Regulatory Commission (TRC).
* Privatization of SLTL through the sale of 35% of its
equity to a strategic investor and a management
contract for this investor.



Appendix D.7
Page 1
- 68 -
Sri Lanka Telecom Ltd.
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT (Credit 2249-CE)
SLTL's 1996-97 Financial Statements
Income Statement (Rs Million)
1996                 1997
FY Ending 12/31   [Appraisall. Actual I  |Appraisal -Actual
NetRevenues(1)            9,692    8,579       11,138   11,779
Operating Costs:
Staff Remuneration     488    1,250          527    1,661
Depreciation          1,666    2,526        1,746    2,870
Maintenance            474       746         527      477
Others                 716      790          855    2,350 (2)
Total Operating Costs     3,344    5,312        3,655    7,358
Operating Income          6,348    3,267        7,483    4,421
Non-operating items         (78)      (7)         (71)     54
Interest (net)           (1,686)    (621)      (1,713)  (1,161)
Taxation/GOSL Levy       (2,512)  (1,397) (3)  (3,133)    (862)
Net Income                2,072    1,242       2,566    2,452
No. of Subscribers      271,500  254,500     309,000  315,900
Operating Ratio(%)           35       62           33       62
Rate of Return (%)          17.6     15.4        19.7      18.4
(1) After deduction of revenue taxes and payments to foreign operators.
(2) Include management fees for NTT.
(3) Includes a GOSL levy of Rs 750 million.



Appendix D.7
Page 2
- 69 -
Sri Lanka Telecom Ltd.
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT (Credit 2249-CE)
SLTL's 1996-97 Financial Statements
Balance Sheet (Rs Million)
1996        1        1997
FY Ending 12131     Appraisal|  I Actual |Appraisall  I Actual
Assets in Operation        31,579      25,704   34,696       30,394
Less: Depreciation          9,625       7,248   12,522       10,116
Netfixed Assets in Operation   21,954  18,456   22,174       20,278
Work in Progress            1,203      13,967    1,925       17,558
Total Fixed Assets         23,157      32,423   24,099       37,836
Other Fixed Assets (1)        -         4,664       -         4,180
Cash and Banks              4,146         673    5,915        1,449
Accounts Receivable         3,938       7,729    4,543        7,730
Stores                      1,499         363    1,571         584
Total Current Assets        9,583       8,765   12,029        9,763
TOTAL ASSETS               32,740      45,852   36,128       51,779
Equity                     17,506      20,246   20,403       23,382
Long-term Debt             12,553      19,192   12,772       22,194
Current Liabilities         2,681  (2)   6,414    2,953 (2)   6,203
TOTAL LIABILITIES          32,740      45,852   36,128       51,779
Debt/Capitalization (%)       42           49       38          49
Current Ratio (times)          3.6         1.4      4.1         1.6
(1) Mainly "goodwill", which was not considered at appraisal.
(2) Also include subscriber deposits: Rs 474 million in 1996; Rs 574 million in 1997.



