Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C)t~Z ZZV - 
Report No. 9095-CE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
APRIL 26, 1991
Industry and Energy Operations
Country Department I
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(October 1990)
Currency Unit     -    Rupee (Rs)
US$1              -    Rs 40.25
Rs 1              -    US$0.0248
Rs 1 million      -    US$24,845
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB        -    Asian Development Bank
AGSL       -   Auditor General of Sri Lanka
C&L        -    Coopers and Lybrand
DANIDA     -    Danish International Development Agency
EPL        -    Ewbank and Preece limited
FDM        -    Frequency Division Multiplex
FINNIDA    -    Finnish International Development Agency
GHz        -    Gigahertz
GOSL       -    Government of Sri Lanka
IDA        -    International Development Association
IDD        -    Iaternational Direct Dialing
ITU        -    International Telecommunications Union
Mb/s       -   Megabit/second
MHz        -   Megahertz
MOFP       -   Ministry of Finance and Planning
MOPT       -   Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications
NSC        -    National Switching Center
OECF       -    Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
OTS        -    Overseas Telecommunications Services
PCM        -    Pulse Code Modulation
PT&T       -    Post, Telegraph and Telecommunications
PPF        -    Project Preparation Facility
RSU        -    Remote Subscriber Unit
SIDA       -    Swedish International Development Agency
SLT        -    Sri Lanka Telecom
SLTD       -    Sri Lanka Telecommunications Department
STD        -    Subscriber Trunk Dialing
TBSL       -    Sri Lanka Telecommunications Board
UNDP       -    United Nations Development Programme



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Pae
I. THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
Introduction   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  I.................................. 
Sectoral Overview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .   .    1
Recent Telecommunications Developments in Sri Lanka   . . . . .    2
Sector Objectives and Strategies . . . . .. . . . . . . . .   .    3
Sector Institutions  ....  .  .  . ...  .  .  .  .  .  . .. ...    3
Sector Regulation  . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .  .     3
Existing Telecommunications Facilities       . . . . . . .         .  4
The Role of the Private Sector    . . . .   ........ ..   5
IDA's Role and Past Experience.                      .   .  .  . .   6
II. THE BENEFICIARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .                  7
SLT's Organization and Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
Staffing and Benefits  . . . ........  ... .8
Training.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
Operating Performance  ............... .                          10
Tariffs.. . . . . . . . .*......  10
Accounts and Audit   ntsandAudit*       ...                       11
Billing and Collection ndC .lle . ..o ....       .12
Technical Assistance for SLT ........... ..                       13
III. THE PROJECT  . . ... . . . . . ... . . .   15
Project Concept and Design     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
SLT's 1990-95 Investment Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
Project Description   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  . . . .  16
This report was prepared by Messrs. M. Sergo (Sr. Financial Analyst) and D.
Delgado (Telecommunications Engineer) on the basis of an appraisal in May 1990
and a post appraisal review in December 1990. Mr. R. Khan (consultant)
assisted in computer work and Mrs. M. Keane-Golis and Word P-:.-assors assisted
in typing.  The report has been endorsed by Messrs. D.K. 6=-e--, Acting
Director AS1, and F. Temple, Chief ASlIE. The peer reviewers were Messrs. B.
Wellenins (ASTIF), A. Shanmugarajah (ASTIF) and A. Heron (CODOP), who reviewed
economic, technical and financial aspects of the Project, respectively.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
SRI LANKA
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower            : Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Beneficiary         : Sri Lanka Telecom (SLT)
Amount              : SDR 39.7 - (US$57.0 million equivalent)
Lending Terms       t Standard IDA Terms (40 years maturity)
Onlendina Terms    : Fifteen years, including five years of grace, at 1lO
interest p.a. with SLT assuming the foreign exchange
risk.
Proiect Description:  The project objectives are tot improve the efficiency
and service quality of the telecommunications sector in
Sri Lanka; provide technical assistance to the recently
incorporated SLT during its initial years of operation;
and expand access to telephone service, replace obsolete
equipment and reduce unsatisfied demand for service.
The project consists of: (i) international facilities,
trunk transmission, information systems and technical
assistance (funded by ADB); (ii) a national switching
center (funded under French protocol); (iii) external
cable plant in Colombo (funded by OECF); (iv) local
transmission links and subscriber apparatus (funded by
GOSL/SLT and the subscribers); and (v) 35,600 exchange
lines in Colombo, 17,000 exchange lines and outside
plant in the provinces, telegrapb equipment and
technical assistance (funded by IDA).
Pro3ect Benefits   t The project will improve and expand telecommunications
services needed to support economic growth; reduce the
current high unsatisfied demand for service and provide
technical support for the new operator (SLT) to improve
operating and project implementing efficiency. The
project will also promote coordination of sector
development and technical assistance to be funded from
various sources.
Proiect Risks       s It may take longer than expected to make SLT and the
sector regulation operationally effective; a technical
assistance package and suitable project conditionalities
have been designed to minimize this risk. Project
implementation may be delayed due to SLT's limited
capabilities, especially during its initial years of
operation; this risk will be minimized by extensive use



- 1ii-
of turnkey ctatracts, subcontractors and private sector
participation in supply, installation and maintenance of
subscriber equipment. A delay in project implementation
would not have a material impact on the economic rate of
return, as costs and beneflts would be postponed in
roughly the same proportion.
Estimated Project Cost:
Local       Foreign         Total
…----.--- (US$ million) -------
1. International facilities, trunk
transmission, information systems           8.4           31.1          39.5
2.  Cable network in Colombo                    5.3           32.3          37.6
3.  National Switching Center                   1.0            3.9           4.9
4.  Exchange equipment in Colombo               6.7           26.0          32.7
5. Exchange equipment and cable network
in provinces                               10.2           16.5          26.7
6.  Telegraph equipment                         0.8            1.8           2.6
7.  Rehabilitation of exchanges                 1.2            2.7           3.9
S.  Technical assistance                        0.2            3.8           4.0
9. Spur transmission links, subscriber
terminals and buildings                     3.9           12.0          15.9
Base Cost                                      37.7          130.1         167.8
Physical contingencies la                       3.7            8.1          11.8
Price contingencies lb                          9.4           15.1          24.5
Total Project Cost                             AQ153.3                     204.1
La  10  of base cost for local costs and 52 for foreign costs, except for ADB
funded components, which have 1OZ for local and foreign costs.
ib For IDA funded components: 11.5? in 1991, 7.7Z in 1992 and SZ thereafter
for local costs and 3.62 p.a. for foreign costs.
/c Includes US$28.0 million in taxes and duties.
Interest during construction will be charged against income.



- Aiii -
Financing Plan:                        Local          Foreign         Total
…--------- (US$ Million) -----------
IDA                             -               57.0           57.0
ADB                             -               40.0           40.0
OECF                            7.2             36.3           44.1
France                          -                4.4            4.4
UNDP/ITU                        -                1.0            1.0
SLT                            40.9              -             40.9
Subscribers                     2.7              4.8            7.5
GOSL                                             9.2            9.2
TOTAL                                          L L2 L
Estimated Disbursements.
IDA Fiscal Year          92       93         94        95          96
------------- (US$ million) --------…-----
Annual           9.5     18.3       15.7      11.5        2.0
Cumulative      9.5      27.8      43.5       55.0       57.0
Economic Rate of Returns 371
ME:    Existing and Planned Telet.  nunications Network - IBRD 22723



SRI LANKA
SECOND TELECO)MUNICATIONS PROJECT
I. THE TELECOMMUNICAT'ONS SECTOR
Introduction
1.1       The disadvantages of the traditional organization of postal,
telegraph and telecommunications services (PT&ST) in a government department
have become increasingly obvious during recent decades. Rapid technological
development (e.g., in the fields of digital switching and satellite communica-
tions) has revolutionized the telecommunications, new services have been
created (e.g., mobile cellular communications, tolefax and high speed data
transmission), and demand for telecommumications services has increased
dramatically. This rapid development has made telecommunications operations
highly capital intensive and technologically oriented; the postal service, on
the other hand, remains relatively low-tech and labor intensive. Annex 1
summarizes international trends in telecommunications towards
commercialization and privatization.
1.2       The restructuring of Sri Lanka's telecommunications sector has, with
Bank support, followed the same trends noted for industrialized countries.
The postal and telecoummications services were separated in 1980, in 1990 a
new telecommunications corporation was created, and in 1991 a new
Telecommunicatins Act would be implemented, separating commercial operations
from sector regulation. The main challenge in Sr_. Lanka at the moment is to
ensure that the sector entities created under the new Telecommunications Act,
regulatory as well as commercial, will operate efficiently to satisfy the
increasing demand for good quality telecommunications services.
Sectoral Overview
1.3       Sri Lanka's telecommunications services are inadequate to mast the
economy's needs. With only 0.6 telephone lines in service per 100 population,
Sri Lanka's telephone density is comparable to India's (0.4) and Indonesia's
(0.4), both of which have extremely poorly developed telecommunications
infrastructure, and well below other Asian countries, e.g., Malaysia (6.9) and
Thailand (1.7) (see Annex 2). Service quality is poor, partly due to lack of
funds for spare parts, and inadequate long-term planning has resulted in
inefficient use of existing equipment. Demand for telecommunications services
is growing by about 8Z p.a. and in December 1989 was estimated to exceed the
existing 101,300 lines in service by about 1001. About 302 of the lines in
service are for residential use, 462 for business and 24Z for Government.
1.4       Many of the problems affecting the sector were aggravated by the Sri
Lanka Telecommunications Department's (SLTD's) status as a government depart-
ment, which did not provide SLTD adequate financial and operational autonomy
and incentives to operate and expand the telecommunications network



efficiently. SLTD's revenues were transferred to the Government of Sri Lanka
(GOSL) vhieh allocated substantially less funds for sector operations and
investments than required for adequate sector development.11 While SLTD's
financial performance has been satisfactory, primarily due to high demand for
telephone services and restrictions on growth in operating expenditures,
GOSL's budgetary stringency led to under-investment in the sector and hindered
proper ma'atenance. SLTD's short-term planning horizon, adapted to GOSL's
annual budget cycle, resulted in procurement inefficiencies and sub-optimal
investment decisions. The rigid government salary structure for civil
servants made it difficult for SLTD to attract, retain and motivate suitably
qualified staff. IDA and various other donors have supported sector
development, but without adequate coordination of their activities
(para. 3.3). To overcome these constraints to sector development, GOSL
decided to restructure the sector as described below.
Recent Telecommunications Develonments in Sri Lanka
1.5       Supported by IDA under the First Telecommunications Project (Credit
1020-CE), GOSL separated the postal and telecommunications services in 1980
and created the Sri Lanka Telecommunications Department (SaITD). In 1985, GOSL
decided it would be necessary to further restructure the telecommunications
sector to satisfy the demand for telephone service, improve service quality
and promote institutional efficiency and flexibility of operations. In early
1986, GOSL established the Telecommunication Board of Sri Lanka (TBSL) to
develop a sectoral restructuring program, including transforming SLTD into an
autonomous commercial company, eventually with private equity participation,
and establishing a regulatory body. Two IDA project preparation facilities
(PPFs) in 1986 and 1988 2/ and technical assistance funding under the Third
Industrial Development Project (IDP III, Cr. 1948-CE) supported those
activities. The Cabinet reviewed and passed a draft new Telecommunications
Act in early 1988; however, its presentation to Parliament was postponed due
to labor union concerns and the February 1989 parliamentary election. Shortly
after the elections, TBSL was dissolved, primarily due to labor concerns and
political opposition to initiatives which could have resulted in foreign
ownership, and its assets, records and functions were taken over by the
Ministry of Posts and Telecommunicat2ons (MOPT).
1.6       The new Government confirmed its conrltment to sectoral
restructuring in March 1989, but did not want to antagonize the labor unions
and generate wider political opposition to privatization; the interest of
foreign investors had also waned due to the disturbances experienced at the
1/ The GOSL allocation to the sector increased from about 22 of its capital
budget in 1985 to 3.3Z in 1989. This is, however, still below the
sector's requirements.
2I The first PPF (P-322-CE) for US$750,000 was absorbed under the
telecommunications component of IDP III and the second PPF (P-535-CE) for
US$550,000 would be absorbed under the TA component of the proposed
project.



-3-
time. In July 1989, GOSL therefore decid 4 to transfer SLTD's telecommunica-
tions operations to a fully Government-owned Corporation, Sri Lanka Telecom
(SLT), which was legally established on February 6, 2990 under the State
Corporation Act of 1957 and is expected to be fully operational by June 1991.
SLT will be given adequate operational autonomy in finances, procurement and
personnel matters (para. 2.3). A regulatory authority (para. 1.9) within MOPT
will retain responsibility for radio frequency monitoring, type approval of
equipment, licensing, tariffL and other regulatory matters for the sector. A
new Telecommunications Act satisfactory to IDA, which would replace the
existing Telecommunications Ordinance, was presented to Parliament in March,
1991 and is expected to be approved in May 1991.
1.7       Some privatization steps outside the main carrier business have been
initiated, e.g., a license for cellular communications was granted in 1989 to
a private venture (Celltel), and four companies operate private paging
systems. Private sector companies also install and maintains subscriber
equipment for many business subscribers and work as contractors for SLTD and
under aid funded projects. Further private sector participation and
competition for suitable telecommunications services are being considered,
e.g., data transmission, pay phones and suibscriber equipment. When the
political situation permits, privatization of SLT's main carrier business may
be reconsidered; SLT would also be more attractive to domestic and foreign
private investors under stable political circumstances and after having
established a record of commercial operations.
Sector Strategies and Objectives
1.8       The Government's main sector objectives are to expand access to
telecommunications all over the country, improve service quality, satisfy
demand for telecommunications by 1995 and promote institutional efficiency.
IDA supports these objectives. However, considering the currently large
unsatisfied demand, projected increases in demand, available financial
resources and SLT's implementation capabilities wtile it is consolidating a
major reorganization, the demand for service is unlikely to be fully satisfied
by 1995. IDA's strategy is therefore to support the satisfaction of about 80X
of the projected demand for telephone connections by 1995, imnrovement of
service quality and strengthening of SLT's institutional capabilities in
corporate planning, implementation of development plans as well as efficient
operations of the expanded network. The strengthening of sector regulation is
being supported under the ongoing Third Industrial Development Project
(IDPIII).
Sector Institutions
1.9       MOPT is responsible for sector supervision and regulation;
development plans and budgets for the sector also have to be approved by the
Ministry of Finance and Planning (MOFP). In accordance with the new
Telecommunications Act, the sector will be regulated by an Authority within
MOPT, while SLT, the beneficiary of the proposed credit, will operate the
telecommunications infrastructure. Besides SLT, private companies will
provide specific services, e.g. cellular telephone communications, paging
systems and supply and maintenance of subscriber equipment (paras. 1.24-1.16).



-4-
Sector Regulation
1.10      SLT's creation (pars. 2.1) and the entrance of private companies
make adequate sector regulation more necessary than when the whole sector was
operated ao a Government department. The new Telecommunications Act
(para. 1.6) establishes a regulatory Authority, headed by a Director General
of Telecommunications, to promote the public, privat, as well as consumer
interests in the sector. The main regulatory functions includes consumers
protection, fair competition, service quality, tariffs, licensing of
operations, type approval of equipment, technical standards, radio frequency
allocation and monitoring, and international agreements. The Act provides for
private sector competition in the provision of value added services and the
supply, installation and maintenance of subscriber equipment.  The
Telecommunications Act is complemented by stipulat'ons in SLT's license, which
oblige SLT to give the private sector access to its network at a reasonable
fee; disputes would be settled by the Authority. The Act and license were
reviewed by IDA and found satisfactory. However, the Authority is currently
not properly equipped to carry out ite regulatory functions adequately.  To
provide it with the necessary equipment, training and consulting services to
properly execute its regulatory functions, a telecommunications component was
included in IDPIII (see Annex 3). The strengthening of the sector regulation
under IDPIII will be closely coordinated with the activities under the
proposed Project.
Existing Telecommunications Facilities
1.11      The designed switching capacity in some 250 telephone exchanges,
remote subscriber units (RSUs) and manual switchboards was about 166,000
exchange lines as of December 31, 1989, but only about 149,000 lines were
fully equipped due to lack of subscriber cards (para. 3.12).  WitL about
101,000 main lines in service, exchange capacity utilization averag,ed 68Z of
equipped lines, which is low due to a lack of spare part; for the exchanges
and a lag in cable plant construction; in 1984-89, the exchange fill averaged
74Z. The Greater Colombo area has six exchanges and 19 RSUs, with a total
installed capacity of about 93,000 lines (632 of total lines in the country).
Annex 4 lists the Colombo exchanges and their capacities and Annex 5 indicates
their technology. At present, 711 of the switching capacity in the country is
digital, from four different manufacturers.31 The oldest analog exchanges
(Strowger from 1950 and crossbar exchanges from 1960-70) would be replaced
over the next ten years. In urban areas, most of the cable network is buried;
self-supported aerial cables are extensively used in rural areas.
1.12      SLTD's trunk transmission network consists of digital radio highways
(68 Mb/s, 4 GHz), analog coaxial cable links, and pulse-code modulation (PCM)
cable systems.  Spur routes use small and medium capacity analog radio
systems, and some areas are served by solar powered 4- and 8-channels multi-
access radio equipment. Since 1980, the main thrust has been to digitalize
3/ The main suppliers are NEC, CIT Alcatel and Nokial Hitachi has supplied
only 300 lines (Annex 5).



-5-
the transmission network using pulse-code modulation (rCM) systems through
cable and digital links between the secondary switching centers and the
primcry exchanges.  Annex 6 summarizes the tra smission network configuration
and indicates the size of the links among the translt centers. Two national
switch4ig centers (NSC) provide connection to digital and analog ezchanges
separately and link the local and provincial centers with an analog
international exchange. The digital NSC would be redeployed as a tandem
switch and will be replaced by a new digital exchange of higher capacity.
1.13      International communications are provided via a submarine cable
stretching from Prance through the Mediterranean Sea, the Suez Canal and the
Red Sea to Colombo, Singapore and Indonesia, and a Standard A satellite earth
station located 35 km East of Colombo. This earth station is connected to the
International switching center by an analog backhaul microwave radio link and
operates through the INTELSAT Indian Ocean Region Primary Satellite via FDM
and single channel per carrier (SCPC) carriers to 24 destinations. In line
with global commitments, SLT will phase out this type of carrier in favor of
digl.al links such as the Intermediate Data Rate (IDR) carriers. The number
of international circuits (Annex 7) is expected to grow about 15Z p.a. from
468 in 1990 to a total of 923 circuits in 1995. International traffic is
handled by an automatic exchange and manual switchboards In Colombo. The
present exchange will be kept mainly for analog cable and satellite circuits,
and to back-up the new digital exchange to be installed under the project.
The Role of the Private Sector
1.14      Since 1989, the private sector has been licensed to operate a
cellular telecommunications system and various paging systems (para. 1.7); the
private sector also supplies, installs and maintains subscriber equipment,
especially for business subscribers willing to pay for special equipment and
services. This development will be further encouraged under the new sector
regulation (para. 1.10) thzough the introduction of lower rental charges for
existing subscribers who either purchase the existing terminal equipment from
SLT or surrender the e-Asting terminal equlpment to SLT and provide their own
and for new subscribers who provide their own terminal equipment.
1.15      SLT may compete with the private sector in certain markets, e.g.,
subscriber equipment and data transmission, and the regulatory authorities
will verify that competition is fair and SLT does not abuse its monopoly over
the main carrier telephone business. Private sector suppliers of tele-
communications services will be allowed to use SLT's network at prices
reasonably close to SLT's cost for the installation and maintenance of the
relevant parts of the network. This will require SLT to introduce strict cost
center-based accounting (para. 2.17), to ensure that its regulated main
carrier monopoly business does not subsidize the supply of equipment and
services for which SLT competes with the private sector.
1.16      A  amber of qualified local contractors for cable laying,
construction and other civil works have emerged as a result of recent Japaneie
(OZCY) and Finnish (FINNIDA) funded projects. SLT will make use of these
contractors for the proposed project's implementation. SLT also plans to open
its training institutes (para. 2.10) to non-SLT staff to facilitate increased



-6-
private sector participation as well as improve the knowledge of relevant
norms and standards for the sector.
IDA's Role and Past Experience
1.17      The project performance audit report (PPAR, Report No. 7517) for the
First Telecommunications Project (Cr. 1020-CE), for which a US$30.0 million
credit was a2proved in 1980, concluded that despite a delay of about two and a
half years in project completion and substantial cost overruns (58Z), the
project achieved its main objectives of expanding, the telephone network,
improving sector organization and efficiency, introducing modern technology
and improving the sector's financial performance. Despite the cost overruns,
the project's economic rate of return exceeded appraisal estimates, mainly due
to the higher than projected increase in telephone traffic. All major
covenants under the project were met, and the Borrower's performance on the
institutional side exceeded appraisal targets, e.g., telecommunications was
separated from the postal service and SLTD was established in August 1980,
before the agreed target of December 1981, and the staffing ratio was reduced
from 117 per 1,000 telephones in 1981 to less than 70 at the end of the
project, compared to an appraisal target of 100. Implementation of the
US$13.0 million telecommunications component of the Emergency Reconstruction
and Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1883-CE) approved in 1988 is now progressing
satisfactorily after significant initial delays.
1.18      The proposed project would complement other Bank Group operations
which have supported the conversion into companies and privatization of public
enterprisee to make them more efficient and reduce the public sector's role in
the economy. The broad policiea which were adopted in the mid-1980s for
public enterprise reform hatre only recently begun to be translated into
action. This was initiated with IDA assistance under the Economic
Restructuring Credit (ERC, Cr. 2128-CE) approved in FY90. The Public
Manufacturing Enterprise Adjustment Credit (PMEAC, Cr. 2185-CE) approved in
November 1990 extends this assistance by supporting the conversion into
companies of all public manufacturing enterprises under the Ministries of
Textiles and Industries. It also supports the restructuring of the sec-.ors in
which these companies operate as well as their selective privatization. The
proposed project would assist with the restructuring of a major public
service. Building on the two PPFs, the TA under IDPIII and the experience of
the First Telecommunications Project, this project would commercialize SLTD by
converting it into a corporation with adequate autonomy under MOPT's
regulatory oversight as well as Improving and expanding telecommunications
facilities essential to the growth of industries, tourism and services.
SLTD's commercialization would provide a precedent for the restructuring of
other public services, e.g. the postal service. IDA involvement would also
promote coordinated and balanced sector development.



-7-
II. THE BENEFICIARY
Introduction
2.1       The incorporation of SLT, the beneficiary of the proposed Project,
was gazetted on February 6, 1990 under the State Industrial Corporation Act
No. 49 of 1957. As part of preparing the proposed project, considerable
progress has already been made in initiating the sector reform programs
developed with the assistance of IDA PPFs. A number of committees were formed
to carry out the necessary work to make SLT fully operational, e.g., on staff
transfer arrangements, drafting of new legislation, organizational structure,
appointment of key personnel, etc. Consultants (Coopers and Lybrand) were
retained to prepare SLT's opening balance sheet, develop a commercial
accounting system and assist in its implementation, and train SLT staff in
commercial accounting practices. Advertisements were also placed for the
recruitment of the following new key staff: Financial Controller, Chief
Accountant, Human Resource Manager, and Legal Advisor and suitable candidates
have been identified. Existing SLTD staff were given the option to join SLT,
retain their status as civil servants or take early retirement. The SLTD
staff who opted to join SLT will be transferred as soon as SLT's license is
signed (para. 2.2).
2.2       The draft Telecommunications Act was presented to the Parliament in
March 1991 and is expected to become law after a reading scheduled for May
1991; SLT's license will be signed shortly thereafter making SLT fully
operational. SLTD will continue to operate the telecommunications sector
until the new Telecommunications Act comes into force. The draft Act and
license for SLT weLe prepared with PPF support and have been reviewed by IDA
and found satisfactory. The implementation of the new sector structure is of
crucial importance for efficient SLT operations and project execution.
Therefore, the enactment of a new Telecommunications Act, satisfactory to IDA,
and the signing of SLT's license was made conditions of credit effectiveness;
the strengthening of the sector regulation is supported under IDPIII (para.
1.10).
2.3       Public corporations set up under the 1957 State Corporations Act
have more autonomy than state departments, but they are still constrained
because GOSL/MOPT rules and guidelines apply to salaries and other conditions
of service, WOPT tender board approval is required for procurements over
Rs 2.0 million (US$50,000) and GOSL/MOFP approval for procurements over Rs 5.0
million (US$125,000), MOFP approval is required for investment plans, funding
and annual budgets, and GOSL can appropriate corporations' funds. To promote
adequate autonomy and operating efficiency for SLT and avoid a recurrence of
the constraints to sector development experienced under the departmental
structure (para. 1.4), agreements to establish SLT's autonomy were reached
during negotiations with GOSL and SLT on: staffing plans (para. 2.6), staff
benefits (para. 2.8), performance indicators (para. 2.12), tariffs
(para. 2.15), bill collection (para. 2.21), procurement (para. 3.13), and
finances (para. 4.9).
2.4       This is the first attempt to restructure a major public service in
Sri Lanka, and experience will show whether the proposed institutional and



- 8 -
regulatory Authority gain experience in operating and regulating the
telecommunications sector on a commercial basis, there may be scope for
further institutional improvements. During negotiations, agreement was
reached with GOSL on a mid-1993 joint revlew of the adequacy of the
institutional arrangements for the telecommunications sector. This review
will be carried out by GOSL with assistance, as necessary, of IDA and
consultants and agencies funding technical assistance for SLT, e.g.,
International Telecommunications Union (ITU) and Asian Development Bank (ADB)
(paras. 2.22-2.24). GOSL will discuss the results of this review with IDA and
implement additional institutional changes agreed with IDA.
SLT's Organization and Management
2.5       SLT is headed by a seven member Board, appointed by GOSL/MOPT, with
directors from MOPT (Chairman, assisted by a legal advisor, internal auditor
and secretary), MOFP (Treasury), SLT (Managing Director), two public sector
companies and one from the private sector. SLT's Board will give directives
to SLT's management to ensure that GOSL's sector policies are implemented.
SLT's management will consist of a Managing Director, assisted by Directors
for Corporate Planning, Development and Planning, Finance and Operations, and
a General Manager for Human Resources. The Director for Development and
Planning is assisted by two General Managers, for development and projects.
The Director of Operations manages four General Managers responsible for
international services, Greater Colombo (Metro), other regions and support
services. The posts of Director Finance and Chief Accountant have been
advertised and suitable candidates identified; consultants (Coopers and
Lybrand) are assisting in the selection. Once these posts have been filled,
the finance section's organization will be reviewed and expanded to include
budgets, cash management and other functions necessary for SLT's commercial
operations. Otherwise, SLT's organization (see organization chart, Annex 8)
is satisfactory and in line with that of other telephone companies.
Staffing and Benefits
2.6       As of December of 1989, SLTD had about 9,200 employees (see
Annex 9), of whom less than 8,700 are expected to join SLT and the rest to opt
for early retirement, remain as civil servants in SLTD or join the postal
service (some telegraph staff). According to GOSL directives, all SLTD staff
who wish to join SLT have been given the opportunity to do so. SLT will start
its operations with a ratio of about 85 staff per 1,000 lines in service,
which is lower than in Bangladesh, India and Pakistan but still substantially
higher than the ratio of 10 to 20 in efficiently operated telephone
administrations elsewhere. Under the First Telecommunications Project, SLTD's
staffing ratio was brought down from about 180 per thousand lines to about
100, mainly by maintaining the total number of staff while nearly doubling the
number of subscribers. Under the proposed project, a similar reduction of the
staffing ratio from about 85 to about 40 is ezpected by maintaining the total
number of SLT staff under 9,000; this staff limit would provide SLT with
adequate flexibility to employ specialized technical and finance staff. SLT's



- 9 -
projected staffing ratio is included under the performance indicators, which
were agreed during negotiations (para. 2.12). During negotiations, assurances
were obtained from SLT that it will maintain a staffing ratio satisfactory to
IDA.
2.7       While SLTD as a whole may be overstaffed for its current operations,
it lacks sufficient engineers, commercial accountants and technical
specialists (Annex 9). As of December 1989 SLTD's highest paid staff received
US$200 equivalent per month, which is substantially below comparable private
sector salaries. During recent years, highly qualified staff have left for
better paying jobs; a high proportioni of telephone station managers in the
Middle East are Sri Lankans. At the same time, the supply of new engineers
diminished as the universities were closed, and SLTD could barely replace
those who left. It is crucial for SLT's operational efficiency that its staff
have the necessary qualifications, especially as SLT's operations will be
expanded with technologically advanced equipment under the project. To
attract, retain and motivate suitably qualified staff, SLT's remuneration
should be competitive with the private sector in Sri Lanka. SLT will not be
able to match salaries paid by telephone administrations abroad, e.g. in the
Middle East, but improved remuneration in Sri Lanka may encourage some
qualified staff to return for family and other reasons.
2.8       GGSL/MOPT are well aware of the problems SLTD has had in retaining
qualified telecommunications staff and, using the flexibility provided to SLT
by the corporate rather than departmental structure, intend to increase SLT
staff remuneration about 40Z over SLTD levels, including benefits such as
medical, transport, housing, etc., and to introduce a cost center-based,
performance related profit sharing system. During negotiations, SLT's staff
remuneration were reviewed, and agreement obtained that SLT will undertake a
study, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, to design a cost center-
based, performance related profit sharing system, submit its recommendations
to GOSL by December 31, 1991, and implement agreed recommendations by June 30,
1992.
Training
2.9       SLTD's main training institute for systems and network management is
located in Colombo and its training center for external plant in Moratuva;
regional training centers for external plant and basic electronics are located
in Galle, Anuradhapura and Kandy. Under the First Telecommunications Project,
the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) funded training, implemented by
the International Telecommunications Union (ITU). The first UNDP agreement
covered 1984-87 and was extended by three years to 1990. SLTD is negotiating
an extension of its training arrangements with UNDPIITU.
2.10      SLTD's training facilities are well equipped, the courses relevant
to SLT's future needs, and the instructors well qualified. However, the
training facilities are underutilized, and the number of students could be
tripled with current training infrastructure.  The main reason for the lack of
students has been the reluctance of SLTD staff to forego payments for
overtime, allowances and other fringe benefits during training. As a
Corporation, SLT will be able to pay a special wtraining allowance" to



- 10 -
compensate for these benefits as well as require that certain training be
completed as a condition for promotion. Further, the private sector would be
given access to certain courses at reasonable fees, e.g. "external plant' for
contractors' staff and "subscriber equipment" for private suppliers; adequate
qualifications of private sector firms would be a condition for receiving the
necessary operating licenses. These arrangements would ensure that SLT's
training infrastructure is adequately used and would strengthen the
qualifications of private sector firms. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from GOSL/SLT that UNDP or other funding will be made available for
SLT's training activities during the duration of the project.
Operating Performance
2.11      As of December 1989, only about 602 cf the 166,000 lines installed
exchange capacity (or 68Z of the fully equipped exchange capacity of 148,700
lines) was utilized, and the connection of new subscriber lines in 1985-89
averaged only about 3,600 p.a.. The quality of service, both local and long-
distance, was poor. In Colombo, there were about 40 faults per 100 sub-
scribers per month and in the provinces about 25, well above normal levels of
about 12. Call completion rates were below 27Z against a desirable level of
over 502. This poor performance was partly due to insufficient funds and
inadequate planning, which resulted in switching capacity being installed
without provision for corresponding outside plant, lack of spares and
inadequate maintenance. Ethnic disturbances during recent years exacerbated
these problems. The situation has improved somewhat recently. The completion
of the first phase expansion of the Colombo cable network, funded by the
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECF), enabled SLTD, assisted by
private contractors, to connect about 1,000 subscribers a month in 1990.
However, lack of spares and cards for the digital exchanges still prevent full
utilization of installed capacity.
2.12      SLTD's financial performance has been satisfactory, with a rate of
return on revalued net fixed assets in operation exceeding 15S since 1981.
However, SLTD's collection of bills (paras. 2.19-2.21) has been less than
satisfactory. For the monitoring of SLT's operations, suitable performance
indicators were identified (Annex 10). During 1990-95, monthly subscribers
complaints per 100 lines are expected to decrease from over 25 to less than
10, call completion rates to increase from 272 or less to over 50? and number
of staff per 1,000 lines to decrease from 85 to 40. During negotiations,
agreement was reached on performance indicators for SLT, e.g. exchange fill,
call completion rates, staffing ratio, operating cost per line, self-financing
ratio, etc., which will be monitored by SLT and IDA during the project
implementation.
Tariffs
2.13      Telecommunications tariffs have not been increased since 1985 and
have fallen in real terms by about 40? (Annex 11). However, tariffs were
still adequate for SLTD's operations as a government department, providing a
rate of return on SLTD's revalued net fixed assets in operation exceeding 15?
and GOSL with a substantial net fiscal surplus. Annex 12 summarizes the
current tariffs. SLTD's subscribers pay a monthly rental equivalent to only



- 11 -
US$2.00, which is low compared with other telephone administrations. Despite
low rental charges, the average revenue per subscriber is currently $600, due
to the heavy local and long-distance traffic, and this is sufficient for
satisfactory financial performance. New subscribers are charged a connection
fee of about US$60 equivalent.
2.14      The level and structure of telecommunications tariffs were reviewed
by IDA under the First Telecommunications Project and in 1987 with assistance
from the Commonwealth Fund for Technical Co-operation. The current tariff
regulation proposal (Annex 11), included in $LT's license, is based on the
1987 study and would permit tariff increases equal to domestic inflation less
two percent for regulated domestic services; tariffs for international
services would be maintained in real terms. With improved efficiency and
economies of scale provided by the network expansion under the project, this
tariff regulation system should enable SLT to maintain satisfactory financial
performance. However, to ensure that SLT's initial tariffs are adequate, a
review would be required once GOSL has decided on its equity and debt,
commercial onlending terms for the debt, fitcal policies for the sector,
impact of increased staff benefits, etc. F.arther, to promote increased
private sector participatioh in the supply and maintenance of subscriber
equipment (telephone sets, telexes, faxes, etc.), SLT tariffs should be higher
when SLT provides subscriber equipment than when the subscriber procures it
from other sources. The adequacy of upfront charges for priority connection
would also have to be reviewed to ensure an economically efficient
distribution of new facilities and the funding of local project costs.
2.15      The above tariff issues have been discussed and, in principle,
agreed with GOSL. Recommendations on specific tariff levels, however, will be
made only when the cost of SLT's staff benefits has been established and GOSL
has decided on SLT's equity vs. long-term debt, onlending terms for the debt
and its fiscal and dividend policies towards the sector. Decisions on these
matters are expected by June 1991; thereafter SLT, together with the
regulatory authorities, will carry out the necessary studies of the adequacy
of SLTa tariff structure and levels. During negotiations, SLT agreed that it
will complete a study of the telecommunications tariff structure by December
31, 1991 and, after discussing its findings with IDA, recommend suitable
changes to GOSL by March 31, 1992 for implementation as from April 1, 1992.
GOSL expects SLT to have achieved some improvement in service quality before
tariff increases are introduced. Agreement will also be sought from GOSL that
SLT's tariffs will be maintained at levels that will permit SLT to produce a
rate of return on revalued net fixed assets in operations of at least 15l
after tax.
Accounts and Audit
2.16      As a government department, SLTD produced cash accounts, mainly for
GOSL budgetary purposes. Under the First Telecommunications Project,
commercially oriented accounts were maintained for IDA financial monitoring
purposes, including revaluation of SLTD's fixed assets. As a Corporation, SLT
will be required to maintain its accounts on a fully commercial basis and has
retained external consultants, funded under the PPF, to assist in finalizing
its opening balance sheet, once the new Telecommunications Act comes into



- 12 -
force (para. 1.6), introducing a commercial accounting system and training SLT
staff in commercial accounting practices. A new Financial Controller and
Chief Accountant, with suitable experience in commercial accounting practices,
will be employed, and suitable candidates have been identified with the
assistance of the PFF funded consultants.
2.17      SLT's new commercial accounting system will be cost center and
service-based to provide the necessary information for the performance-based
staff profit sharing system and the setting of SLT tariffs, including those
for services for which SLT competes with the private sector. SLT's license
obliges it to give private companies access to the network to enable them to
provide unregulated services. The price for network access should be in line
with its cost (para. 1.10). The volume of data processing required for this
system will necessitate further computerization of the accounts; ADB will
finance necessary consultancy and equipment for this purpose under its
information systems component (para. 3.6 and 3.7).
2.18      As a public corporation, SLT will be audited by the Auditor General
of Sri Lanka (AGSL), who is expected to appoint an independent external
auditor from the private sector for SLT's commercial audit; several qualified
auditing firms are represented in Sri Lanka. Improved procedures for internal
audit will also be introduced and staff suitably trained. During
negotiations, agreement was reached with SLT that an independent external
auditor, satisfactory to the Bank, will be appointed for SLT and that
certified copies of SLT's financial statements, including corresponding audit
report, will be made available to IDM within four months of the end of SLT's
financial year. The audit report will include an opinion on controls and
procedures for the use of a special account and Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs) under the project (para. 3.15).
Billing and Collection
2.19      The fixed telephone rental is billed annually in advance; other
domestic telephone charges are billed bi-monthly by computer in the Greater
Colombo area and monthly by hand in billing centers outside Colombo. Telex
and international charges are billed separately each month. Partly due to
ethnic disturbances, SLTD's billing and collection performance deteriorated
during 1984-89, and at the end of 1989, accounts receivable were equivalent to
7.5 months of billing; most overdue bills were for services to the public
sector. In 1990, MOPT assisted SLTD in collecting substantial outstanding
amounts, and after writing off amounts that cannot be collected, SLT will
start its operations with accounts receivable equivalent to about five months
of billing. Those receivables are to some extent balanced by deposits from
subscribers with international direct dialling (IDD) facilities which
guarantee their payment of bills. In May 1990, those deposits were increased



- 13 -
from Rs 10,000 to 25,000 ($650); an additional bank guarantee of Re 50,000 was
also required. About 10 of the subscribers have IDD facilities, and for SLT
as a whole, subscriber deposits are expected to average about one month of
billing after recent increases.
2.20      A private subscriber who does not pay the bill within a month is
notified and the overdue amount is included in the next bills if this bill is
not paid, the subscriber is disconnected. Some municipal authorities have
also been disconnected for non-payment of bills. No standard procedures exist
for disconnection of central Government subscribers. Private subscribers
generally pay their bills within a month of their receipt, and public
subscribers, after the recent collection drive, within three months. However,
bills are often issued a month or two after the close of the billing period
due to the existing inadequate billing equipment and procedures, which
contributes to increasing accounts receivable.
2.21      To streamline SLT's billing and collection procedures and make them
more effective, all subscribers (inside and outside Colombo) should be billed
monthly, domestic and international telephone charges should be included in
the same bill, and computer software and hardware should be upgraded. The
necessary consultancy and equipment to improve SLT's billing and collection
procedures are included in the project and will be funded by ADB. New
procedures and equipment are expected to be implemented by June 30, 1992.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from SLT that it will reduce and
maintain its accounts receivable for telecommunications services to the
equivalent of three months of billing as from June 30, 1992. Agreement was
also reached with GOSL that it will cause its agencies to pay their telephone
bills within three months of receipt.
Technical Assistance for SLT
2.22      SLT will need substantial institutional support to take over SLTD's
telecommunications operations, implement a 1991-95 investment program that
will double network capacity, improve the quality of service and operate the
system on a commercial basis. Although the technical and engineering staff
are well qualified, under the GOSL department structure and budgetary and
other constraints they have not had adequate opportunity to plan for
coordinated expansion and proper maintenance. The existing staff lacks
experience in commercial accounting, finance and corporate planning, and new
key staff are being employed and existing staff trained in these areas.
2.23      Under by the ongoing IDA PPF, consultants were retained to finalize
SLT's opening balance sheet, design and assist in the implementation of a
suitable commercial accounting system and train SLT staff in commercial
accounting practices. ITU signed an agreement with SLTD in early 1990 to
establish a development planning center. UNDP/ITU support has also been
obtained for an SLT management development project to be implemented in 1991-
93, including materials management, customer services, subscriber database,
personnel and financial management and information systems. Under another
UNDPIITU operation, similar assistance will be provided for the development of
SLT's middle management. During project preparation, ADB-funded consultants
reviewed SLT's management information systems and data processing needs, and



- 14 -
ADS will finance computer hardware and software and related consultancy for
implementation under the proposed project. ADB will also finance consultants
to review the customer billing system, malntenance workshops and a service
quality improvement plan.  Copies of ADB's Appraisal Report and the UNDP/ITU
TA project documents are in the project files.
2.24      The ADB and UNDP/ITU technical assistance should improve SLT's
capabilities in key areas, but complementary assistance is required to ensure
that SLT operates efficiently on a commercial basis. There is a need to
establish clear corporate objectives and consolidate SLT's network, manpower
and financial plans into a corporate plan. More assistance is required in
network planning and engineering, as the ITU assistance in this area mainly
consists of data collection and processing, and standards and procedures for
operations, maintenance and fault clearance are needed. It has been agreed
that IDA would provide TA support in: corporate planning, network planning
and engineering, operations and ma..ntenance as well as seminars, fellowships
and other training for SLT staff in those areas. Terms of reference for the
TA to be funded by IDA are in Annex 13. SLT intends to invite proposals from
about six foreign telephone administrations with adequate experience. During
negotiations, the scope of the whole TA package, to be funded by IDA as well
as others, was reviewed and agreement was reached on the TOR for IDA-supported
assistance in corporate planning, network planning and engineering and
operations and maintenance.
2.25      The separate TA provided by various donors requires coordination.
For this purpose, SLT created a coordination group within the corporate
planning unit to liaise with donors, ensure that the TA provided by different
consultants fits together, look after administrative and logistic matters and
monitor the consultants' performance.  IDA reviewed these arrangements for
coordinated implementation of the TA package and found them satisfactory.



- 15 -
III. THE PROJECT
Project Concept and Design
3.1        IDA funded consultancy studies for the telecommunications sector's
restructuring under the PPFs (P-272-CE and P-535-CE), e.g. regulatory
framework, organizational structures, finance and accounting systems. These
studies provided the basis for the restructuring being implemented by GOSL.
IDA also funded a market survey (carried out by ITU) to establish the scope
for expansion of telecommunications services. Partly based on the IDA-
supported consultancy studies and market survey, an ADB-funded
Telecommunications Development Study was undertaken, and IDA participated in
reviewing its results. In parallel with these studies, Denmark (DANIDA)
financed a study for the development of telecommunications services in the
northern and eastern provinces. DANIDA has allocated $30.0 million equivalent
for this development and is seeking co-financing from Sweden (SIDA) and
others.
3.2       The Telecommunications Development Study assumed that GOSL's sector
objective of satisfying all demand for telecommunications services by 1995
irould be met. However, the forecast demand for 1995 is over 370,000
subscribers, about three times the current number, and it would require an
inordinate effort to meet this target fully. It was concluded that SLT, at a
time when it is consolidating a major reorganization, would not be able to
finance and implement an investment program of this magnitude and that about
250,000 subscribers by 1995 would be a more realistic target. The project
supported by IDA, as well as ADB, OECF and UNDP/ITU, is based on this reduced
SLT investment program. The Committee of Development Secretaries has approved
the project proposed for financing by IDA and other donors under this
investment program.
3.3       In recent years, SLTD's investments have not been adequately
coordinated, resulting in imbalances between cable plant and exchange
equipment and utilization of only about 602 of installed exchange r-t-:ity
(para. 2.11). A major concern for the definition of the IDA-supported project
was therefore to ensure that it would technically stand alone and that it
would include all the necessary investments to realize fully the economic and
financial benefits derived from the IDA funded components. For those reasons,
components to be funded by ADB, OECF and others have been included in the
project. In Colombo, the IDA-funded switching equipment will need the OECF-
funded local cable network to permit connection of new subscribers; outside
Colombo, IDA-funded switching equipment and local cable plant will depend on
long distance links to be funded by ADB and others. All new subscribers to be
connected under the project would for their long distance calls depend on the
ADB-funded international facilities and the national switching center funded
by the French. The efficient implementation of IDA-funded TA in network
planning and engineering, commercial accounting and corporate planning will
depend on the computer hardware and software to be funded by ADB and the
institutional strengthening of SLT in key areas to be funded by ADB and
UNDP/ITU (para. 2.23). The IDA supported project excludes the northern and
eastern areas, as these would be covered by the DANIDA project, as well as
expansion of the City exchange in Colombo (to be funded by France), Matara



- 16 -
(FINNIDA) and Gampaha and Katunayake (OECF), but these projects have been
considered in the Telecomaunications Development Study and will be coordinated
with the IDA supported project to ensure that equipment is compatible and
dimensioned to handle traffic from all areas adequately.
SLT's 1990-95 Investment Program
3.4       SLTD's ongoing investment program, which will be completed by SLT
during the project period, consists of: (i) installation of a new 8,000 line
exchange at Nugegoda in 1991-92, funded under the French Colombo Area
Development Scheme (CADS), Phase IV; (ii) development of the Matara region
under a FINNIDA grants 1,800 lines in 1992-93 (Phase I) and 2,520 lines in
1993-94 (Phase II); and (i$i) IDA Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation
Project (Credit 1883-CE) for the North and East areas, to be completed in
1991. Other works planned for 1991-95 outside the project are: about 9,000
lines/year as from 1993 for the rehabilitation of the North and East, funded
by DANIDA/SIDA; improvement of telecomuanications networks in Gampaha and
Katunayake, including about 7,000 lines exchange equipment, 19,300 pairs of
cable network and radio systems, all to be installed by 1993 and funded by
OECF; and 18,000 exchange lines to expand the existing City exchange in the
Colombo area, for which French funding is being sought. Details on SLT's
investment program, including the project, are given in Annex 14.
Project Obiectives
3.5       Consistent with IDA's sector strategy, the proposed project's main
objective is to support sectoral reform through the establisbment of a new
covmercially oriented, autonomous operating entity (SLT) and improve sector
efficiency. The project will also help finance the new corporation's initial
investment program to expand and improve telecommunications services needed to
support economic growth and coordinate sector development and co-financing.
Specific Project objectives are to:
(a) strengthen SLT's capabilities in the areas of corporate planning,
financial management, network planning and engineering, and
operations and maintenance, through suitable consultancies and
develop SLT's management and human resources through training
programs;
(b) facilitate private sector participation, e.g., as contractors to SLT
and in the subscriber equipment market; and
(c) connect 50,000 new subscribers to meet about 802 of demand in
project areas by 1995, reduce network congestion and increase call
completion rates to over 502 and reduce the number of monthly
faults from over 25 per 100 subscribers to less than 10.
ProJect Description
3.6       The project's TA component is described in paras. 2.22-2.25, and
draft TOR are in Annex 13. The project's investment component has been
designed to expand and improve telecomunmications services quickly at least



- 17 -
cost within the constraints of SLT's financial and implementing capabilities.
As demand cannot be fully met under the project, priority has been given to
investments with the highest economic justification, e.g. international
facilities, which are highly profitable, and exchange equipment in Colombo, to
permit connection of new high revenue producing subscribers and make efficient
use of existing and planned cable network capacity at marginal cost. Outside
Colombo, the areas have been prioritized based on projected demand, revenue
earning potential, and the need to improve the balance between existing
exchange and cable plant capacities. The Project, as summarized in Annex 14,
consists of:
(a) international facilities, trunk transmission, information systems
and TA for customer billing and maintenance procedures, funded by
ADB;
(b) about 35,600 exchange lines in Colombo (Annex 15), 17,000 exchange
lines in the provinces (including outside plans), rehabilitation of
existing exchanges, telegraph equipment and TA for commercial
accounting, corporate planning, network planning and engineering and
operations and maintenance, funded by IDA;
(c) a national switching center (funded by France), outside plant in
Colombo and TA for operation and maintenance of transmission and
cable networks (OECF), subscriber apparatus (subscribers) and
buildings (SLT) and local transmission links (bilateral funding
being identified by GOSL); and
(d) TA for network planning, management development and training, funded
by UNDPIITU.
Proiect Cost
3.7       Based on SLTD's experience with contracts under ongoing works and
IDA's and ADB's experience under other projects, the total project cost,
including contingencies, is estimated to be US$204.1 million, with a foreign
component of US$153.3 million. The IDA supported TA will be provided by a
well established telephone company, which is expected to be more cost
efflcient than other consultancy. The local cost component, US$50.8 million
equivalent, includes about US$28 million in taxes and duties. Estimated
project costs (Annex 14) are summarized belows



- 18 -
Local     Foreign    Total
----- (US$ Million) ------
COMPONENTS TO BE FUNDED BY IDAt
1. COLOMBO:   (a) Local Exchanges (35,600 lines)       5.4      20.8      26.2
(b) Tandem Exchanges                    1.3        5.1      6.4
2. PROVINCES: (a) Exchange Equipment (17,038 lines)  2.6        10.5      13.1
(b) Cable Plant                         7.6       6.1      13.7
3. Exchange Rehabilitation                             1.2       2.7       3.9
4. Telegraph Equipment                                 0.8       1.8       2.6
5. Technical Assistance /a                             0.0       2.2       2.2
Base cost                                          18.9      49.2      68.1
Physical contingencies                              1.9       2.4       4.3
Price contingencies                                 5.2       5.4      10.6
Subtotal                           26.0      57.0      83.0
COMPONENTS TO BE FUNDED BY ADB:
1. International Switching Center,
Earth Station and Transmission Link                 3.5      11.4      14.9
2. Trunk Transmission Network                          4.3      17.6      21.9
3. Information Systems                                 0.6       2.1       2.7
4. Technical Assistance                                0.2       0.7       0.9
Base cost                                           876      31.8      40.4
Physical contingencies                              0.8       3.1       4.0
Price contingencies                                 1.8       5.3       7.1
Subtotal                          11.2      40.3      51.5
COMPONENTS TO BE FUNDED BY OECF,
FRANCE, ITU AND OTHERS
1. National Switching Center (France)                  1.0       3.9       4.9
2. Colombo Cable Plant and TA (OECF)                   5.3      32.3      37.6
3. Spur Transmission Links                             1.5       7.5       9.0
4. Subscribers Terminals                               0.6       4.2       4.8
5. Buildings and Stores (SLT)                          1.8       0.4       2.2
6. TA for Planning and Management
Development (UNDPIITU)                              -         0.9       0.9
Base cost                                          10.2      49.2      59.4
Physical contingencies                              1.0       2.5       3.5
Price contingencies                                 2.4       4.4       6.8
Subtotal                           13.6      56.1      69.6
Total Base Cost                                       37.7     129.6    167.3
Physical Contingencies                                 3.7       8.1      11.8
Price Contingencies                                    9.4      15.1      24.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                             1T3 ; 3 -3
/a Includes US$550,000 for the PPF (P-535-CE).



- 19 -
3.8       Physical contingencies have been estimated at 5Z of foreign costs
and 1O0 of local costs, except for the ADB-funded components, for which 101
physical contingencies have been applied to local as well as foreign costs.
Price contingencies for foreign costs are based on 3.6Z p.a. and for local
costs on 11.5Z for 1991, 7.7Z for 1992, 62 thereafter and have been applied to
the mid-1990 estimated base costs.
Financing Plan
3.9       The financing plan is given below:
Local     Foreign      Total
-(3--- (US$ Million) ------
IDA                                57.0       57.0
ADB S                               40.0      40.0
OECF                     7.2       36.9       44.1
France                   -          4.4        4.4
SLT                     40.9        -         40.9
UNDPIITU                 -           1.0       1.0
Subscribers              2.7 la     4.8        7.5
GOSL                     -          9.2        9.2
Total
La Includes installation costs.
3.10      SLT will fund all local costs out of its internal funds, except
those related to the OECF component. The ADB project was approved by its
Board in December 1990. GOSL has reached agreements with OECF, who appraised
its component in August 1990, and France for the funds indicated above.
UNDPIITU has agreed to fund TA ($1.0 million). Subscribers will pay for the
installation of their telephone sets and other subscriber equipment (US$4.8
million). This leaves a funding gap of about US$9.2 million for transmission
links outside Colombo for which GOSL is seeking bilateral funding. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOSL that funding will be made
available to SLT for the timely completion of the project. The effectiveness
of the ADB and OECF credits will be a condition of IDA credit effectiveness.
The ADB Credit will be onlent to SLTD at 132 with GOSL assuming the foreign
exchange risk; the same conditions are assumed for other cofinancing credits.
The proposed IDA Credit will be onlent from GOSL to SLT for 15 years,
including five years of grace, at an interest rate of 10, with SLT assuming
the foreign exchange risk. Signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
GOSL and SLT, satisfactory to IDA, will be a condition of effectiveness.
Procurement
3.11      The negative effects resulting from mixing switching equipment of
'ifferent technologies (Annex 5) in Sri Lanka's relatively small
telecommunications network has been pointed out by ITU, EPL, Carl Bro and



- 20 -
other consultants. To reflect the extra cost of adding another digital system
(duplication of spares, staff training, as well as eventual interface
problems), in procurement of this type of equipment for the project, new
suppliers will be required to include provisions in their blds for the
additional spares, training, interface equipment etc. that would be required
if their system were introduced in Sri Lanka. To maximize competition and
reduce the probability of adding a new system, the switching equipment will be
procured in a single package.
3.12      Due to GOSL budgetary stringency, some CIT Alcatel exchanges in the
Colombo area are not equipped with the cards necessary to enable connection of
the number of subscribers the exchanges were designed for. The quickest and
most cost efficient way to connect new subscribers would be to install the
cards at a cost of about US$200 per subscriber. Some CIT AWcatel remote
subscriber units (RSUs) are also needed, and the NEC exchanges installed under
the first IDA project need to be expanded. To ensure compatibility,
precurement of the CIT Alcatel cards and RSUs, as well as the expansion of the
NEC exchanges, would have to be done by direct contracting. It was agreed
that SLT be allowed to use up to US$3.0 million out of the IDA Credit for this
purpose as long as the unit prices are reasonable and in line with what has
been offered under ICB for similar equipment according to IDA's and SLTD's
recent experience.
3.13      Except for the US$3.0 million exchange rehabilitation component,
which will be procured by direct contracting, and the US$2.5 million TA
component, which will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants, all IDA-funded procurement will follow ICB procedures.
All procurement documents relating to bids valued over US$300,000 will be
subject to IDA's prior review; those under this value will be submitted for
post-award review.  The IDA-funded equipment to be procured under ICB
procedures and subject to prior review consists of three packages valued at a
total of US$51.5 million (912 of the Credit amount). IDA would review the
quotations for any item under the exchange rehabilitation component prior to
issuance of pu--hase orders to ascertain the reasonability of prices. During
negotiations, agreement was reached with GOSL that it will establish a special
Tender Board, under the supervision of the Cabinet, for SLT's procurement and
increase SLT's approval limits (para. 2.3) in line with what has been done for
other public corporations.
3.14      A table, indicating proposed bid packages, procurement methods and
estimated amounts is presented below; Annex 17 contains a procurement
timetable.



- 21 -
Procurement Package                        ICB     LCB    Other   N/A    Total
----------- (US$ million) ----------
1.  International Facilities               14.2                    4.5     18.7
2.  Trunk Transmission Network             22.7                    5.7     28,4
3.  Information Systems                     2.7                    0.8      3.5
4.  Telephone Exchanges                    42.5                   12.9     55.4
(Incl. installation)                 (42.5)                           (42.5)
5.  Exchange Rehabilitation                                 3.0    1.5      4.5
(3.0)           (3.0)
6.  Telegraph Equipment                     2.0                    1.1      3.1
(2.0)                           (2.0)
7.  Cable Plant for Provincest cables       7.0                    1.5      8.5
(7.0)                           (7.0)
works              9.0                      9.0
S. National Switching Center                                4.4    1.2      5.6
9.  Cable Plant for Colombo                36.9                    7.2     44.1
10. Spur Transm. Links in Provinces                        8.6    2.0      10.6
11. Subscriber Terminals                                    4.8    0.7      5.5
12. Buildings and Stores                           2.8                      2.8
13. Technical Assistance                                    i-.2    0.2     4.4
t2.3)           (2.5)
Total           128.0   11.8   '2 K 0   39.3    204.1
(51.5)          (3.5)           (57.0)
NOTs  Figures in parentheses are amouDs financed by IDA.  T'he N/A column
includes taxes and duties ($28.0 million).  Local cost., except for
OECF-funded components, are to be financed from SLT's ctsh generation,
and procurement will follow 8LT's procedures. The na-.-toil switching
center will be bilaterally funded ^ising direct contracting. Bilateral
funding is also being sought for local transmission li.Mke. Subscribers
will buy terminal equipment from the private sector.



- 22 -
Disbursements
3.15      To facilitate disbursement, a special account will be opened with an
initial deposit of US$0.5 million equivalent, the estimated expenditures on
relevant components for a four-month period. The account will be opened in US
dollars in a bank acceptable to IDA. Applications for replenishment will be
submitted monthly or whenever the Special Account is drawn down to 40Z of its
initial deposit, wt.ichever occurs first. Disbursement will be made against
priced contracts for the goods, services and works procured under the IDA
Credit, and statements of expenditures (SOEs), if any: lOOZ of foreign
expenditures for materials, equipment and installation and 100Z of
expenditures for consultant services and training. Interim certification of
works will be done by SLT's Project Office (para. 3.18) and certified by SLT.
Disbursement against SOEs will be made for goods and services for contracts
costing less than US$100,000 and SOEs audited (para. 2.18). Documents
supporting expenditure statements will be retained by SLT and made available
for review by IDA supervision missions. Disbursements against other contracts
in excess of US$100,000 would be fully documented. During negotiations, the
procedures for the operation and audit of the Special Account were explained
to GOSL and SLT; the opening of the account, in a bank satisfactory to IDA,
would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
3.16      The IDA Credit is expected to be disbursed as shown in Annex 16 and
summarized below (in US$ million)s
IDA FY                  92      93       94      95
Annual                 9.5    18.3    15.7    13.5
Cumulative              9.5    27.84    3.5    57.0
The projected disbursement period is one year shorter than the Bank's standard
disbursement profile (April 20, 1990) for telecommunications projects in Asia,
and larger disbursements have been projected for the early years.4/ The
deviation is justified taking into account the times recorded for recent
FINNIDA and OECF telecommunications projects in Sri Lanka and the use of
turnkey contracts for major project components to facilitate implementation.
Projected disbursements are based on the initial deposit of US$0.5 million
into the special account, the disbursement of funds for the exchange
rehabilitation component and the signing of major contract for TA and
switching equipment being made in FY92. ADB and OECF expect their credits to
be fully disbursed by 1994.
Project Preparation
3.17      Agreements have been reached on ITU/UNDP-funded TA and  1R have been
agreed for ADB and IDA supported TAI the TA package for SLT and arrangements
for its implementation were reviewed at Credit negotiations (paras. 2.22-2.25)
4/   After an initial delay in project start-up of three years, Cr. 1020-CE
was disbursed in four years.



- 23 -
and found satisfactory. The design of the investmenlt part of project was
prepared under the ADB funded Telecommunications Development Study (para.
3.2). The ADB and OECF project components include assistance by consultants
for the preparation of bid documents, and similar assistance is provided under
the PPF, P-535-CE, for IDA-funded exchange equipment and cables. The tender
documents for the exchange rehabilitation component and for telegraph
equipment will be prepared by SLT without assistance.  The TOR and shortlist
for IDA funded consultants for preparation of tender documents were finalized
by SLT and agreed during IDA credit negotiations.
Proiect Implementation
3.18        SLT expects to commission the ADB-funded international facilities
by the end of 1992 and complete the trunk transmission system by the end of
1994. The OECF-funded local cable network installations in Colombo would be
finalized by June 1994. To connect new subscribers and make efficient use of
international facilities and cable network, the commissioning of the IDA-
funded exchange equipment should start by the end of 1993. This would require
bid invitation by June 1991, award by March 1992 and installation to start by
mid 1993. Annex 17 contains implementation schedule for IDA, ADB, OECF-funded
as well as other project components. To ensure efficient project implementa-
tion, SLT has established a Project Office, headed by a senior SLT official
assisted by appropriately qualified technical and administrative staff. This
Project Office will be responsible for overall supervision of project
implementation as well as reporting and coordinating with IDA, ADB, OECF and
other co-financiers.
3.19      The doubling of Sri Lanka's telecommunications network capacity in
five years while SLT is consolidating a major reorganization will require
efficient project implementation. To make this possible, SLT will make
extensive use of turn-key contracts and subcontractors. A number of qualified
subcontractors have emerged as a result of recent OECF and FINNIDA funded
projects. To reduce the demand on SLT's financial and implementing capabili-
ties, the supply, installation and maintenance of subscriber equipment will,
to the extent practicable, be given to the private sector. This is in line
with SLTD's past practices (para. 1.14).
Project Monitoring
3.20      SLT's Project Office will prepare quarterly progress reports on the
project's investment component, in a format acceptable to IDA, and submit them
to IDA within one month of the end of the quarter. SLT's Corporate Planning
unit will report on the progress of TA provided under the project. Project
accounts will be currently maintained by SLT's Project Office, so that the
cost of each project component can be clearly established; these accounts will
be audited together with SLT's financial statements (para. 2.18). Reporting
requirements were discussed and agreed during project negotiations; a project
supervision plan is provided in Annex 18.



- 24 -
IV. FINANCES
SLTD's Past Financial Performance
4.1       In accordance with an agreement under the First Telecommunications
Project, SLTD has been making year-end adjustments to its cash accounts,
maintained mainly for Government budgetary purposes, to show its performance
on a commercially oriented basis for IDA financial monitoring purposes. These
adjusted accounts, including revaluatLon of fixed assets, were audited by the
Auditor General, and SLTD's past financial performance has been analyzed on
the basis of these accounts.
4.2       SLTD's 1986-89 income statements on revalued basis are in Annex 19s
a summary in Rs million is given belows
FY Ending 12/31:                       1986    1987    1988    1989
------ (Rs million) ------
Operating Revenues                    1,652   1,674   2,013   2,857
Operating Expenses                      709     811      976   1,284
Operating Income                        943     863   1,037   1,573
Net Income                              687     496      846   1,306
Rate Base La                          3,343   4,169   5,358   7,A72
Operating Ratio (Z) Lb                   43      48       48      45
Rate of Return (Z)  /c                   28      21       19      21
la Average revalued net fixed assets in operation.
/b Operating expenses over operating revenues.
Lc Operating income over average revalued net fixed assets in operation.
4.3       SLTD's financial performance has been satisfactory, with a rate of
return on revalued net fixed assets in operation generally over 202, exceeding
the 152 covenanted under the first project. However, partly due to tariffs
falling in real terms during recent years (see para 2.13), SLTD's rate of
return declined from 28Z in 1985 to 212 in 1989. Further, investments in
exchanges with a fill of only about 652 led to a sharply increased rate base
but not to a corresponding increase in revenues, which contributed to the
decline in the rate of return.
4.4       SLTD's 1986-89 balance sheets are in Annex 20; a summary for 1989 is
given below:



- 25 -
1989
(Rs Million)           2
Net Fixed Assets in Operation                          8,635              75
Capital Works in Progress                              1,166              10
Current Assets                                2.100                 18
Less:  Current Liabilities                      400                  3
Net Current Assets                                     1,700              15
Funded by: Equity                                      7,927              69
Long-Term Debt                             3,574              31
Total Liabilities                                    mm=                "9
Debt/Equity Ratio (Z)                                     31
Current Ratio (times)                                      5
4.5       About Rs 5,100 million of SLTD's equity consisted of its revaluation
reserve, which has been calculated according to revaluation methods agreed
under the first IDA project.51 All loans and credits that GOSL has received
for the development of the telecommunications sector have been treated as
SLTD's long-term debt (including US$30.0 million from IDA for the Fizst Tele-
communications Project, about US$25.0 million from OECF and French and other
credits). SLTD's financial position was strong with only 31? of its capital-
ization in long-term debt and current assets five times current liabilities.
However, when the Telecommunications Act is enacted, GOSL will decide on: the
valuation of assets to be taken over by SLTC, the initial working capital,
debt and equity, and terms for the debt taken over. Some accounts receivable
that cannot be collected and obsolete stores would be wrltten off by SLT.
SLT's initial financial position will, therefore, differ from SLTD's closing
balance sheet.
Financial Projections for SLT
4.6       SLT's opening balance sheet will be finalized by the consultants
(Coopers & Lybrand) after Parliament enacts the new Telecommunications Act and
GOSL has taken necessary decisions (para. 4.5), which is expected to be done
in June 1991. The accuracy of the projections for SLT will be reviewed at
that time. The financial projections for 1990-97 given in Annexes 19 to 22
are based on the following assumptions for SLT: income tax of 50? of net
income, initial wage increase in 1991 of about 40Z, 13? onlending rate for
long-term debt and GOSL carrying the exchange risk, except for IDA credits
which will have a 102 onlending rate and SLT carrying the exchange risk,
dividends to GOSL from 1994 when SLT's cash flow is expected to allow for such
5/   This revaluation method mainly consists of indexation of the annual ac-
quisition costs of assets: foreign costs with the MUV index and exchange
variations, local costs with the Colombo wholesale index, except for land
and buildings, which have specific valuations.



- 26 -
dividends, initial capitl structure similar to that of SLTD but with past
revaluations and retained earnings as GOSL equity, domestic tariffs increased
by domestic inflation less 2% a year and international tariffs maintained in
real terms, staff benefits increasing about 2Z a year in real terms from 1991,
and other operating costs increasing at the rate of inflation. The projec-
tions also assume that outstanding uncollectable SLTD bills will be written
off, store values adjusted for obsolete items, and fixed assets written down
for equipment destroyed in past disturbances. (SLT will start operating from
the date its license is signed, which is expected to occur as from June 1991.
1991 will therefore be split into two FYs, the early months for SLTD and the
subsequent months up to December 31, 1991 for SLT. This fact has been ignored
for financial projection purposes as the exact transfer date is not yet
known.)
4.7       A summary of SLT's projected performance during 1990-95 is given
below:
FY ending 12/31:           1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Operating Revenues         3,220   3,530   4,314   5,483   6,933   8,398
Operating Expenses         1,308   1,402   1,628   2,304   2,721   3,062
Operating Income           1,912   2,128   2,686   3,178   4,212   5,336
Net Income                 1,312      700     814     822   1,201   1,670
Operating Ratio (Z)           41       40      38      42       39      36
Rate of Return (Z) /a         22       14      16      15       15      16
Debt/Capitalization (2) /a   34        33      46       48      49      46
Current Ratio (Times)        4.0      3.5     2.7     3.5      4.1     4.1
Self-financing Ratio (2) /b  65        42      31      23       34     130
/a On a revalued basis after tax.
/b Net cash generation over the average capital expenditures for the
preceding, current and subsequent FY.
The above projections indicate that SLTC's financial performance would be
satisfactory, even after paying expected corporate income tax, higher wages,
dividends and commercial terms on long-term debt to GOSL. The institutional
reforms, economies of scale and efficiency improvements are expected to reduce
SLT's operating ratio from the current level of 412 to 362 in 1995. However,
due to income taxes SLT's rate of return is expected to decline from currently
over 20? to about 152; long-term debt is not expected to exceed 50? of total
capitalization during the project period.
4.8       SLT's projected 1986-97 flow of funds is presented in Annex 21; a
summary for the 1991-95 project period is given on the following page:



- 27 -
1991-95
(Rs million)        (C)
Internal Cash Generation                       24,280            159
Less: Increase in Working Capital              (3,793)            15
Dividends to GOSL                        (2,000)            13
Corporate Tax                            (6,106)            40
Debt Service                             (8,243)            54
Available for Capital Investment                4,138             27
Increase in Long-Term Debt                     11,048             73
Total Sources            "A.M              a
Project Cost                                    9,005             59
Other Capital Expenditures                      6,181             41
Total Capital Expenditures    IL=.1              "a
Self Financing Ratio /a (X)                      43
Debt Service Ratio (times)                      2.9
/a Defined as internal cash generation, less increase in working capital
(except for cash), dividends, tax and debt service, as a percentage
of capital expenditures.
The projected debt service ratio is expected to exceed 2.6 every year, and the
self-financing ratio 232. This would be satisfactory and should provide suf-
ficient funds for a dividend to GOSL from 1994. More funds would be generated
if connection fees and/or other upfront charges were increased over current
levels (para. 2.14).
Financial Covenants
4.9       To ensure the adequacy of SLT's tariff levels for the longer run,
during negotiations agreement was reached with GOSL/SLT on a 15? rate of re-
turn on SLT's revalued net fixed assets in operation (para. 2.15). SLT would
also need to generate internally all local expenditures for its 1991-95 in-
vestment program, or at least 25Z of the US$318 million equivalent program
cost. During negotiations, agreement was reached with GOSL and SLT that all
necessary steps will be taken, including tariff adjustments, to enable SLT to
contribute not less than 25Z of its capital expenditures from internally gen-
erated funds during the project implementation period. To ensure that ade-
quate funds for its operations and development are retained within SLT, assur-
ances were obtained from GOSL during negotiations that it will not declare
dividends or otherwise appropriate SLT funds unless such funds are in excess
of SLT's requirements for operating costs, debt service, working capital and
an adequate portion of its capital investment program.



- 28 -
Financial Rate of Return (FIRR)
4.10      International as well as domestic telecommunications facilities in
Sri Lanka are highly congested, and no major traffic increase can be obtained
without expansion of these facilities; GOSL is reluctant to increase tariffs
until service quality has been improved. The incremental revenues for the
project have consequently been defined as all revenues resulting from
increases in international traffic beginning in 1992 and 602 (the estimated
project portion) of increases in other revenues from 1993; incremental income
tax and operating costs, excluding depreciation, for the project have been
defined as 602 of income tax and cost increases from 1992. Based on these
assumptions, the FIRR for the project would be 27? (Annex 23); this return is
satisfactory and well above SLT's cost of capital.
4.11      The incremental operating costs, income taxes and domestic revenues
per subscriber line have been assumed to be about the same for all new
subscribers connected under SLT's 1991-95 investment program. However, the
real operating costs for the project should be lower than SLT's average and
revenues higher, as most subscriber lines under the project are for the
greater Colombo area with its economies of scale and concentration of business
subscribers. Further, income taxes may be lower than the average, due to
higher depreciation and deductible interest under subsidiary loan agreements
for IDA and ADB-funded components. The 27Z rate of return is therefore a
conservative estimate.
4.12      A sensitivity analysis was performed indicating that the FIRR is
most sensitive to changes in incremental revenues and capital costs. Even
with a combination of adverse events (capital and operating costs 20? higher
than projected and revenues 202 lower) the FIRR would still exceed 142.



- 29 -
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Demand for Telecommunications Services
5.1       At the end of 1989, there were about 32,000 applicants for service
on SLTD's waiting lists as compared to 101,000 subscribers. The waitiug lists
are likely to include mostly serious applicants, as SLTD introduced at sppli-
ca-tion fee of Rs 250 (US$6.25) in 1989, which reduced the number of appli-
cants by over 20,000. However, the waiting lists understate the real demand,
as waiting lists are maintained only in places which currently have service,
and potential subscribers may not bother to register without a realistic
expectation of being connected within a reasonable time. Estimated telephone
demand is given in Annex 24.
5.2       The high traffic per existing subscriber line also indicates
substantial unsatisfied demand. The existing network was not designed to
handle the high traffic loads; the result has been severe congestion and low
completion rates for local as well as long distance calls. The international
facilities are also severely congested, especially after the recent resurgence
in tourism, with substantial losses of potential revenues.61 Celltel, the
cellular telephone company, had about 1,000 subscribers by the end of 1990 and
connected about 30 subscribers per month. The willingness to pay over
US$2,500 equivalent for a cellular telephone connection and call charges more
than double SLT rates also indicates pent-up demand for service and a
substantial consumer surplus, despite the currently poor quality of service.
5.3       Several estimates of the demand for telecommunications services and
projections have been made recently -- by JICA (Japan), Carl Bro. & Co.
(Denmark/DANIDA), Ewbank Preece Ltd. (EPL, UK, funded by ADB) and ITU (funded
by IDA PPF). These studies came to very different results, depending on when
they were done and the future economic growth assumed for Sri Lanka. This
project's appraisal is based on EPL's demand estimates, which incorporate the
ITU findings. The EPL estimates are based on a 5Z p.a. GNP growth and are
more conservative than those of JICA and Carl Bro. EPL estimated a total
demand at the end of 1990 at about 250,000 lines (compared to 110,000 lines in
service), increasing to about 376,000 in 1995, a growth rate of about 8.4Z
p.a. EPL's methodology, assumptions and regional demand estimates are
summarized in Annex 24.
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
5.4       The economic rate of return calculations are based on a standard
conversion factor for local costs of 75Z and exclude taxes, duties, interest
and other transfer payments. No shadow wage rate has been applied, as only
skilled labor is expected to be used, of which there is no surplus in Sri
Lanka. Incremental project benefits (para. 4.10) are based on SLT's 1990
6/   In 1989, SLTD had a net hard currency surplus on international traffic
of about US$15.0 million; this surplus could be increased, given a
properly designed and dimensioned system.



. 30 -
tariff levels, maintained in real terms, which are below the real tariff
levels SLTD's subscribers were willing to pay in the past. Based on the above
assumptions, the ERR for the project would be 37Z (Annex 25). A sensitivity
analysis indicates that even under a combination of adverse events (capital
and operating costs up 202 and revenues down 20Z), the ERR would exceed 24Z.
5.5       The above ERR should be considered a minimum estimate of the real
ERR for the following reasons:
(a) no consumer surplus has been considered despite large unsatisfied
demand at current tariff levels;
(b) no increase in consumer surplus has been considered, despite
projected improvement in service quality and expansion of the
network, which will make the telephone service more useful for all
subscribers; and
(c) no incremental benefits beyond 1996 have been included, although the
infrastructure provided under the project would allow for connection
of more subscribers at low marginal cost.
Project Risks
5.6       The project could be delayed due to difficulties in making SLT and
the sector regulation operationally effective. To minimize this risk, an
agreement on a technical assistance package, linked with suitable conditiona-
lities under the project, was reached during negotiations. Project
implementation may also be delayed due to SLT's limited implementation
capabilities, especially during its initial operations; this risk will be
minimized by extensive use of turnkey contracts, subcontractors and, to the
extent practicable, private sector participation in the supply, installation
and maintenance of subscriber equipment. A delay in project implementation
would not have a material impact on the ERR, as expenditures and benefits
would be postponed in roughily the same proportion; the project net present
value, however, would decrease by about IOZ, the estimated opportunity cost of
capital, for each year the project is delayed.
Fiscal Impact
5.7       SLT will pay to GOSL custom duties and taxes of about 20Z on
imports, 501 income tax on net income, debt service on commercial terms and
dividends. According to projections (Annex 27) this will total about $46
million in 1991, increasing to about $114 in 1995. The annual fiscal benefits
for GOSL will thus exceed the estimated $40-50 million which GOSL took out of
SLTD to 1990.
5.8       GOSL's expenditures are largely limited to the repayment of foreign
loans and credits for the sector. Nearly all sector credits are on
concessionary term, e.g. ADB, IDA, OECF and FINNIDA funds, or outright grants



- 31 -
e.g. UNDP and French protocol funds. The GOSL annual outlays for the sector
during the project period is, therefore, estimated to be less than $5.0
million; the cost for sector regulation is expected to be covered by license
fees.
Environmental Impact
5.9       The project has been given a *C  environmental assessment rating.
Most new exchange equipment will be housed in existing buildings; new
buildings, mainly for stores, will be less than 1X of project cost. In the
greater Colombo area, most new cables will be laid in existing ducts, which
have spare capacity. The disruptions due to the laying of cables and exchange
installation during project implementation will, therefore, be minimal.
However, SLT will coordinate closely with the Central Environmental Authority
(CEA) to ensure that project implementation is in full accordance with CEA
guidelines. Afte: its completion, the project should have a beneficial
environmental impact, as improved telecommunications services will facilitate
efficiency improvements of the economy, e.g. in the transportation sector.



- 32 -
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1       During negotiations, agreements were reached wlth GOSL that it wills
(a) in June 1993, undertake a review of the adequacy of the
institutional arrangements for the telecomunmicatLons sector, and
implement institutional changes as may be agreed with IDA
(para. 2.4);
(b) allow SLT to implement a satisfactory staff remuneration system,
including a cost center based, performance related profit sharing
system (para. 2.8);
(c) maintain SLT's tariffs at levels that would enable SLT to produce a
rate of return of 152 on revalued net fixed assets in operation
(para. 2.15);
Cd)  instruct its agencies to pay their telecommunications bills within
three months of receipt (para. 2.21):
Ce) make funds available to SLT for the timely completion of the project
(para. 3.10);
(f) establish a special Tender board, under the supervision of the
Cabinet, for SLT's procurement and increase SLT's approval limits to
adequate levels for efficient project implementation (para. 3.13);
ig) take necessary steps, including tariff adjustments, to enable SLT
during the project implementation period to contribute not less than
251 of its capital expenditures from internally generated funds
(para. 4.9); and
(h) not appropriate SLT funds unless such funds are in excess of SLT's
requirements for operating costs, debt service and an adequate
portion of its capital investment program (para. 4.9).
6.2       During negotiations, agreements were reached with SLT that it wills
(a) maintain a staffing ratio satisfactory to IDA (para. 2.6);
(b) undertake a study of a cost center based, performance related profit
sharing system for SLT staff, submit its recommendations to GOSL not
later than by December 31, 1991 and implement agreed recommendations
by June 30, 1992 (para. 2.8);
(c) introduce performance indicators to be monitored under the project
(para. 2.12);
Cd) complete a study of the telecommunications tariff structur2 by
December 31, 1991, discuss its findings with IDA and recoimend suit-
able changes to GOSL by March 31, 1992, and take all necessary



- 33 -
steps, including applying for tariff adjustments, to produce a rate
of return on revalued net fixed assets in operations of not less
than 15X (para. 2.15);
(e) have its financial statements, including the special account,
audited by independent extornal auditors, acceptable to IDA, and
make its audited statements available to IDA not later than four
months after the close of its financial year (para. 2.18),
(f) maintain its accounts receivable below the equivalent of three
months of billing as from June 30, 1992 (para. 2.21); and
(g) take all necessary steps, includinS applying for tariff adjustments,
to contribute not less than 251 of its capital expenditures during
the project implementation period from internally generated funds
(para. 4.9).
6.3       As conditions of effectiveness, a Teleconmunications Act, satisfac-
tory to IDA, should have been inacted, SLT's license should have been signed
(para. 2.2), GOSL and SLT should have entered into a subsidiary loan agree-
ment, acceptable to IDA, for the proposed IDA credit and the ADB and OECF
credits should have been made effective (para. 3.10).
6.4       Recommendation.  Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the
project is suitable for a IDA credit of SDR 39.7 million (US$57.0 mlllion
equivalent) on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.



-34-
ANNDE 1
SRI LANKA
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Trends Worldvite
1.    To enable the telecommunications sector to keep pace with technological
change and innovations, a number of governments decided :o separate the postal
and telecommunications services. In Japan this occurred already in 1952, in the
U.K. in 1981, and in the Federal Republic of Germany in 1990. During the second
half of the 1980s, in line with European Economic Community (EEC)
recommendations, the telecommunications sector was liberalized and the private
sector was permitted to provide some services, e.g. terminal equipment and value-
added services in France, The Netherlands, Belgium, and Switzerland.  In the US,
the private sector ATT monopoly was divested in 1984, and the entrance into the
market (except for the main carrier telephone business) of new companies and
competition was facilitated. The creation of new services and the breaking up
of old telecommunications monopolies made it necessary to distinguish clearly
between the regulatory and the commercial aspects of the sector and amend the
regulatory framework. New telecommunications laws were enacted in a number of
countries, e.g. in the U.K. (1984), Japan (1985), France (1986), Switzerland
(1987) and Germany (1990).
2.    During  he 1980s, the privatization of telecommunications services was
widely discussed as a way to provide the flexibility to adapt to the rapid
technological changes in the sector. British Telecom. was privatized in 1984 and
ENTEL, Argentina, in 1990. NTT, Japan, was partly privatized (up to 50Z private
equity) in 1985 as well as Chile Telecom, and privatization plans are being
developed in New Zealand and Mexico. In other countries, private competition was
allowed in the supply of subscriber equipment, data transmission, value-added
services, etc., but stopped short of the privatization of the main carrier
telephone business. Telephone service was considered a natural monopoly, public
or private, for reasons of economies of scale and the need for a uniform
nationwide infrastructure. Telecommunications operations are generally quite
profitable, so there may be a fiscal argument against privatization.   Other
arguments against privatization were related to concerns about local capital
markets' absorptive capacity, excessive foreign influence in a vital sector, the
goal of uniform treatment .of subscribers, need for cross-subsidies, labor
concerns about job security, and the need for more elaborate sector regulation.
On the whole, however, the trend appears to be towards more privatization, even
if a majority of countries have opted for gradual change, service by service,
rather than wholesale privatization as in the U.K and Argentina.



-35-
ANNEX 2
SRI LANK
SECOND ?EEOaINC&TIONS PROJECT
Selected TeleDhone Statistics
Direct
Direct            Exchange
Country           Population               Exchange           Lines a/
(million)              Lines a/           per 100
('000)            Population
Australia                  16.263                 6,965               42.83
Austria                     7.573                 2,907               38.39
Burma (as of '83)          35.680                    42                0.12
Fiji                        0.715                    34                4.76
Finland                     4.941                 2,156               43.63
France                     56.865                24,804               43.62
Hong Kong                   5.659                 1,989               35._5
India                     776.337                 3,488                0.45
Indonesia                 172.010                   759                0.44
It.aly                     57.422                19,105               33.27
Japan                     122.264                48,014               39.27
Korea R.O.                 42.080                 8.625               20.50
Halaysia                   16.530                 1,132                6.85
Nepal                      17.790                    30                0.17
Netherlands                14.714                 6,234               42.37
New Zealand                 3.349                 1,377               41.12
Norway                      4.199                 1,947               46.37
Pakistan                  100.553                   584                0.58
Papua New Guinea            3.423                    31                0.91
Philippines (as of '85)   54.380                    478                0.88
Singapore                   2.631                   876               33.30
Spain                      39.092                10,236               26.18
Sri Lanka                  16.400                    97                0.59
Sweden                      8.414                 5,480               65.13
Switzerland (as of '86)    6.573                  3,381               51.44
Thailand                   53.873                   902                1.67
U.K.                       56.763                22,137               39.00
a/    This data is described as 'Main Working Lines' in the source document.
The description "Direct Exchange Lines' is, for practical purposes,
synonymous and haa been used in this report.
Sources  1989 Yearbook of Common Carrier Telecommunication Statistics
(16th edition), International Telecommunication Union.



-36-
ANNEX 3
SRI LANK
SECOND TELECOMWNICATIONS PROJECT
Strengthening of Sector Regulations under IDP III (Cr. 1948-CE)
1.    To  ensure  that  the  public  and  private  companies  within  the
telecommunications sector work within the legal and regulatory framework for the
sector, the regulatory Authority has been provided technical assistance and
equipment in the following areas: assistance during the Authority's first year
of operation by foreign experts with adequate experience in the technical,
financial and legal aspects of utility regulation; equipment and training for
allocation, monitoring and management of radio frequencies; training and
equipment for type approval and standards; and, training and equipment for
monitoring of quality of service.
2.    The estimated cost, including contingencies, for above items is US$2.5
million. This amount, plus PPF funds under P-322-CE, have been included as a
telecommunications technical assistance component under the IDP III project to
support its objective of fostering private sector participation in the public
sector and to ensure that the regulatory framework for the telecommunications
sector is effectively implemented.
3.    The Sri Lanka Telecommunications Department  (SLTD) has  finalized an
inventory of relevant SLTD staff and equipment that would be retained by the
Authority for regulatory purposes. The Authority will also retain consultants
with adequate experience under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, to assist
in the preparation of detailed specifications of equipment and, staff training
as well as assisting the Authority during its first year of operation under the
new Telecommunications Act.
4.    A break-up of the IDP III component for teleconmunications is given below:
US$'000
1.  PPF:                                             750
2.  Foreign experts 36 mm & $14,000/mm               500
3.  Equipment & Training in Frequency Mgt.         1,500
4.  Training & Equipment for type approval           250
5. Training & Equipment for
monitoring service quality                     250
6.  Unallocated                                      550
Total (incl. contingencies)                       $3,800
5.    The implementation of this IDP III component has been delayed until the new
Telecommunications Act has been enacted, which is expected to occur in January
1991. At that time, the Authorlty will be legally established and provided a
budget to cover local costs.



-37-                       ANNEX 4
Sri Lanka
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Greater Colombo Telephone Exchanges: Capacity and Demand
Lines in 1989
Zones and Exchanges -----------------------                   Demand
(Name, Code)         Type         Equipped  In Service          1995
COLOMBO CE
1 CO CEN SXS        Strowger        7,200       6,487
2 CO E10 CEN        ElOB            6,624        5,649       65,205
3 CO E10 City       ElOB           20,000       6,385
4 Jaela             ElOB-RSU          960          826        3,892
5 Kollupitiya       ElOB-RSU        2,960       2,492         6,170
6 Hattakkullya      ElOB-RSU        1,424       1,161         2,251
7 Ragama            ElOB-RSU          400          305        1,778
8 Wa tala           ElOB-RSU        1,120          826        5,292
Subtotal:     40,688       24,131       84,588
COLOMBO HK
10 Havelock Town     ElOB           12,000      11,283        29,356
11 Ratmalana (New)   ---               ---          ---
Subtotal:     12,000       11,283       29,356
COLOMBO MO
12 Kadawatta         ElOB-RSU          500          346        1,429
13 Kelaniya          ElOB-RSU        1,250        1,141        3,910
14 Malwana           ElOB-RSU          250          213          582
15 Maradana          ElOB           12,000        7,956       22,492
Subtotals     14,000        9,656       28,413
COLOMBO MV
16 Moratuwa          ElOB-RSU        1,400        1,323        4,621
17 Mount Lavinia     NC-400         12,000        7,445       20,790
18 Piliyandala       ElOB-RSU          500          399        1,511
COLOMBO ND    Subtotals      13,900       9,167        26,922
CwOLONDO K!)
19 Angoda            EIOB-RSU          450          200        1,237
20 Hokandara         ElOB-RSU          415          (is          680
21 Hiomgama          EIOB-RSU          400          338        1,488
22 Kaduela          ElOB-RSU          350          346          843
23 Kotte             ElOB-RSU        5,000        4,642       16,146
24 Mahararama        EIOB-RSU        1,100          946        5,765
25 NuRegoda          ElOB-RSU        4,395        3,597       16,992
26 Paduika           ElOB-RSU          200          105          348
27 Wellampitiya      ElOB-RSU          550          318        1,875
Subtotal:     12,860       10,590       45,374
Totals     93,448      64,827       214,653
Source: SLT
May 1990



-38-                            ANNEX 5
Sri Lanka
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Technology of the Switching Network
Nominal                   Total
SLTC'u      Manufacturer      Technology              Capacity (Lines)  -- Installed Linoo --
Reference                     (a)                      (b)                Dec. 81/89        U
C28 NA      NEC               A - Crossbar            S00/700                  1,600      1.0
C28 SA      Hittachl          A - Crossbar            200/800                    900      0.6
C23 SE      Hittacht          A - SPC                 2,000                    9,960      6.4
CBS 1+8     OEC               Central battery system  1+8                         22      0.0
CBS 2+4     OEC               Central battery system  2.4                         11      0.0
CBS 8+9     OEC               Central battery system  8+9                         81      0.0
CBS 5.20   OEC                Central battery system  6+20                       161      0.1
DS 210      Nokia             D - SPC                 S00                      2,660      1.5
E-OB        CIT               D - SPC                 12,000/20,000           67,000     84.8
E1094RSU    CIT               0 - RSU                 1,024                   84,600     20.8
ERS         Plessey           Electronic (Wired Logic)200                      1,800      0.8
HDX 10      Hittechi          D - SPC                 500                        8oo      0.2
IC          Ofellor           A - Line concentrator   96                         614      0.4
MAO 1.8     GEC               Manual switchboard      1+8                          8      0.0
MAO 2+4     GEC               Manual switchboard      2.4                          4      0.0
MAO 8+9     CEC               Manual switchboard      8+9                         44      0.0
MAO 6+20   GEC                Manual switchboard     6520                         60      0.0
NC 400      NEC               A - Crossbar            12,000                  12,000      7.2
NC 460      NEC               A - Crossbar            1,020/1,500/8,800       12,044      7.8
NEAX 01     NEC               D -SPC                  8,000                    9,912      8.0
RSU (RS)    NEC               D - RSU (Remote Smal)  288                       7,640      4.6
RSU B       Nokia             D -RU                   256                      1,719      1.0
RSU (R)     NEC               D -RSU                  512                      8,926      2.4
SUB PCM     Local             Subscrlibr PCM          80                         116      0.1
SXS         STC               Stroerwr                25/60/100/14,400        10,084      6.0
XB(ITI)    ITI                A - Crossbar            6oo                       6oo       0.4
Total:    166,094       100
(a) At Analog D: Digital RSUs Rmote Subscriber Unlt SPC: Stored Program Control
(b) x + y Indicates x junction lines and y subscriber lines.
Digital Lines:
CIT         E10 e                  91,600    56.1
NEC         NEAX 61                21,877     12.9
Nokia       DS 210                  4,278      2.6
HDX 10      Hitachi                   800      0.2
117,565    70.8
Sources STLC - May 1990



-39-
Sri Lank*aa                                                                                       Io  
SECOND TLECODMMUNICATIONS PIROJECT                                                    Pag  1 of 2
Configuration of tb Long Distance Domestic Network
Inchoen                         From A to S       From I to A     TOWl Numr of Circuits
A        6             Coe       Type       Analog  Digitl   Analog  Digital  Analg  Digital    Total
NSC-TD
Anuradhapura      AD       TSC            ---       60      --        ---        0       60       60
Awloswella        AW       D-SC           ---       17      ---        27        0       44       44
Chilow            CW       X-SC/EO          C      ---       to       ---       24        0       24
Colombo           City     D-EO           ---       6O      ---        60        0      120      120
Colombo           CEN      SXS-EO         1SO      ---      --I ---            10         0      160
Colombo           DSC 1    X-SC/EO         12      ---      ---       ---       12        0       12
Colombo           CEN      D-EO           ---       60      ---      1t0         0      210      210
Free Trade Zone   FTZ      X-SC/EO         86      ---       20       --        S6        0       B6
Golfe             01       TSC            ---       90      - --      ---        0       90       90
Gampaho           Go        X-SC/EO        30      ---       J8       ---       es        0       as
Havelock Town     HK       D-EO           ---       60       ---      180        0      240      240
Kalutrea          KT       O-SC           ---       so        28       30       26       60       a8
Kandy             KY        TSC           ---      120       ---      ---        0      120      120
Kandy             KY       X-SC/EO         25      ---       ---      ---       25        0       25
Kei,91le          KE        D-SC          ---       40       ---       SO        0       90       g0
Kurunegala        KO       D-Sc             7       25         0       U3       87       60       97
Maradr n*        MID       D-EO           ---       60       ---       sO        0      120      120
Mount Lavinia      V        X-SC/EO        40      ---       S1       ---       91        0       91
Negombo           NO        0-SC          ---       25       ---       86        0       60       60
Negombo           No        X-SC/EO       ---      ---        36      --        86        0       35
Panadura          P14       X-SC/EO        19      ---       a3       --5 52              0       62
Polonnaruwa       PO        X-SC/EO        1S      ---                 --        1        0       31
Puttalam          PX        X-SC/EO         4      ---        14                to 16     0        13
Ratnapura         RN       D-Sc            20      ---        26      ---       46        0       46
Subtotal:       3      647       305      627      666     1274      1942
…-------------------------------_----------------------------------__--------__----------------------_--
NSC-X9
Anuradhapura      AD        TSC            14      ---       ---      108       14      108       122
Awisawella        AW       D-SC           ___        9       ---      ---        0        9        9
Chilaw            CW        X-SC/EO         7      --        ---                 7        0         7
Colombo           CEN       SXS-EO        150      ---       --       ---      10         0       ISO
Colombo           CSC II   X-SC/EO         17      ---       100      --       117        0       117
Colombo           CEN      O-EO           120      ---       ---      ---      120        0       120
Colombo           oSC I    X-SC/EO        ---      ---       10l      ---      101        0       101
FrOO Trade Zone   FTZ       X-SC/Eo        24      ---       ---      ---       24        0        24
Gallo             CL        TSC           ---       20       ---      106        0      123       128
Gall.             CL        X-SC/EO        16      ---       ---      ---       1S        0        16
ompah             0o        X-SC/E         16      ---       ---      ---       16        0        16
Kalutara          KT        0-SC            9      ---       ---                 9        0         9
Kandy             KY        TSC           ---       46       ---      180        0      226       226
Kandy             KY        X-SC/EO        20      ---         1        -       20        0        20
Kngollo           KE        0-SC          ---        13      ---       --        0        13       13
Kurungnla         KG        0-SC           17       ---      ---      ---       17        0        17
Mount Lavinia a    V        X-SC/EO        30      ---       ---      ---       30        0        30
Negombo           No        X-SC/EO        27      ---       ---      ---       27        n        27
Panadura          PH        X-SC/EO        15      ---       ---      ---       16        0        15
Puttelam          PX        X-SC/EO         4       ---      ---      ---        4        0         4
Subtotal:    48         86       201      396     6C6       484      1170
nKalutara                         D-SC
sentoto           ST                        7       ---        7      ---       14         0       14
Panadura          PH        X-SC/EO         9       ---       10      ---       19         0       19
Subtotal:      16        0        17        0       33        0        33
Neombo                 No        D-SC
Negombo           NO        X-SC/EO        24       ---       26      ---       SO         0       SO
-- -.-- - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - -..-- - - - -           -e----- - - -         - - - - - - -- - - -- - -



-40-                                  AM= 6
Page 2 of 2
S*CO  TELCOSMNCATIOWS PJECT
Contiluratton of the Long Ol¢tanso Oomtl¢ Newaork
Enthogs                         From A to S        From  toA       Totl llNumr of Circuits
A        O              Cods     TY          Analog  Dlgital  Analog  Digital   Aalog  Dllgtl    TO"al
@011e                   CL       TSC
Golfl             OL        X-SC/EO        29       ---       24       ---       Ss        a        is
H_oww"tota        m6        X-SC/EO         29      --s o              -a                  0        CS
Motors             MN       X-SC/gO        T7       ---      0oo       --       179        0       179
Ratnapura         RN        O-SC           ---       29       --        57        0       Is 
Subtotal:     1T         29      100       57       27                u8s
Kondy                   KY       TSC
Apcre             AP        X-SC/90          9      ---       1S       --        27        0        27
BOdullo           BW        D-SC                     --- 40             tO        0       120      120
Bandarawola       SW        O-SC           ---       46      ---        61        0       106      lO1
Satticaloa        SC        X-SC/EW         21      ---       25       ---       46        0        46
Hotton            NT        X-SC/EO          t      ---       22       ---       as        0        U3
Kelmunal          KL        X-SC/EO          6      ---        S       ---       10        0        tO
Kandy             KY        X-SC/EO         as      ---       92       ---      127         0      127
Matalo             MT       0-SC           ---       12      ---        22        0        34       34
Nawalapitlya      NT        X-SC/EO         12       -         19      ---       SO         0       3O
Nuworo Eltyo      NW        O-SC           ---       47      ---        71        0       113      119
Subtotal:      9        144      100      234       273      3T9      051
Metals                  MT       O-SC
DOmbullo           03                        4      ---         6      ---        10        0       10
Anuradhapura            AD       TSC
Jeffn,            JA        0-SC           ---       49       -        100        0       149      149
Manner             MB       X-SC/EO                            so --  U  ---     sO         0       sO
Polonnaruwn        PO       X-SC/EO         27      -          so      ---       66         0       o6
Trlncoelso         TC       D-SC           ---       20       ---       56        0        U        38
Vavunlys           VA       X-SC/EO         25      -          31      -          6         0       6S
Subtotal:      52        77      10o       1S5      159      232       391
Trincomaloe             TC       D-SC
Trincoml.ee        TC       X-SC/EO         36      -           9      ---        6         0       75
Total:     1210       99S     1041     1469      2251     2454     4705
"SC-TD
ISC                                          7      -          72      ---       79         0       79
Intern'l Soaking  '100'                      4      ---       ---      ---        4         0        4
NSC-XO                                      30                 S9      -9                   0       s9
Total:       41         0      131        0        7         0       172
NSC-Xs
ISC                                          7      ---       -        ---        7         0        7
Internll Booking  0100'                      4      ---       ---      --         4         0        4
Intarn'l Melntn.  '1070                      a      ---                           9         0        3
NSC-TO                                      69      ---        JO      ---        39        0       s9
Total:       76         0       a0        0       108        0       1
De-O:    Digitel End Office                          tSC:      tnt.rnational Switching Center
0-SC:    Digltal Socondnry Conter                   NSC-TD:   National Switching Cantor - Dtgital
SXS-EO:  Stop by Stop End Office                    "SC-Xs:  National Switching CantOr - Cromober
X-SC/EO: Crossbar Secondary Canter/End 0ff-co



-41-
ANNEX 7
Sri Lank.
se  TltCI5ICATIS MA"CT
Intbrentmobnl Telephone Circults  W7-95
-------Actal ..      .    ..                         Foroeast        *
Country                1967      19W       1969         1990     1991      1992      1993     1994      1993
1 Australia                20        20        24          27        31        36       47        56        66
2 Austria                    2        2         2            2        3         3         3        3         4
3 Ohrain                     3        3         3            6        7         a         9       20        20
4 langladeah                 1        1         1                     6 5       5         a        6         7
s Uutan                     0         0         0            0         1        1         1        1         t
6 Canad                      5        *         9           16       23        41        45       49        ss
7 China                      I        I         I            1        2         2         3        3         3
8 0;ibouti                  2         2         2            2        2         3         3        3         3
Eogypt                       I        I         I            I        1         2         2        2         3
10 France                    7         9        13           15       17        19       21        24        27
11 Cer.any F.R.              10       ts        16          25        26        29       29        33        33
12 Hong Kong                21        21        21          24        20        49       69        73        65
13 India                    22        22        23           38                 4 4      5s        64        6O
14 Indone-ia                 2         2         2            2        2         3         3        3         4
IS Italy                     6         a        it           12       13        14       20        20        2'
16i Japan                    1I       17        17           24       26        26       30        33        36
17 Kenya                     0         1         1            3        3         3         4        5         5
18 Kora                      2         2         2            3        S         S         s        5         6
tO Kua.t                      a        4         5            9        9         9        1o       10        1o
20 Malaysa                    1        s         6            9        1o       12       1t         16       20
21 Maldives                   3        3         3           1o        11       12        13        14       16
22 Nepal                      1         1        1            2         2        3         3         3        3
23 Nathorlanda                5         5        5            6         7        12      1t         16        16
24 New Zalend                 0        0         0            0         0        4         8         0        8
2S Oaan                       0        0         0            0         0        4         6         a        a
26 Pakistan                   9         9        9           14        1t       16        20        22       24
279 Qatr                      0        0         0            4         4        6         6         6         7
20 Saudi Arabic              20       20        20           20        22       24        25        26       27
29 Scindins.;                 0        0         0            0         0       32        36        36       40
30 Singanore                 26       26        30           36        36       '2        45        47       49
31 Spain                      4        4         4            4        12        12       12        1t       16
32 Switszrland                a         5        5            6         6         6        7         7        0
33 Taiwan  Chia               3        3         3            3         3        3                   5 
4 Thailand                    1         1        3            6         6        6         7         7        8
35 United Arab Enri.         1i       I1        19           22        24       26        26        28       32
36 United Kingdom            66       66        72           92       loo      112       124       136      146
37 United Statoo             I6        16       16           16        22       22        26       26        26
TOTAL:      296       321       352          466      531       667       770      542       923
Annual Growth S         ---       7.7       9.7        33.0      13.5      25.6      15.4      9.4       9.6
Satellite Cireuits:        211       211       226          333      36        494       5o9      6953   . . t
rabla Circuits:              67      110       124         1.35       145      1,73      161       5l2      1la
Source SLTD
.olombo. May 1990



SRI LANKA TELECOM
Organization Chart
I.~~~~I,
,i f
.P  mecw ftwow-1-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Poe &A
11  The o Ganzton o  ST   fiaces ction will becoplte  upon the appointmentIW
ofmwgw . t De      an        .        i        fincia    de                               ec.
1       l~~~~Elm Fr,                                                               NMSa
W l:3i 4 | q | HH 4 | q |r    ldsU                          op l
} q ~~~~~~~~~~~I    Re"                                                       a 4 I ft                       PWI & IaO4ac|
4  =  I 41 ~~~~~~~~~~hft                               1wn 4-1   4tIsd I
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                 M   1
1/ The organization of SLT's fiuance section will be completed upon the appointment
of the Director Finance, e.g. to include financial budgeting, cash management, etc.                                _Ktk4



ANNEX 9
-43-
Srl Lanka
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
SLTD Staff Competltion and Orowth 1986-1969
Annual
Major Categories                1986     1968      1907     1908     1989 Growth X
Administration                   S88      688       778      764      774       8.2
Officors                       10       10        12       24       24      24.6
Support Staff                 078      828       761      780      760       2.7
Enoginering                    5,647    6,918    6,549    6,628    6,624        0.8
Engineers                     162      170       178      176      176       1.9
Technical Officors            918    1,006      944    1,096    1,092        4.0
Engineering Workmen         4,472    4,786    4,482    4,858    4,867       -0.6
Finance & Accounts               128      126       289      247      284      21.0
Accountants                    12       18        18       18       18       2.0
Support Staff                 111      118      226       284      261      22.6
Traffic                        2,856    1,902    1,842    2,001    2,097       -2.9
Officers                       46       48        27       48       48      -1.1
Support Staff               2,811    1,869    1,616    1,956    2,064       -2.9
Transport                        187      261       256      202      262       8.8
Officers                        7        7         2        7        7       0.0
Support Staff                 180      264      268       265      266       9.1
oeneral                          691      177       196      191       191    -27.6
Total:    9,687    9,212    8,86S    9,0688   9,212       -1.0
Productivity
Teleph. Lines In Service      68,684   87,976   92,760   99,481  101,296        8.4
Telephones (a)               188,026  181,967  189,170  149,147  161,948        8.4
Staff/1000 L. In Serv. (b)       108      106        95       91       91
Staff/1000 Telephoheos            72       70        64       61       61
(a) As complete information on the number of telephones is not available, a ratio
of 1.6 telephones per line In service has been used
(b) For comarison, this ratio Is 9e In Bangladesh (1990) 10 in Ecuador (1987),
86 In FiJi (1987), 100 In India (1986), 60 In Indonesia (1988),
123 In Leo PDR (1988), 64 In Nepal (1990), 87 In Papua N. 0. (1987).
Source: SLTO - May 1990



ANNEX 10
-44-
Srl Lnnka
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Performance Indicator*
End of Year                        Averae
1990      1991      1992      1998       1994      1996  Orowth
Indicators                                -----------------     --- Targets            - - -    p.a.()
Telephone Network
------------------------------------
Exchange Capacity (Lines)                 140,742   156,676   169,410   227,644   267,202   284,202       18.6
Main Lines In Service                     114,296   124,895   184,296   107,295   202,896   288,696       16.4
Exchange Fill (X)                            76.8      80.0       79.8      78.6      76.9      82.2       1.4
Outside Plant Occupancy (U)          (a)       S8        60        62         66        67        69       8.6
Public Call Offless                           600       660        726       800       880       900      6.4
Main Lines in S-rv./100 population           0.64      0.09      0.78       0.90      1.07      1.21      18.6
Subscribers with STD (X)                       9         98         98        99        99        99      0.2
Subscribers wIth ISO (X)                       10        10         10        20        20        26     20.1
Complaints/100 Working Lines-Month:
-Greater Colombo                            60        80        20         12        10         9    -29.0
-Provinces                                  25        25        20         14        12        10    -16.7
Operator Answering Time ( 20 a (X)
-Long Distance                              90        90        95         96        98        99      1.9
-International                              74        80        e6         90        96        9       6.0
Call Completion Rates (X)t
-local calls                                27        85        46         46        45        s0     18.1
-interurban calls (STW)                     26        27        80         80        a8        55     16.2
-international Incoming calls               21        22        22         40        46        50     18.9
Productivity
Staff/1,OO0 Working Telephone Lines            85        80         70        sc        s0        40    -14.0
Financial
Teleph. Revenue/Line (US$)           (b)      660       650       670        680       700       760      2.9
Operating Cost/Tel-ph. Line (US$)   (c)       800       800        805       820       8O        820       1.8
Self-financing Ratio (X)             (cd)      65        42         S1        28        84       180      14.9
Operating Ratio (X)                            41        40         88        42        89        86     -2.6
Current Ratio (times)                         4.0       8.6       2.7       386        4.1       4.1      0.6
Debt/Equity Ratio (X)                          84        88         46        48        49        46      6.2
Debt Service Coverage (times)        (e)      4.5       2.8        2.6       2.6       2.9       8.4    -56.
Return on Assets (X)                           22        14         16        15        1S        16    -4.2
Accounts Recelvables (Equiv.Months) (f)         6         4          3         8         3         a     -9.7
(a)  Subscribers/Pairs connected to Main Distribution Frame.
(b)  Teleph. operating revenue during the period/overage No. of lines In service in that period.
(c) Teleph. operating costs during the period/average No. lines in service during that period.
(d) Net of debt service, taxes, dividends and working capital increase. Percent of the annual capital
expenditure
(e) Net internal cash generation before interest, divided by interest plus amortization.
(f) Total account receivables divided by average revenue per day for each category of subscribers.
Source: SLTC - November 1990



-45-
Page I of 4
SECOND TULZCmWNICATnOI  P1OJ*C1
Tariff Reulatiom for SL?se License
PRICIS FOR SUVTCuS
1.    On the Effective Date of the License, the Operator shall charge the same
tariffs charged by the Telecommunications Department in Sri Lanka imiediately
before the Transfer Date as defined in the Act.
2.    The Operator shall be entitled to propose changes in tariffs as seen in his
commercial judgment suited best to promote the objects of the operator and to
fulfill the conditions of its license.   Thev* changes in tariffs shall be
supported by actual cost of investments, maintenance and operations incurred in
providing the service and other relevant factors and shall be subject to the
approval of the Authority in accordance with the folloving:
(a)   With respect to domestic rentals, business rentals and call charges
excluding  international  call  charges  (such  items  excluding
*International Call charges hereinafter referred to as Main Tariff
Items")%
(i)   the rate of increase may be equal to or less than the rate of
inflation less two (2) percentage points over the period since
the previous change in Main Tariff Items;
(ii) the rate of increase in the Main Tariff Items shall be
determined by calculating the percentage increase in total
revenue from the Main Tariff Items which would result from the
proposed changes in tariff to any item therein as specified in
(c) based on the assumption that the subscribers and the
domestic calls and the relevant composition thereof are same
at the date of the previous change in the main tariff items.
(iii) the Operator shall be entitled to propose different rates or
amounts for any item comprised in the Main Tariff Items or to
introduce new categories of items subject to tariff provided
that the aggregate increace does not exceed the increase
specified in sub-paragraph (a) as calculated in accordance
with sub-paragraph (b) and (d), and provided that no item may
be increased by more than the rate of inflation.
(iv)  the rate of inflation specified in paragraph (a) shall be the
percentage increase in the level of the Colombo Cost of Living
Index (or such other index as may be agreed) between the
latest month of publication prior to the date of the proposed
change in Main tariff Items and the month of publication of
equivalent interval of elapsed time prior to the date of the
previous change in main Tariff Items provided that in the case



AMNEX 11
-46-                            Pago 2 of 4
of the flrst proposed change the date of the previous change
in Mali Tariff Itema shall be deened to be the E£ffctive DateI
(v)   changes in tariffs of any Ltem(s) which, in aggregate, have no
effect on total revenue from Main Tariff items as calculated
in sub-paragraph (b) and (d) above sball not be consldered a
change in Main Tariff items for the purpose of thLs sub-
paragraph.
If the proposed changes to tariffs for the Main Tariff Items moet the
aforesaid criteria the Authority shall approve the proposed changes
submitted by the Operator.
(b)   With  respect  to Internatlonal  Call Charges and  International
Television Services the AuthorLty shall in considerLng any proposed
changes by the Operator be guided by the general objectives set out
in Section 4 of the Act and shall also take into account the costs
of provisLon of servlce, demand for international servLce,
procedures and determination of accounting rates agreed to by the
participants, international exchange rates, and covenant entered
into when foreign loans were negotiated and the policies of
telecommunications authorLtLes in other countries.
tc)   With  respect  to  connection,  removal,  leased  circuits,  and
miscellaneous charges, the AuthorLty shall in considering any
changes proposed by the Operator be guided by the general objectives
set out in Section 4 of the Act and shall also take into account
costs of provision of the servlce, levels of demand for the service
in relation to avallable capacity, the desirability of promoting the
development of telecommunications facillties throughout the island
and,   where   relevant,   ths   nature   of   competition   for
Telecommunications Services. If the Authority does not agree wlth
the tariffs proposed by the Operator, the Operator shall be entitled
to make representations to the Authority.
In thls Clause, Miscellaneous Charges refers to transfer fees, restoration
charges, charges of directory entries, charges for part time release of
trunk and junctLon circuits, deposits for message fees, trunk call fees
and phonogram fees, call office fees, message fees, charges for fault
repair and additional fees for priority connectlons.
3.    If the rate of inflation has been negative for any twelve-month period
following a change ln Main Tariff Items, the Authority may require the Operator
to propose changes in tarlffs such as the rate of decresae in Main Tariff Items
is equal to or greater than the rate of deflation over the period since the
previous change in Maln Tariff Items.
4.    Subject to the Authority's power to act to ensure compliance with the
Operator's duty pursuant to conditlon 16, not to engage in Anti-Competitive
Practices, the Operator's tariffs in respect of all servLces other than those
enumerated in paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) of Condition 2 shall not be subject to
the approval of the Authority.



&RI LANKA
SECOND TELECOMMUNICArIONO PROJECT
ble.aommunlostloas Tariffs 1681 - lose
300
250
Colombo C.P.I. /a
I  Tel Rental/
Dom Charges  200
-6- Intl Charges                                              4*
Telex Charges
150
100
1vO_ 1981 198219831984 98519861987198819891990
Colombo C.P.i. /a     100  111 126 147 149  161 174 198 236 280
Tel Rentals           100 100 140 140  161  161  151  151  161  151
Dom Charges           100 100 129  161  161  151  151 173 173 173
Intl Charges          100 100 126 126    126 1125 145 146 156                *
Telex Charges        100 100 125 126 126 125 12   161  161  171
/a DPeomber



*RI LANKA
*ECOND TULECOMMUNICWIONO PROJECT
Thleoommumleatlona Tariffs 1000 - 1*0?
200
Colombo Dec C.P.l.
160 
-t-   Telephone Rentals                                                                             IOD
100 1990 19111992 1993 1994 1996 1996 1997
|Colombo Dec C.P.I.                   100    112   120   127   135   143   162   161
i Telephone Rentals                   100   100   117   122   127   132. 137   142                        I
*atermatilaal @11 *ad telex Chargb
w:oJect.d to follow Colombo CPS trend.
Domestic aehries some trend as reatals.



-49-                              ANNEX12
Page 1 of 4
Sri Lanka
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Principal Telecommunications Tariffs
(January 1, 1990)
Rates in Rs
A. TELEPHONE
1. Local Service
a. Application for telephone connection (offset                           250
against connection charges at the time of
provision of service)
b. Connection Fee
- Subscriber Trunk Dialling (STD) exchanges                          7,500
- Non STD exchanges                                                  2,750
c. Unit Call Charge (2 minutes)
- From subscriber telephone                                           1.35
- From Call Office                                                    3.70
d. Annual Rental Charge
- Business and commercial Government Departments                     1,000
- Other Government Departments                                         400
- Private subscribers 1                                                400
- Religious institutions                                               225
- Coin box telephones:
o with incoming facility                                           1,000
o Hotels, clubs, etc. with incoming facility                       1,000
o Religious institutions, without incoming facility                  400
e. Deposit for the facility of originating trunk calls                    150
and telegrams read by telephone (phonograms)
f. Deposit for the facility of originating international                  500
calls
g. Deposit for International Subscriber Dialling (ISD):
- Regular subscribers                                                5,000
- Hotels and other authorized agencies                              25,000
h. Reconnection fee (Line is disconnected if the                          100
outstanding bill is not settled within 6 weeks)
1 Will be increased to Rs 1,000 as from April 1, 1991.



-50-                             AMEX 12
Page 2 of 4
Principal Telecommunications Tariffs
(January 1, 1990)
Rates in Rs
2. National Long Distance
a. Manual Traffic (Operator controlled calls)
Distance                                        Charge/3 min or fraction
Within the same switching center                                        2
Less than 40 miles                                                      3
Between 40 and 110 miles                                                4
Over 110 miles                                                          6
Between 6 pm and 8 am, these fees are reduced by 50%.
b. Semiautomatic Traffic (Operator connected calls)
Standard Rate (a)             Cheap Rate (b)
First 3 min  Addl. 3 min   First 3 min  Addl. 3 min
Distance           or fraction   or fraction   or fraction   or fraction
Within the same
Switch. center         3.70          2.70          3.70          2.70
Less than 20 mi.        6.40          5.40          3.70          2.70
20-50 miles             9.10          8.10          5.10          4.10
50-70 miles            14.50         13.50          7.80          6.80
70-120 miles           17.20         16.20          9.10          8.10
Over 120 miles         25.30         24.30         13.20         12.20
c. Automatic Traffic
--- Pulse Metering----    --- Charge for 3 min---
Standard       Cheap      Standard        Cheap
Distance               Rate (a)      Rate (b)   Rate (a)       Rate (b)
(sec)         (sec)         (Rs)          (Rs)
Less than 20 mi.          50           100          4.90          2.50
20-50 miles               30            60          8.10          4.10
50-70 miles               18            36         13.50          6.80
70-120 miles              15            30         16.20          8.10
Over 120 miles            10            20         24.30         12.10
... .......  ................................. ............... .................................................. ... ... .
(a) Standard Rate:  From 8 am to 6 pm, Monday through Friday, excluding
public holidays.
(b) Cheap Rate:     From 6 pm to 8 am, Monday through Friday, and during
the full 24 hour period on Saturdays, Sundays and
public holidays.



-51-                               AMEX 1i2
Page 3 of 4
Principal Telecomunmications Tariffs
(January 1, 1990)
Rates in Rs
3. International Calls (Examples of call charges)
First 3 min or Fraction         Each Additional Minute
Collection     Accounting      Collection      Accounting
Destination               Rate            Rate           Rate            Rate
India           P-P      290.00          144.75          58.00           48.25
S-S     174.00          144.75           58.00           48.25
Japan           P-P      415.00          354.63           83.00         118.21
s-S     249.00          354.63           83.00          118.21
Kuwait          P-P      540.00          331.05          108.00         110.35
S-S     324.00          331.05          108.00          110.35
United Kingdom  P-P      540.00          289.50          108.00           96.50
S-S     324.00          289.50          108.00           96.50
United States   P-P      605.00          300.00          121.00         100.00
S-S     363.00          300.00          121.00         100.00
P-P: Person-to-Person calls    S-S: Station-to Station calls
The Report Charge (when the called person is not available or does not accept the
call) is equivalent to one-minute rate.
"Cheap Rate" ISD service is available from Midnight to 6:00 am for the following
countries at the rate of SLR 27/min: Bangladesh, India, Nepal, Pakistan, Maldive
Islands.
B. TELEX
a. Connection Fees
- Central Colombo and Havelock Town:                                  1,250
- Other areas: 1,250 or the estimated installation
cost. whichever is higher.
b. Annual Rental Charges
- Equipment rental, when supplied by SLTD                               Nil
- Equipment rental, when supplied by the subscriber                  36,000
- Loop rental                                                        15,000



-52-                              AE12
Page 4 of 4
Principal Telecommimlcations_TarLfs
(January 1, 1990)
Rates in Rs
c. International Call Charges (Examples for Operator assisted calls)
Collection Rate        Accounting Rate
Destination                           per minute               per minute
India                                    62.00                    40.53
Japan                                    73.00                   106.15
United Kingdom                           72.00                    80.10
United States                            82.00                   120.00
C. TELEGRAPH
Ordinary rate:  - per 10 words or less                             1.50
- each additional word                            0.25
Urgent rate:                                  Double the ordinary rate
Phonograms:                   The usual charge plus 1.75 per telegram
Source: SLTC - May 1990



ANNEX 13
-53-                    Page 1 of 5
SRI LANKA
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANTS IN CORPORATE PLANNING,
NETWORR PLANNING AND ENGINEERING AND OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE
Introduction:
1.    The Sri Lanka Telecom (SLT) was formed on February 6, 1990 with the
objective of taking over the telecommunications operations from the Sri Lanka
Telecommunications  Department  (SLTD).    The  regulatory  functions  for  the
telecommunications sector will be under a regulatory Authority within the
Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications (MOPT).
2.    The Government (GOSL) has decided to expand and improve telecommunications
services throughout Sri Lanka. By the end of 1995, the number of direct exchange
lines (DELs) is expected to increase from currently about 120,000 to about
250,000, more than doubling the network capacity. The cable network and long-
distance facilities would also be expanded and new, state of the art,
international facilities will be installed to handle projected traffic increases.
The World Bank, ADB, OECF, ITU, DANIDA and others are supporting GOSL/SLT's 1991-
95 investment program, which is expected to exceed $250 million equivalent.
3.    The institutional strengthening of SLT is critical if it is to expand and
operate the network efficiently.   The World Bank has provided technical
assistance (TA) for sector restructuring and institutional development, including
commercial accounting systems for SLT; ADB will fund TA and equipment for SLTC's
information systems; ITU and GOSL have agreed on ITU assistance in network
planning; and, UNDP will fund training, management development and other TA, to
be implemented with ITU assistance.
4.    To develop SLT's capabilities to efficiently expand and operate the
telecommunications network, SLT would also need assistance in developing its
corporate planning, network planning and traffic engineering and operations and
maintenance procedures.
Oblectives
5.    The objective of the consultancies is to develop SLT's procedures and
capabilities in the areas referred to in para 4 above to the point where it can
independently plan for and implement future telecommunications development plans
and operate the expanded network efficiently. The consultant should identify
itself fully with the needs and objectives of SLT and provide it with suitable
advice and experienced personnel as necessary.



-54-
ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 5
Criteria for Identification of the Consultant(s):
6.    The consultant(s)  should have excellent knowledge and experience  in
corporate planning, network planning and traffic engineering and operations and
maintenance   procedures   for   commercially   oriented   telecommunications
administrations.   The consultants will work with SLT counterparts to ensure
transfer of know-how and on-the-job training.
Scope of Services:
7.    General: On assignment, the consultant(s) will promptly plan the necessary
work to achieve the objectives set out in para 5 above. This will involves
(a)   review of SLT's organization and procedures in the relevant areas
and make recommendations on systems and procedures, as necessary;
(b)   assist in the implementation of systems and procedures referred to
in (a) above; and
(c)   provide to the fullest extent possible on-the-job training to SLT
counterpart staff at all levels.
8.    Detailed assignments are attached for the following disciplines:   (i)
corporate planning; (ii) network planning and traffic engineering; and (iii)
operations and maintenance development.
9.    The ADB supported computerization plan for SLT will have an impact on
nearly all aspects of SLT operations. The consultant(s) should, therefore, study
SLT's ADB supported, computerization strategy and tailor its assistance to SLT
to fit this strategy.   The consultant(s)  for network planning should also
familiarize themselves with the ITU assisted study for the establishment of a
Development Planning Centre. The consultant(s) may suggest amendments and/or
additions to the computerization plan and other specific TA provided by IDA, ADB
and ITUIUNDP, as SLT's needs may dictate.
10.   To ensure adequate coordination and cooperation between the institutions
providing TA to SLT, SLT will establish a high level Coordination Group within
the proposed Corporate Planning Unit. This group will meet on a regular basis
with relevant institutions, including IDA, ADB, OECF and ITU, and coordinate and
monitor the consultants' performance as well as expedite all technical and
administrative matters among the parties concerned.
Financing:
11.   IDA, on GOSL's request, will fund the cost of this consultancy as agreed
at the negotiations with IDA for the proposed Second Telecommunications Project,
held in February 1991.



-55-
ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 5
Assistance to be Provided by SLT:
12.   SLT will provide the fcllowing services and facilities to the consultants:
(a)   counterparts in all relevant disciplines;
(b)   assistance and advice in obtaining visas, customs clearances and any
other administrative permits required by the staff of the
Consultant(s) in the performance of their assignments;
(c)   relevant data available in SLT;
(d)   office space and secretarial staff in Sri Lanka;
(e)   transport as required within Sri Lanka;
(f)   liaison with government and local bodies; and
(g)   any other assistance that the consultants may reasonably request.
Time Schedule:
13.   The consultant(s) are expected to be assigned by August 31, '991, complete
the tasks under para 7 (a) by August 31, 1992, and after a review and agreement
with SLT and IDA, assist SLT in the implementation of new systems and procedures
and training of staff as necessary.
14.   Details of Assignments:
A. Corporate Planning:
Obiective: To assist SLT to institute a corporate planning function, develop
appropriate methodologies to formulate initial short, medium and long-term
corporate plans, and monitor the fulfillment of corporate objectives and plans.
This will require the coordination and consolidation of inputs from SLT's
finance, development planning and human resources divisions.
Scope of Work
(a)   Assist in integrating SLT's financial planning into the management
information system and the budgeting and corporate planning cycle.
(b)   Analyze the interactions  of financing requirements,  investment
options and human resource requirements and make recommendations as
necessary.
(c)   Study the effect on financial performance of alternative policies
with respect to unit cost of investmer.ts, tariffs, financing
sources, pace of program implementation, etc. and advise management
of recommended procedures.



-56-
ANNEX 13
Page 4 of 5
(d)   Assist SLT in identifying income and cost factors within SLT's
control, and how they depend on program implementation, network
performance and/or staff productivity.
(e)   Identify the methodologies and short, medium and long-term plans and
other outputs necessary to establish corporate planning in SLT.
(f)   Identify suitable corporate objectives.
(g)   Identify  data  requirements  and establish  reporting  formats  to
monitor the fulfillment of corporate objectives and plans.
(h)   Help implement corporate planning systems.
(i)   Assist managers and key finance department staff in the use of
corporate planning systems.
Estimated staffmonths for this assignment:  24 sm.
Comments: The corporate planning model would require inputs from SLT's HIS,
network planning and human resource development areas, which will be reviewed
with UNDP/ITU assistance. It would also make use of SLT's computer facilities,
which are being developed with the support of ADB.  The consultant(s) should
therefore familiarize themselves with the TA assistance provided by UNDP/ITU and
ADB.
B.    Network Planning and Traffic Engineering:
Objective: To strengthen the network planning and traffic engineering unit for
SLT, to achieve the competence required to design an efficient and economic
network and for its continued monitoring and upgrading.
Scope of Work:
(a) Traffic Engineering:
Enhance SLT's capabilities in traffic measurement and collection
techniques, traffic analysis, including preparation of computer programs,
and set up traffic data bases, and design the flow of traffic through the
network, taking into account security of service and economic aspects.
(b) Network Planning:
Enhance SLT's capabilities in economic location of transit trunk
exchanges, local exchanges, tandem exchanges and remote units, system
design and preparation of specifications, including design of signalling
networks, network synchronization, and traffic routing and circuit
provisions.
(c) Provide on-the-job training, and training abroad.



-57-
ANNEX 13
Page 5 of 5
Estimated Manmonths:
Project coordinator and Network planning expert          24 sm
Traffic Expert                                            6
Short-term Consultants (Switching, Transmission,         10
Signalling, Computerization, Synchronization)
Total                                                    40
B. Operations and Maintenance Development:
Obiective: To upgrade SLT's operations and maintenance divisions with a view to
increasing its productivity and efficiency.
Scope:
(a)   Review the operations and maintenance organization
and procedures at headquarters and regional levels and propose
suitable changes.
(b)   Review the maintenance and fault clearance practices and procedures
for  exchange  equipment,   outside  plant,   subscriber  plant,
transmission facilities and propose changes as necessary, in light
of SLT's needs and new technology developments.
(c)   Set up maintenance and technical standards and provide a manual of
maintenance instructions.
(d)   Review existing operational standards of quality of service and
propose suitable standards as necessary.
(e)   Set up procedures for undertaking technical investigations.
(f)   Advise on spare parts management and the setting up of a National
Repair Center.
(g)   Advise on staffing and training requirements of the maintenance
staff.
Estimated staffmonths project coordinator and maintenance expert 18 sm
Short-term consultants (Computers, manpower planning, etc.)           6
Total                                                                24
D. Fellowships, Study Tours and Seminars
The consultant(s) will arrange for a total of about 30 manmonths of
fellowships, study tours and seminars in relevant areas for about 6 senior SLT
staff and 20 trainees.



-58-                                      ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 7
Sril Lnks
SECOtO TEZI9U4ICATZONS P0.J1E
Inveatment Progea 1990-9S
(Currency: U8I  Million)
--- Totel 1990-95 --
Program Component.                         Local Foreign Total Funding Seurce
A   ONODINO wORKS
1 CAOS IV - Nucegod.                          0.79   3.64   4.4S Prfnec
2 Haters   I                                  2.08  11.71  18.70 FINMWA
S Haters - II                                 2.00  15.71  10.81 FP NDA
4 IDA Emargency Rec. and Rehab.                1.85   6.70  0.05 IMA
Subtot*ft   0."  87.70  44.74
a   OTHE WORKS IN THE 1990-95 PROWRAN
1 Main Rehab. N & E                           6.00  84.00  40.00 0AM4DA/SIOA
2 0Ompshe and Katunayake                      18.85 28.86  80.8 OEBF
3 Colombo City Exchange (15,000 lines)         8.79  12.20  10.08 n.s.
Subtotal:       25.4 ;69.87  98.01
C   PROJECT
C. i WORKS RJIOE BY ADO
I International Switching Center.              4.40  14.10  16.66 ADS
Earth Station and Beckhaul Ta.
2 Trunk Tren.aieaion Network                   S.72  22.78  28.40 ADD
3 Information Systems                          0.70   2.00   8.48 ADS
4 Technical Assistance                        0.28   0.09   0.92 ADD
Subtotal         11.20 40.28 81.48
C.2 WORKS PROPOSED TO BE RI0  BY IMA
Colombo:
I    Local Exchanses (38.600 lines)           7.80  24.80 81.60 IDA
2    Tandem Exchangees                         1.8   6.00  7.60 tDA
Provinces.
8    Exchange Equipment (17.086 line.)         8.60  12.20  15.80 IDA
4    Outaide Plant                            10.80   7.00  17.80 DA
3 Exchange Rehebilitation                      1.80   8.00   4.50 WA
6 Telegraph Equipmnt                           1.10  2.00   8.10 DA
7 Technical Assistance                         0.00   2.80   2.80 WA
Subtotal:        26.00  87.00  08.00
C.3 OTHER WORKS IN TWE PROJECT
1 National Switching Center                    1.23  4.30   8.59 Frunce
2 0. Colombo Netw. Improvemnt end TA           7.20  s0.92  44.12 OECP
s Spur Transaission Link.                      2.00   6.60  10.60 n.m.
4 Subhciber Torminal.                          0.78   4.78   8.51 Subhcri;ber
S Buildings and Stores                         2.40  0.40   2.80 SLT
6 Technical Assistance UMDP/ITU                0.00   1.00   1.00 UNDP/1TU
Subtotalt        13.56  U6.08  09.3
Total Project Coat:        80.76 188.83 204.11
Total Program Coat:        02.91 20.94 348.a0
Source: SU - may-Oct. 1990



lv   nt Progrm 1990-95 (US6 Mill ions)
..-.... IM - - ---- ------- 1991 ------ ------- 1992 ------- ------ 1993  - --------- 1994 -- - -- - --- 1995  ----Totall990-95-
Prerm Components               Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Lcal Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Totl
A    00034 WORKS                    1.30  7.43  8.82  1.96  0.18 10.14  0.84  6.44  7.27  1.18  4.66  S.64  0.95  5.57  6.52  0.68  5.47  6.1S  6.99 37.75 44.74
a anE W CS IN THE 1990-95 PSOMW    0.00  0.00  0.00  2.57 10.20 12.77 13.13 32.66 45.79  7.54 20.96 28.80  1.90  6.04  7.94  0.00  0.00  0.00 25.14 69.67 95.01
C     .T
C.1 WRS RNED B1Y ADS
1 International Switching Center.  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.34  0.00  0.34  1.90  2.33  4.23  1.21  7.91  9.12  0.00  1.14  1.14  0.00  0.00  0.00  3.45 11.39 14.84
Erth Station and Backhawl Tx.
2 Truk Transmission Network       0.00  0.00  0.00  0.86  0.00  0.86  0.66  3.52  4.38  1.54  3.52  5.07  1.04  5.64  6.67  0.00  4.93  4.93  4.30 17.62 21.92
3 Informtion Syste                0.00  0.00  0.00  0.16  0.00  0.16  0.40  0.85  1.26  0.06  0.66  0.72  0.00  0.62  0.62  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.62  2.14  2.76
4 Technical Assistance            0.02  0.07  0.09  0.06  0.17  0.23  0.06  0.17  0.23  0.06  0.17  0.23  0.03  0.10  0.14  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.23  0.69  0.92
SOaic Cost: 0.02  0.07  0.09  1.42  0.17  1.59  3.22  6.89 10.10  2.67 12.27 15.14  1.07  7.50  s.57  0.00  4.93  4.93  8.60 31.83  40.43
Fhysical Continencies           0.00  0.00  0.00  0.14  0.00  0.14  0.82  0.67  0.99  0.28  1.21  1.49  0.10  0.74  0.84  0.00  0.49  0.49  0.64  3.11  3.95
Price Continencies              0.00  0.00 O o0  0.12  0.00  0.12  0.54  0.66  1.21  0.73  1.84  2.57  0.37  1.53  1.90  O.O  1.30  1.30  1.76  5.33  7.09
Subtoal: 0.02  0.07  0.09  1.67  0.17  1.05  4.08  8.22 12.30  3.68 15.32 19.2D  1.54  9.77 11.31  0.00  6.73  6.73 11.20 40.28 51.45
C.2 WONG ROPOSD TO BE RFNED BY IDA
Coleo:
I   tcal Exchmange (35,600 lines)    0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  3.12 11.86 14.96  0.00  0.00  0.00  1.77  7.0S  6.80  0.46  1.94  2.42  5.37 2D.83 25.20
2   Tadem Exchanges               0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.75  2.96  3.68  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.42  1.74  2.16  0.11  0.48  0.59  1.29  6.14  6.43
Proinces: 
S   Exchane Equipmnt (17.060 I irc) 0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  1.60  5.95  7.45  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.65  3.53  4.36  0.23  0.97  1.20  2.18 10.46 13.03  0
4   Ouide PIlnt                   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  4.77  3.73  6.50  1.60  1.20  2.70  0.71  0.86  1.29  0.67  0.86  1.23  7.64  6.06 13.71
S Ehdamg Rehabllitation           0.00  0.00  0.00  0.24  0.65  0.60  0.79  1.86  2.68  0.11  0.20  0.36  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  1.15  2.67  3.62
6 Telegralh Equipamt             0.00  0.00  0.00  0.18  0.37  0.65  0.42  0.69  1.30  0.24  0.51  0.75  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.63  1.77  2.60
7 Technieal Aemltance             0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.92  0.92  0.00  0.44  0.44  0.00  0.43  0.43  0.00  0.41  0.41  0.00  0.00, 0.00  0.0  2.20  2.20
Basic Coat: 0.00  0.00  0.00  0.42  1.84  2.26 11.35 27.66 39.01  1.84  2.40  4.24  3.75 13.29 17.04  1.49  3.95  S.44 13.06 49.14 67.99
Physical Contingencies                            0.04  0.09  0.13  1.14  1.38  2.52  0.1U  0.12  0.30  0.37  0.66  1.04  0.15  0.2D  0.35  1.89  2.46  4.34
Price Contingenies                               0.06  0.07  0.12  2.51  2.13  4.64  0.66  0.20  0.84  1.44  2.12  3.56  0.70  0.60  1.51  5.20  5.40 10.68
SubtotAl: 0.00  0.00  0.00  0.52  2.00  2.52 15.00 31.18 46.17  2.5S  2.00  5.36  5.57 16.08 21.64  2.34  4.95  7.29 20.00 57.00 e3.00
C.S GYM  M    Dm TIE PROJEr
1 Natioal Switching Center       0.00  0.00  0.00  0.39  0.00  1.19  0.57  3.10  8.07  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.96  3.90  4.#6
2 Ieter Colo,o Nate. I'roweent   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.23  1.31  1.59  3.27 19.68 22.93  1.64  9.49 11.03  0.29  1.63  2.12  0.00  0.00  0.00  5.34 32.s3 37.67
3 Spur Transmission Unks         0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.91  4.56  5.49  0.43  2.21  2.64  0.1   0.71  0.85  0.00  0.00  0.00  1.47  7.50,  .97
4 Subecriber Terminals            0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.40  2.96  8.36  0.11  0.62  0.92  0.05  0.39  .44  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.56  4.17  4.72
5 Bui Idings Wa  Stores           0.00  0.00  0.00  0.70  0.15  0.93  0.73  0.14  0.67  0.34  0.07  0.41  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  1.8s  0.36  2.21
6 Technical Aesiatanc frm fTU     0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.46  0.46  0.00  0.44  0.44  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.96  0.90
Basic Cost: 0.00  0.00  0.00  1.41  2.77  4.18  5.7 30.868 36.75  2.42 12.56  as.00  0.48  2.94  3.41  0.00  0.00  0.00 10.10 49.16 59.34
Psical Contingancies                              0.14  0.14  0.20  0.69  1.54  2.13  0.24  0.63  0.67  0.05  0.15  0.19  0.00  0.00  0.00  1.82  2.46  3.48
Price Contingencies                               0.18  0.10  0.20  1.30  2.36  8.67  0.73  1.45  2.21  0.18  0.47  0.65  0.00  0.00  0.00  2.39  4.43  6.61
Subtotl: 0.00  0.00  0.00  1.73  3.01  4.74  7.76 34.60 42.65  3.39 14.69 16.06  0.71  3.55  4.26  0.00  0.00  0.00 13.56 56.05 69.63
TOTAL FROJET UASE COST: 0.82  0.07  0.09  3.26  4.76  8.03 20.44 65.48 86.67  7.13 27.25 34.39  5.30 23.73 29.02  1.49  O.6O  10.37 37.63 130.13 167.77  lb
TOTAL PROJWT COST: 0.82  0.07  0.09  3.92  5.18  9.10 26.83 74.19 101.82  9.65 32.01 42.56  7.61 23.40 37.21  2.34 11.68 14.82 30.70 153.s3 204.11   *  M
TOTAL 1ROWRN COST: 1.41  7.60  6.91  6.46 23.66 32.02 40.79 113.29 154.08 18.57 66.43 77.00 10.6  41.01 51.67  3.82 17.15 20.17 62.91 260.94 343.65  X
0  .1
Source: tLT - Ny-Oct. 1990                                                                                                                                       1g
DD/SLAMAO6:DEWFR-2 21-Feb-91



-60-               ~ANNEX 14
Page 3 of 7
Sri Lanka
SECOND TCLECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Program and Project Description
The investment Program in the period 1990-95 consists of the following
major components:
A.    Ongoing Works
B.    Other Works in 1990-95
C.    The Projects
C.1. Works Funded by ADB
C.2. Works Proposed to be Funded by IDA
C.3. Other Works necessary for the Project
Ongoing Works
1.    Under the Colombo Area Development Scheme (CADS), Phase IV, two exchanges
(Colombo City: 20,000 lines; Maradana: 12,000 lines) were commissioned in June
1989 to replace old equipment and provide additional capacity. Installation of
a new 8,000 line exchange at Nugegoda in 1991-92 has been approved.
2.    Development of Matara area will take place in two Phases, under FINNIDA
grants. Phase I includes 1,800 new lines to be installed in 1992-93, and Phase
II 2,520 lines in 1993-94, as well as outside plant, transmission systems,
ancillary equipment, and training.
3.    IDA emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1883-CE)
for the North and East areas is providing telephone exchanges for Digana, Jaffna
and Trincomalee (500 lines each), PABXs, telephone sets, cables, and multiaccess
radio systems. Installation will be completed in 1990-91.
Other Works in the 1990-95 Program
1.    Further rehabilitation of the North and East areas is under study by
DANIDA/SIDA. Approval would be obtained in early 1991 and installations (about
9,000 lines/year) would commence in 1993.
2.    Improvement of telecommunications networks  in Gampaha and Katunayake
secondary center areas would be financed by OECF, including about 7,000 lines for
replacement of old equipment, cable networks (19,150 pairs and PCM systems),
digital radio systems (UHF, 34 Mbls), power supply equipment, and civil works,
to be installed in 1993-94.
3.    In addition to the capacity proposed to be funded under the Project (ICB
procedures), the Government is considering sole source procurement of 18,000
lines to expand existing exchanges in Colombo area. Installation would start in
1993-94.



-61-
ANNEX 14
Page 4 of 7
ProJect Components to be Funded by ADB
1.    International Facilities
The following facilities are included in the Project to expand the capacity
for international traffics
a)    an INTELSAT Standard A satellite earth station co-located wlth the
existing Standard A station at Padukka, which will operate with
digital carriers and will provide TV links (including high-
definition TV) in the 6/4 GHz and 14/11 GHz frequency bandst
b)    a digital international telephone exchange co-located with the
existing analog international exchange in Colombo, with CCITT No.5
and No. 7 signalling capabilities and billing information recording
facilities;
c)    a digital radio link (1+2) between the new earth station at Padukka
and the new international exchange at Colombo, working at 140 Mb/s
and 8 GHz:
d)    an International Transmission Maintenance Center  (ITHC) and an
International Television Center (ITC) in Colombo.
2.    Trunk Transmission Network
Radio transmission network for LD traffic will be expanded on seven major
routes, and two new routes will be developed. Besides these radio systems and
additional multiplex equipment, a network maintenance supervisory system will be
established with monitoring and clearing centers at Colombo, Anuradhapura, Kandy,
and Galle, and monitory units at all stations in the network.
3.    Information Systems
This component includes computer hardware, application software, and data
communications equipment to introduce a Management Information System and
establish a subscriber data base (applicable to maintenance, accounting, billing,
etc.).
4.    Consulting Services
A total of 37 foreign staff-months (8-m) and 6 local s-m will be provided
as consulting services for preparing designs, specifications, and tender
documents, supervising the installation, assisting SLT in the acceptance testing
of the new systems, and preparing maintenance guidelines. Consulting services
for the design, specification and installation supervision of the information
systems will be financed under an ADB's advanced technical assistance grant which
aims at strengthening the institutional capability of SLT in the areas of
information systems design and implementation, improved customer billing and
collection, and workshop procedures and practices.



-62-                             ANNEX 14
Page 5 of 7
S.    Training
Training programs, with a total of 9 m-m of foreign trainers and 80 m-m of
SLT trainees, will be included in supply and installation contracts.
Project Components to be Funded by IDA
Works under IDA project include the expansion of switching capacity in
Colombo and the rehabilitation of some of the existing exchanges, new telephone
exchanges and local networks in seven provincial regions, improvement of the
telegraph service, and technical assistance, as follows:
1.    Telephone Service in Colombo
(a)   Switching capacity will be expanded by about 35,600 lines (see Annex
---). The remote subscriber units (RSUs) existing at four places
will be replaced by stand-alone exchanges and a new exchange will be
installed in Ratmalana. About 20,700 lines will be relocated after
expansion of the exchanges. The entire switching network will be
reconfigured to satisfy the traffic demand in certain areas and to
improve traffic handling among the tandeA exchanges and the new
national switching center (NSC).  SLT has been assisted by ITU
experts in the design of the reconfigured network.  This project
will be complemented bys (i) the expansion of the cable network,
under an OECF project; and (ii) the establishment of a new NSC to be
financed by France.
(b)   Several exchanges in Colombo require equipment to replace subscriber
units that have been taken for maintenance work.   The project
includes funds for the procurement of these units and exchange
rehabilitation and upgrading to their design capacity.
2.    Telephone Service in the Provinces
Seven provincial areas where existing obsolete equipment would have to be
replaced have been are included in the project. Seven parent exchanges will be
provided along with remote units in 24 townships and a total of about 17,000
lines. IDA funds have also been provided for the local cable networks at these
sites but not for the transmission links to the parent exchanges which will be
financed from bilateral sources or by GOSL/SLT.
3.    Telegraph Service
The present service, based on the telex exchange installed at Colombo and
teleprinters operating in SLT's offices and main post offices, will be improved
by installing a store-and-forward message unit in SLT's premises in Colombo,
which will serve up to 120 video-display (VDU) terminals and will be connected
to the telex exchange by a 2Mb/s digital link. About 100 telex machines will
also be procured to establish new gentex points and replace old equipment.



-63-
ANNEX 14
Page 6 of 7
4.    Technical Assistance
The TA assistance to be funded by IDA consists of: corporate planning (24
staff-months), network planning and engineering (40 s-m), operation and
maintenance development ((24 s-m), and fellowships, study loans and seminars for
about 26 SLT staff (see Annex 13 ).   Additionally,  IDA is supporting the
strengthening of SLT's financial mr.Aagement under the ongoing PPF (P-535-CE), as
well as providing necessary consultants' assistance for the design and
preparation of specifications and tender documents for IDA funded components.
Other Works in the Project
1.    A new National Switching Center (NSC) will be installed in 1991-93 under
credit from France. Its capacity and configuration within the national network
is being studied.
2.    The Greater Colombo Telecommunications Network Improvement (GCTNI) Project
was designed to provide 140,000 loops in the Colombo area. Most of the civil
works have been completed, 25,000 subscribers have been transferred to the new
cable plant, and nearly 6,000 new subscriber connections Itave been provided in
1990. Additional works will be undertaken as a necessary complement to the new
telephone lines (18,000 + 35,600) and modifications in the network configuration
considered in the Project. The OECF project will provide 7 fiber-optic cable
links (140 MbIs) with a total length of 62.6 km, three PCM links (2 Mb/s), 50.6
km of primary metallic cable, and 181,000 pair-km of external line plant.
3.    If bilateral funding for the local transmission links for the new IDA
funded exchanges in provincial areas is not identified, GOSL/SLT will fund these
links out of their own resources. should define the funding of this component.
4.    Subscriber terminals and maintenance of facilities at subscriber premises
will be provided by the subscribers and the private sector.
S.    The following TA will be provided by UNDP/ITU:
(a)   "Establishment of a Development Planning Center" (Project C/SRL/89-
/017) which would improve SLT's collection, analysis, processing,
storage, and distribution of data for planning and operational
purposes;
(b)   "Support to Telecommunications Management Development", including:
- medium and longer term management development programs;
- training and management procedures to enhance SLT's efficiency and
cost e,fectiveness;
- establishment of a customer database;
- procedures for handling customer complaints;
- manpower planning;
- strengthening of personnel management.



-64-                             ANNEX 14
Page 7 of 7
(c)   "Telecommunications Management Development and Training (RAS/89/054-
/A/01/20), mainly directed towards middle management. This project
will be carried out jointly for the telephone administrations in
Indonesia, Malaysia, Pakistan, Philippines, Sri Lanka, and Thailand,
and will include:
- finance and budgets,
- marketing and commercial strategies,
- billing procedures,
- stores and logistics,
- organization of maintenance, and
- traffic, demand, and other telecommunications statistics.
The three UNDPIITU project documents are available in project files.



ANNEX 15
-65-
Sri Lanka
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Expansion of Greater Colombo Local Telephone Exchanges
Capacity    Expansion in 1991-95
Exchange          Function      in 1995          ICB          DC
1.0   CO E10 CEN        LOCAL           2,500          ---         ---
1.1   Angoda             RSU              600          ---         ---
1.2   Kaduwela           RSU              SOO          ---         ---
1.3   Malwana           RSU               600          ---         ---
1.4   Mattakkuliya       RSU            1,500          ---         ---
1.5   Wellampitiya       RSU              800          ---         ---
Subtotal:      6,500            0           0
2.0   CO E10 City 1     LOCAL          20,000          ---         ---
3.0   CO E10 City 2     LOCAL          18,100          ---      18,100
4.0  CO CEN SXS         LOCAL           6,500          ---         ---
5.0  HAVELOCK TOWN      LOCAL          21,600          ---         ---
5.1  Moratuwa           RSU             4,000          ---         ---
5.2   Piliyandala        RSU            1,500          ---         ---
Subtotals     27,100            0           0
6.0  HAVELOCK TOWN       TANDEM   (2 x 3,850) (2 x 3,850)          ---
7.0   KATUNWYAKE        LOCAL           5,000          ---       5,000
7.1   JA-ELA            RSU             3,000          ---       3,000
Subtotal:      8,000            0       8,000
8.0   KELANIYA           LOCAL          3,000        3,000         ---
8.1   Kadavata          RSU             1,000        1,000         ---
Subtotal:      4,000        4,000           0
9.0   KOLLUPITIYA        LOCAL          6,200        6,200         ---
10.0  KOTTE              LOCAL         15,500       15,500         ---
10.1  Hokandara         RSU               600          600         ---
Subtotal:     16,100       16,100           0
11.0  MARADANA          LOCAL          12,000          ---         ---
11.1  Local RSU         RSU             4,000          ---
Subtotal:     16,000            0           0
12.0  MOUNT LAVINIA     LOCAL          12,000          ---         ---
13.0  NUGEGODA          LOCAL           8,000          ---       8,000
13.1  Boralesgamuwa     RSU               600
13.2  Homagama          RSU             1,000          ---         ---
13.3  Maharagama         RSU            4,000          ---         ---
13.4  Padukka            RSU              250          ---         ---
13.5  Local RSU         RSU             2,000          ---         ---
Subtotal:     15,850            0       8,000
14.0  RATMALANA         LOCAL           4,000        4,000         ---
15.0  WATTALA           LOCAL           4,000        4,000         ---
15.1  Ragama            RSU             1,300        1,300         ---
Subtotal:      5,300        5,300           0
…_______ ________ _______  ________ ________ _______ ________  _ -_____
TOTAL:    145,650      35,600       34,100
Source: SLT, October 1990



ANNEX 16
-66-
Sri Lanka
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Schedule of Disburs em nts
(USI Million)
Cumulative
IDA FY and               Diuburseent      ……                 Disbursement
Semeter Ending            In Semeter                      I trial    Profile (*)
1991
June a0, 1991                     0.0        0         0.0               0
im
December 81, 1991                 5.8       10         S.8               2
June 80, 1992                     8.7       17         9.5 6
1998
December 31, 1992                 8.8       81        17.8               5
June 80, 1998                    10.0       49        27.8               8
1994
December 81, 1998                 7.7       62        85.6              14
June o0, 1994                     8.0       76        48.6              21
1995
Decmber 81, 1994                  8.0       90        61.6              82
June 80, 1996                     6.6      100        67.0              51
1996
December 81, 1996                 0.0      100        57.0              69
Juno 80, 1996                     0.0      100        67.0              80
1997
December 81, 1998                 0.0      100        67.0              90
June 80, 1997                     0.0      100        67.0              98
1998
December 81, 1997                 0.0      100        67.0             100
(s)  Standard Disbursemnt Profile (U) for telecommunications projects
In Asia, as of April 20, 1990.



-42.4U0  0     01     *  a.S   0                a  01                  0               .  1 
.... 2l  I  X  I  r   i-  . i   I  2  2   3 g.-  i                                                 U f  Z  i  I  "  9    |  9IL
R R ........ .4  0  U  X  EU                      -    00                            0             n -
g2-p       U  01                             1° El  U  -  S  *     0                                                      9
-                               *-  - -  -  *-  -   ----                      * -  *-    -  i   -     7   - -  -  -  -
2                                 a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
a~~~~~~~~~~a
[   7  7-7-7-7F----------------ii                             i-------i             -9 -------i-----F--               2R
S ~ ~~ I   ii        iii          ii I    I           ~ I- I                       2                         3z iii       B.
i i .                 .3  .0                                            ..j..  i  :C: : U   1  -  U    l~Z
I.  :             -                                                        -~-771  -  . ...............7 1    
-i-------------------i---------------------i--- -----i-------r3 -
o~~- ---- i4 i4                                                              i   
II                                              8I.....                           ... *--  --*--*   ii 
______       ______       ______       ______        ______       ______       ______       ______._____



AMNEX 18
-68-                             Page  1 of 2
Sri Lanka
SLCOND TBLECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Supervision Plan
1.    IDA Supervision Input into Key Activities
Staff input in addition to normal supervision is indicated in the table
attached.   The regular supervision,  including review of progress  reports,
procurement actions, correspondence, etc. would require about six staff-weeks
during the first two project years and four staff-weeks per year thereafter).
2.    Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
(a)   Quarterly Project Progress Reports will be submitted within one
month after completion of the quarter, in a format to be discussed
and agreed during the first Supervision Mission.   SLT's Project
Office will coordinate report preparation for the investment
component, and the Corporate Planning Unit for the TA component.
(b)   Annual financial statements will be submitted within four months of
the end of SLT's fiscal year, and interim results and additional
financial information as may be reasonably requested by IDA.
(c)   SLT will be responsible for coordination of IDA supervision missions
and those of other donors, and for providing the relevant informa-
tion required by the missions.



-69-
ANNX 18
Page 2 of 2
IDA Input Into Key Activities
Approzxiate
Dateo                                        Ezpected Skill      Staff Input
(Month(Year)            Activity                 Requlreents    (staff-weeks)
5-6191      Review of technical speci-    Financial Analysis              6.0
fications, bid documents      Telecom. Engineering
for telephone exchanges,
transmission network, and
detailed network plans.
Coordination with cofinan-
ciers.
10-12191    Review of bid evaluation       Telecom. Engineering           3.0
reports aud contracts.
10-12191    Review of Project start-up,   Financial Analysis              6.0
organizational changes,       Telecom. Engineering
TA implementation, cable
plant construction, and
performance indicators.
3-6/93      Review with GOSLISLT of        Financial Analysis             6.0
institutional arrangements    Telecom. Engineering
for the sector, propose
changes as necessary and
assist in the implementa-
tion of eventual changes.
1991-95     Two Supervision Missions       Financial Analysis            10.0/yr
per year.                      Telecom. Engineering
To review progress in
project implementation,
TA, and operations and
maintenance activities.
Last missions will
include preparation of PCR.



-70-
AM=E 19
SRI LANKA
SECOND TELECONKUNICATIONS PROJECT
SRI LANKA TELECON (SLT)
Incone Statement
SLRs lilliean  - - - - --..------Acthal --  ----:------------ ------------------ Forecast---------------------------
FT Ending 12131:                    1986     1987      1909     1989      1990     1991      1992     1993      1994     1995      1996     1997
REVENUES
Telephone:  Rentals                   76       77        79       93        9e       98       125      151       193      236       275      313
Domestic Calls          636      662       667    1,073    1,143    1,265    1,614    1,956    2,495    3,057    3,556    4,046
Interati. Calls         656      606       932    1,359    1,558    1,725    2,094    2,617    3,405    4,255    5,049    5,860
-----  .....  -----  .....  --       ..  .    ---       ..  .    ---       ....     ..   .    ....
Total Telephone Revenves           1,368    1,345    1,679    2,514    2,799    3,088    3,823    4,724    6,092    7,549    8,880   10,219
Telen                                209      261       259      302       320      352       387      426       469      515       567      624
Telegram                              25       17       20         7         7       10        10       10        10.      10        10    10
fliscellaneons                        5Q       5t        46       34       104       e1        93      323       362      325       235      285
....    . ... ..---      --       .....              ---       ---       --      .... .    .....    ---
TOTAL REVENUES                     1,652    1,674    2,003    2,857    3,220    3,530    4,314    5,483    6,933    8,398    9,692   11,138
OPERATIN6 COSTS
Staff Remlneration                   137      134       179      200       225      315       351      386       417      451       480      527
laintemlnce                           37       39        50       50       100      162       194      310       378      431       474      520
Operation I Administration           129      157       137      173       193      204       220      233       247      262       277      294
Depreciation                        210       242      302       405       500      653       746    1,210    1,445    1,603    1,666    1,746
Reval. Adjust.of Depreciatn.         196      239       309      456       300       68       116      t65       234      315       439      567
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS               709       811      976    1,294    1,308    1,402    1,628    2,304    2,721    3,062    3,344    3,655
Operating Income                     943      963    1,027    1,573    1,912    2,128    2,686    3,179    4,212    5,336    6,349    7,493
Less:  Interest                      256      367       191      267       600      572       904    1,332    1,552    1,659    1,696    1,713
foreigm Exchn;. Loss           0         0        0         0        0        o9       38        37       25        21       78        71
Income Tag                     0         0        0         0        0       768      930      987    1,435    1,996    2,512    3,133
.....    ---         ... ..    ...-_  .....    ---         ....    ---.--               ..... 
NET INCOKE                          687       496       936    1,306    1,312       700       914      922    1,201    1,670    2,072    2,566
:32:     Bazar    33222    33322   B3332       3S323     32322    ZZM:   3ss22    2::S:    2::::    2::::
Apprepriations                       373       45        53    2,025    1,312         0         0        0    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000
letained Earaings                    314      451       783     (719)        0      700       814      922       201      670    1,072    1,566
Operating Ratio 12)                   432      48t       492      452       412      402       392      422       39t      362       352      332
Rate of Retron (t)                  28.22    20.72    19.2U    21.32    21.72    14.22    16.42    15.2U    14.71    16.02    17.62    19.72



-71-                                       AMNX 20
SRI LANKA
SECOND TELECOIIUIICATIONS PROJECT
SRI LANKA TELECON (lSL)
lalance Skebt
SlRs lillion                    -------------......--   . Actual. .-       -.-.-. ----.---.-. ------. ---..Forecast…-------------------------
FY Ending 12/31:                    1986      1987      1988      1969     1990      1991     1992      1993      1994      199S     1996      1997
ASSETS
Assets in Operation                3,462    4,076    1,414    7,067    9,000    9,800   11,197   tl,157   21,668   24,040   24,998   26,191
Revaluation Adjustaent             3,674    5,147    6,692   10,157           0    1,016    1,742    2,48t    3,516    4,727    6,591    8,505
Less: Acc. Depreciation              955    1,198    1,499    1,904           0       653    1,400    2,610    4,055    5,657    7,323    9,069
Revaluation Adjustment:          2,471    3,418    4,408    6,695           0        69      232       491       981    1,433    2,302    3,453
......... ....... ............... ................ .......    ..... ........    ..... ........    ..... .......    ..... ........    .....
Net Fined Assets in Operation    3,730    4,607    6,109    8,635    9,000   10,095   11,307   17,536   20,248   21,676   21,953   22,174
lork in Progress                     594    1,339    1,653    1,166         800    1,397    6,960    3,511    2,372          948    1,203    L,925
.....    ...... .....    ...... .....    ...... .....    ....... .....    ...... .....    ..................... .. ... .. ... .. ... ..
Total Fiied Assets                 4,324    5,945    7,762    9,901    9,800   11,492   19,266   21,048   22,620   22,624   23,156   24,099
Cash and lanks                          0        0         0         0      200    1,175        499      730    1,114    2,591    4,146    5,915
Accounts Receivable                  960    1,064    1,235    1,336    1,600    1,694    1,704    2,156    2,755    3,376    3,938    4,543
Stores                                125      266       688       764      600       599      672    1,089    1,300    1,442    1,499    1,571
, ...... ........... ....... .. ....... .............    ..... ......    .....  ......    ..... ......    ..... ......    .....
Total Current Assets               1,085    1,330    1,923    2,100    2,400    3,458    2,874    3,975    5,169    7,409    9,583   12,029
~~~~~~~......                  .......  ......    ...... .. ......             ........ ......     ........ .. .... ........... .... ........ .........   .........
TOTAL ASSETS                       5,409    7,275    9,685   11,901   12,200   14,949   21,141   25,022   27,789   30,033   32,740   36,129
LIABILITIES
6OSL Equity                          229       265       493       773    7,600    7,600    7,600    7,600    7,600    7,600    7,600    7,600
Revaluation Reserve                1,803    2,569    3,343    5,077           0    1,016    1,693    2,339    3,219    4,192    5,627    6,958
Retained Earnings                  1,552    2,003    2,796    2,077           0       700    1,514    2,336    2,536    3,207    4,279    5,845
.....    ..... .   .....     ..... .   .....    ..... .   .....    ............................ .. ... .. ... .. .... .. ... ..
Total Equity                       3,593    4,837    6,632    7,927    7,600    9,316   10,807   12,275   13,355   14,999   17,506   20,403
Long-Term Debt                     1,334    2,036    2,669    3,574    4,000    4,604    9,218    1,446   12,992   12,826   12,553   12,772
Current Liabilities                   492      402       394      400       600    1,002    1,058    1,139    1,259    1,816    2,207    2,379
Subscriber Deposits                                                                    28        58      163       283       393      474       574
...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ......                                              ...... ...... ......
TOTAL LIABILITIES                  5,409    7,275    9,695   11,901   12,200   14,949   21,141   25,022   27,789   30,033   32,740   36,129
*3   333333   333333   3              sg33s3 s   ass33 3   38433   3338  ..3.33     3333    3333.3  3a3333
Debt/Capitalization (2)               27?       302       29%       312      34?       332      46?       49t       49?       46?      422      - 38?
Current Ratio (times)                2.2       3.3       5.0       5.3      4.0       3.5      2.7       3.5       4.1       4.1      4.3       5.1
Accounts Receivable (months)          7.0      7.6       7.4       5.6      4.7       4.0      3.0       3.0       3.0       3.0      3.0       3.0
Is  of cbick OTS traffic settlement                                         350       517      625       785    1,021    1,277    1,515    1,758
/b including current position of Lt debt



-72-
AUF= 21
SR1 LANKA
SECONI TELECONNUNICATIONS PROJECT
SRI LANKA TELECON ISLT)
Funds fleo Statsemen
SlRs llillion                   ..... ................   Actual..        --------F--   -------------------Forecast -----…-- …---- --------
f? Ending 12/31:
1986     1967      1989     1989      1990     1991      1992     1993      1994     1995      1996     1997
Operating Intooe                     943      U63    1,027    1,573    1,912    2,126    2,696    3,178    4,212    5,336    6,341    7,413
Depreciation                         406      491       610      161       800      721       963    1,376    1,679    1,911    2,1iS    2,313
.,... .. ... .. ....................... ......    ..... .......    .....    .... ....    ....., ..... .......    ..... .......  -
Total Internal Sources             1,349    1,344    1,637    2,434    2,712    2,849    3,549    4,554    5,991    7,254    6,453    9,791
6OSL Contribution                      0       37       229      290    6,927         0         0         0        0        0         0        O
Incr. in LT Debt                    225       702       633      90        426    1,043    5,057    2,673    1,094        361        05    1,36U
Others                                 1        2        10        0   (6,396)      (60)       (8)      69        95       66         3    . 29
.....         ..... .   .....    ..... .   ..... .. .....   ............................ .. , .._ .. ...  ..
TOTAL SOURCES                      1,575    2,065    2,509    3,619    3,579    3,932    0,597    7,296    7,909    7,723    9,661   11,194
Capital Espenditere                  594    1,339    1,653    1,166    1,567    1,397    6,960    3,Sll    2,372          941    1,203    1,925
lncr. (De)r) lorkiag Cap             352      335       611      161       100      656      1640)   1,019    1,075    1,663    1,763    2,273
Appropriation to 6091                373       45        53    2,025    1,312         0         0        0    1,000    1,000    1,666    1,000
Income Tat                             0        0         0        0         0      769      930       987    1,435    1,9S9      2,512    3,133
Interest                            256       367       19t      267       600      572      904    1,332    1,552    1,659    1,66    1,713
Aeortization                           0        0         0        0         0      440       443      446       447      446       i78    19150
,., .,, ,,,~~~.              . ..    .    ,....,,..,,....... ..... ,..._,,,,_
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                 1,575    2,085    2,508    3,6t9    3,579    3,632    8,597    7,296    7,860    7,723    9,061   11,1M
3ss33    33333    8383      8s888     338    3S3s3    3s33s    83333    338   3t333    83X3              Soon
Debt Service Ratio (tines)           5.3      3.7       1.6      9.1       4.5      2.6       2.6      2.6       2.9      3.4       3.3      3.4
Self-Financing Ratio (2) /b           622      452       492      -22       572      992       16t      261       322     2062      1792     1192
Self-Financing Ratio (2) /c           452      502       572      -1t       652      422       312      232       342     1302    I55       2202
/a  Includes subscriber deposits, etchange losses and other items not requiring cash.
/b The investments of the year.
/c Average annual Iinvestments for the preceding, curreit and substeqeit years.



-73-
ANNEX 22
Page 1 of 3
SRI LANMA
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Notes and Assumptions to Financial Statement
1.    SLTD's  financial performance up to 1989 is based on its commercial
accounts, which have been maintained since 1981 in accordance with methods agreed
with IDA under the First Telecommunications Project. SLT is expected to take
over relevant SLTD assets and liabilities in December 1990 at realistic
replacement values established by GOSL. This will involve writing down certain
fixed assets, uncollectible receivables and obsolete stores. These adjustments
are expected to be reflected in SLT's financial statements as of December 31,
1990. The main assumptions used for establishing SLT's opening position and
financial projections are described in the following.
2.    Income Statement
(a)   Revenues -  Domestic tariffs (rentals, call charges and others) are assumed
to increase over 1990 levels in line with inflation 'I less 22 (see Annex 11)
as from 1992. Tariffs for international call charges and telex are expected to
increase in line with inflation. In addition to these tariff increases, revenues
will increase due to connection of new subscribers  (Annex 24).   However,
international traffic will be constrained until 1992, when ADB expects to
commission the new international facilities.
(b)   Operating Expenses - Staff remunerations are expected to increase 402 over
1990 levels in 1991 and 22 in real terms thereafter.  Maintenance costs are
expected to equal 1.5Z of gross revalued fixed assets and operating and
administrative costs to increase in line with inflation. Depreciation has been
based on 15 years, straight line, or 6.7Z p.a., on average for all assets.
(c)   Interest - is expected to equal 13Z on average outstanding long- term debt;
GOSL will assume the exchange risk.
(d)   Corporate Income Tax - is assumed to equal 502 of income after inttnrest,
but before revaluation adjustments of depreciation charges.
(e)   Appropriations - to GOSL have been projected only as SLT's cash flow would
allow.
3.    Balance Sheet
(a)   Fixed assets - SLT is expected to take over SLTD's fixed assets on a "net'
(after depreciation) basis at estimated replacement values as from 1991, assets
in operations have been increased according to SLT's investment program
1/ Projected ats  11.52 in 1991, 7.7Z in 1992, and 6.02 thereafter.



-74-
ANNEX 22
Page 2 of 3
(Annex 14).   On average, work in progress are expected to equal the year's
capital expenditures.
(b)   Revaluation adiustments - of fixed assets in operations and accumulated
depreciation are based on a composite index to reflect the estimated replacement
cost of imported and domestic assets: 702 projected MUV USS index adjusted for
exchange fluctuations and 302 domestic inflation.
(c)   Current Assets -  Cash and Banks is expected to exceed the equivalent of
two months of projected cash outflow. Accounts receivable are projected to equal
four months of customer billing in 1991 and three months thereafter; an amount
equal to 302 of annual international revenues is also included for settlement
with foreign administration. Inventories are assumed to equal 6Z of gross fixed
assets.
GOSL Equity - The 1990 opening balance is the difference between SLT's assets
(fixed assets at replacement cost) and liabilities (foreign long-term debt valued
at Rs 46/US$. As from 1991, the revaluation reserve is defined as the difference
between revaluation adjustments of assets in operation and accumulated
depreciation plus revaluation adjustments of depreciation (excluding) charged to
income. All adjustments of asset values up to 1990 are expected to be included
in GOSL's equity, so the 1990 revaluation reserve would be zero. The revaluation
exercise will be done outside SLT's books on a memorandum account basis for rate
of return calculations and IDA monitoring purposes.
Long-Term debt - is expected to equal all loans and credits that GOSL has
received for the telecommunications sector, e.g. from IDA, ADB, OECF, France,
FINNIDA, etc., valued at Rs 40/US$. As no relending terms had been established
until 1990, the balance of SLT's long-term debt as of 1990 and all new debt as
from 1991 are expected to be on the same conditions; 13? interest, five years
of grace and amortization over ten years.
Deposits - for subscribers with IDD facilities are expected to equal Rs 25,000
at 1990 tariff levels; 102 of SLT's new subscribers are expected to have IDD.
Current liabilities consist of current maturities on long-term debt and other
accounts payable within one year (e.g. for settlement with foreign
administrations).
4.    Funds Flow Statement.
Increase in deposits has been treated as an internal source rather than a
liability, as deposits are unlikely to be repaid; if one subscriber annuls his
subscription, his deposit will be replaced by that of a new subscriber. The 502
corporate income tax may not be paid fully during SLT's initial years, as SLT may
be allowed to depreciate fixed assets taken over from SLTD on an accelerated
basis for tax purposes. However, for projection purposes, SLT has conservatively
been assumed to pay the full tax.
Dividends to GOSL have been projected only for years in which SLT has surplus



-75-
AIIUU 22
Pose S of g
funds after covering its own capital and operational requirements.
S.    Ratios
ODerating Ratio - Operating expenses as a percentage of operating revenue.
Rate of Return - Operating income, less corporate tax, as a percentage of
average, revalued net fixed assets in operations.
Debt/Eauity Ratio - Long-term debt as a percentage of total capitalization.
Current Ratio - Current assets divided by current liabilities.
Accounts Receivable - months outstanding. Outstanding customer bills, divided
by the annual operating revenue, times twelve.
Debt Service Ratio - Internal cash generation divided by debt service.
Self-Financing Ratio - Internal cash generation less change in working capital,
dividends, tax and debt service, as a percentage of capital expenditures.



-76-
ANNEX 23
SRI LANMA
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR)
1.    The FIRR calculations are based on the following assumptions:
(a)   incremental project revenues equal the sum of all increases
in international revenues after 1991 and 60X of other revenue
increases after 1992;
(b)   incremental operating costs equal 60Z of cost increases after
1991 (excluding depreciation) and corporate tax;
(c)   a 20-year useful life has been assumed and no residual values
have been taken into account;
(d)   incremental project revenue and cost streams have been deflated
by the projected domestic inflation (7.7Z in 1992, 62
thereafter) to express all streams in 1991 purchasing power; and
(e)   as from 1997, incremental revenues and costs have been assumed to
remain constant in real terms.
2.    Based on the above assumptions, the following cash flows were
constructed:
Capital      Incremental Project                     Deflated
Expenditures   Cost        Revenues          Deflator  Benefits
1991            372            -              -           1.00       (372)
1992          4,161          109            217           0.93    (4,052)
1993          1,698          195          1,125           0.88       (768)
1994          1,360          391          1,711           0.83         40
1995            501          697          2,798           0.78       (40)
1996               -         908          2,968           0.74      1,599
1997-2010          -         908          3,454           0.69      2,547
The above deflated net benefit stream gives an internal rate of return of
26.7Z.
3.    A sensitivity analysis was performed with the following results:
ROR
(a)   Capital Expenditures           +202            22.32
(b)   Operating Costs                +202            24.7Z
(c)   Revenues                       -20Z            19.4X
(d)   Combination of (a), (b) and (c) above          14.02



-77-
ANNEX 24
Page 1 of 3
Sri Lanka
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Telephone Demand Forecast
Ewbank Preece Ltd. (EPL) was commissioned by ADB to carry out a study into
the development of the telecommunications network of Sri Lanka. To forecast the
telephone demand in the period 1990-2005, the consultants have compared two
separate methods and obtained national and regional figures applicable to the
dimensioning of the network.
The first method, leading to a macroscopic forecast, relates demand density
(number of main telephone lines in service per hundred population) to the level
of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita. EPL arrived to the formula
Y - 0.000419 X1.372
for a logistic curve linking the demand density Y and the GDP, X, which is
relatively close to expressions derived earlier by Carl Bro and JICA, and to a
similar formula developed by ITU.
The total demand is calculated as the sum of the expressed demand (known
number of lines in service plus waiters) and a hidden or suppressed demand. This
hidden demand represents the unknown potential subscribers that would request a
telephone if there was a realistic chance of it being provided in a reasonable
time.  EPL believe that a reasonable assessment of this demand is about 50Z of
the expressed demand.
According to this method, total demand in 1995 would be about 329,000
lines.   At district level or telephone exchange level the demand could be
calculated as a proportional share of the demand, although these desegregated
results may have severe deticiencies.
The second method assumes the telephone demand to be a function of three
regional factors: (i! the level of income; (ii) the level of vrbanization, and
(iii) the economic structure o' sectoral mix in the region. Scores (1-5) given
by the consultants to each factor in each administrative district are averaged
to assign telephone densities and growth rates to five groups of regions on the
basis of other countries experience and the consultants' judgement on the Sri
Lankan situation.   These densities vary from 0.5 to 7.0 (Colombo) lines/100
population in 1990 and grow to 0.7-9.1 in 1995.  Total demand in 1995 estimated
by the second method is about 404,000 lines.
The two methods provide a broad indication of telephone rt*quirements in Sri
Lanka.   EPL introduced further adjustments to the regional results to ge,
"planning" estimates.  Total demand figures in 1984-95 are shown in Annex 24, p.3
(Telephone Service Supply and Demand). In 1995, the estimate is 376,000 lines.



-78-
ANNEX 24
Page 2 of 3
Demand for Non-Voice Services
Telex service is still growing in Sri Lanka mainly as a substitute for
telephone, due to the heavily congested telephone network and its cost
effectiveness.   In February 1989 there were 1,516 telex subscribers (902 in
Greater Colombo Area), and EPL estimates an annual growth of 52 and 22 in 1990-90
and 1996-2000, respectively, without further increase after the vear 2000.
SLTD has attempted to register the number of facsimile machines in service.
Its best estimate indicates a total of about 1,000 lines in the country, or
around 202 of the subscribers with International Direct Dialling (IDD).
The telegraph service is operated through 133 lines from the telex exchange
at Colombo, as gentex service. Some of the gentex teleprinters are situated in
SLTD's offices (50 gentex stations) and some are installed at post offices.
Where post offices are not equipped with gentex teleprinters, the telegrams are
read by telephone to the nearest "phonogram" office of SLTD and here they are
transmitted through the gentex network.   From 1984 to 1989, the number of
telegrams has decreased at a rate of about 11 per year, so the project only
includes equipment to improve the operation and reduce costs.



-79-
ANNEX 24
Page 3 of 3
Sri Lanka
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Telephone Service Supplr and Demand
400
380 _
380 -
340 -
320 -
300
pe   ao _<                                                
280-
q   240-
220 -
200 -
180 
140-
120 -
100                             _
eo
1984 1995  1996  1997  199  199  1990  1991  19   19   1994 1995
Your
a  Total Demand   +  EqulPped Ceaclty   o  Llnes In Service



-80-
ANNEX 25
SRI LAM
SECOND TELECOMOWNICATIONS PROJECT
Economic Rate of Retumn (ERR)
1.    The ERR calculations are based on the same assumptions as for the FIRR
(see Annex 23) with the following modifications:
(a)   a standard conversion fee factor of 752 has been applied to all
domestic costs and benefits; and
(b)   import duties, income taxes and other transfer payments have been
excluded.
2.    Based on the above assumptions, the following cost and benefit streams
(in 1990 real terms) were constructed:
Capital     Operating   Incremental         Net
Costs         Costs       Revenues          Benefits
1991          316                                         (316)
1992        3,537            14          218            (3,333)
1993        1,444            40       1,043               (441)
1994        1,156            50       1,566                 360
1995          427            95       2,508              1,987
1996            -           104       2,742              2,638
1997-2009       -           112       3,193              3,081
The above net benefit shown gives an ERR of 36.8Z.
3.    A sensitivity analysis was made with the following results:
ERR
(a)  Capital costs                   + 202         31.1Z
(b)  Operating costs                 + 202         36.5S
(c)  Revenues                        - 202         29.72
(d)  Combination of (a) (b) and (c)                24.72



-81-
ANNEX 26
SRI LANKA
SECOND TELECOMMNICATIONS PROJECT
Fiscal Impact (in USS  illilon) 1/
Custom      Income       Debt Service        Dividends
Duties      Taz          Interest Amort.   To GOSL        TOTAL
1991               4.9           17.8         13.2      10.2      -         46.1
1992              23.6           21.0         20.4      10.0      -         75.0
1993              11.7           21.8         29.5       9.9      -         72.9
1994               7.8           31.5         34.0       9.8     21.9      105.0
1995               3.1           43.3         36.1       9.8     21.8      114.1
Total             51.1          135.4        133.2      49.7     43.7      413.1
1/ Exchange rates used:
SL Rs/S
1991  43.2
1992  44.3
1993  45.2
1994  45.6
1995  45.9



-82-
ANNEX 27
SRI LAIKA
SECOND TELECMWNICATIONS PROJECT
Documents In Prolect Piles
1.    Sri Lanka Telecommunications Development Study (Ewbank Preece Ltd.,
U.K.).
2.    Proposals for Preparation of:  Statement of Affairs, New Accounting
System and Training of Staff for SLTD (Coopers and Lybrand, Colombo,
March 1990):
3.    Memorandum of Understanding (ADB, March 1990, revised May 1990);
4.    Working Papers for Financial Projections and Return Calculations;
5.    Prospect vs. Telecom. Training Centers in Sri Lanka (SLTD, 1989);
6.    Socio-Economic Trends and Patterns in Sri Lanka 1989 (Statistics
Department, Central Bank of Sri Lanka);
7.    The U.N.P. Manifesto 1988 (R. Premadasa, October, 1988);
8.    Public Investment 1988-1992 (National Planning Division, MOP?, May
1988);
9.    Demand Survey (ITU, December 1989 to February 1990);
10.   Planning Methods (ITU, February 1990);
11.   Project Document "Establishment of a Development Planning Centrel (ITU,
November 1989);
12.   Aide Memoire (DANIDA, April 1988);
13.   ADB's Appraisal Report and Legal Documents;
14.   OECF's BTO for Appraisal of Colombo II, Gampaha and Katunayake.
15.   UNDP/ITU's project documents for *Support to Telecommunications
Management Development."
16.   UNDP/ITU's project documents for "Telecommunications Management and
Training."
17.   Preparation of Statement of Affairs, Progress Reports 1-5 (Coopers and
Lybrand, November 1990).
18.   Draft Telecommunications Act of 1991.
19.   Draft Licence for SLT.



7r                                                                                          U.
SRI LANKA
_ECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJEC T
TELECOMMUNICATIONS NErWORK
COVERED BY                                                                                                     BAY OF
MDA PJECT: EXSRNG:                                                                                                   OF
*    lIMEU  SWITCHING CENTERS
A         *    sEcomow SWItCING CENTERS                                                                    BENGA
@     *    bCHNGCmARY swr                                         , NG C\                 \
o RADIOSITES
4   SATELUTE EARTH SWAIONS
UNDER PROJECr.:
DIGTAL RAO SYSTEM
DIGiTAL RAMO SYSTEMS
ANAMLO RAMN SYSTEMS                   _-                       /s                                ,
COAAL CAM ESYSTEMS
-        MULTIPAIR TRUNK CAMES
=DISTRICT BOUNDOARIES
0  Dt        24 30  / 
>~ ~~~~~~nmrR *3 lPiI\                                  fUIIM /         j        %\r                         OLONNARUV *-
GULF
OF
MANNAR
_.,,ofto,IF,.Colelb., _y _m    n G neXW 71                                                    NUWVSARA ELlrYAW
yoos.rendori~n,..l    -of.,.h bo.ndo..          COLOMbO
GREATER COLOMBO
SWITCHING DISTRICT                                                                          piikd.
At * AB , j5\ W\ tNAtURA GRAT, |
OCEAN      KEANY              MLWN
CON SOT      ,     -     H; 
lHAve=lDcQuE O W 
\   AGAMA  I        /    ~~~~~PADUKKA
*           J1MAGAMA/  
MTtLAVINIA            >| 
\     FOCAANrTLALAVA*  E 10 Main Exdco.g .                             INDIAN   OCEAN
A0OlATUlefAX > r Z E 10 Sscflliles
Analog Ecdc0'g.
oCdol,b. N-fi-';
SwitW,ing (>ster (NSCj
5 \ |  \   ~~~~ Edimce;                r                                             &                                       _. a:



