긔


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2249 CE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     ZYuly                    1991, between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI IANKA (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   by agreement dated November 9, 1990 (the ADB Loan
Agreement), the Asian Development Bank (ADB) has agreed to make a
loan (the ADB Loan) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to SDR 29,655,000 to assist in financing part of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the ADB Loan
Agreement;
(C)   by agreement dated March 18, 1991 (the OECF Loan
Agreement), the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECF)
has agreed to make a loan (the OECF Loan) to the Borrower in an
aggregate principal amount equivalent to at least $45,000,000 to
assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions
set forth in the OECF Loan Agreement;
(D)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of
France (France) a loan (the France Loan) in an amount equivalent to
about $4,400,000 to assist in financing part of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the France Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and France; and
(E)   the Project will be carried out by Sri Lanka Telecom
(Sri Lanka Telecom) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to Sri Lanka
Telecom the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the L)asis, inter alia,
of the 4foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and Sri
Lanka Telecom;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
A


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Act" means the Sri Lanka Telecommunications Act of
1991;
(b)   "Sri Lanka Telecom" means the Sri Lanka Telecom,
established pursuant to Gazette Notification No. 596/11 of
February 6, 1990 and operating under the Act, or any successor
thereto;
(c)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Sri Lanka Telecom (Sri Lanka Telecom), of even date
herewith, as the sam? may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(d)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and Sri Lanka Telecom (Sri Lanka
Telecom) pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(e)   "Project  Preparation   Advance"  means   the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated August 29, 1988 and
October 13, 1988 between the Borrower and the Association; and
(f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirty-nine million seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 39,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part B of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in
a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the


﻿-4.
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount o,,f the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15, 2001 and ending March 15, 2031. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 15,
2011 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever; (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the


﻿-5-
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause Sri Lanka Telecom to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of
Sri Lanka Telecom therein set forth, shall take and cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
Sri Lanka Telecom to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
Sri Lanka Telecom und.r a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and Sri Lanka Telecom, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association which
shall include, inter alia: (i) interest at a rate of not less than
10% per annum on the principal amount so relent and withdrawn by Sri
Lanka Telecom and outstanding from time to time; (ii) repayment over
a period of fifteen years, including therein a period of grace of
five years; and (iii) foreign exchange risk to be borne by Sri Lanka
Telecom.


﻿-6-
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out
by Sri Lanka Telecom pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)   by June 30, 1993, review with the Association the
institutional arrangements in the telecommunications sector; and
(b)   thereafter, as a result of said review, implement the
improvements in the institutional arrangements as agreed with the
Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause Sri Lanka Telecom to
implement the recommendations on staff remuneration referred to in
Part 2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause all its agencies to
pay in full, within three months of receipt, their telecommunication
bills.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a)   by December 31, 1991 establish and thereafter maintain
a tender board with membership and powers satisfactory to the
Association, to facilitate the efficient and economical procurement
of goods, works and services for Sri Lanka Telecom; and


﻿-7-
(b)   increase and maintain Sri Lanka Telecom powers to
procure goods and services, to a level sufficient to facilitate the
efficient and economical implementation of its work programs.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, without any limitation or
restriction upon the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this
Agreement, take all measures necessary, including adjustments or
maintenance of telecommunications tariffs, and refrain from
appropriating Sri Lanka Telecom funds, to enable Sri Lanka Telecom
to meet its obligations specified under Sections 4.02, 4.03, and
4.04 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until
at least one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made; and
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing prin-
ciples consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;


﻿-8-
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested, including a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals;
and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Sri Lanka Telecom shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that Sri Lanka
Telecom will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c)   The Act shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of Sri Lanka Telecom to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of Sri Lanka Telecom or for the suspension of its operations.
(e)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:


﻿-9
(A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms thereof, or
(B)   any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
suspension,   cancellation,   termination   or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower;
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c)   any event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:


﻿- 10 -
(a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and Sri Lanka Telecom;
(b)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
ADB Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to
the effectiveness of this Agreement;
(c)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
OECF Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related
to the effectiveness of this Agreement; and
(d)   the following actions, in form and substance satisfac-
tory to the Association, have been completed:
(i)    the Act is in force; and
(ii)   the operating license for Sri Lanka Telecom has
been issued.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by Sri Lanka Telecom, and is legally binding upon Sri Lanka
Telecom in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Sri Lanka Telecom and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and Sri Lanka Telecom in accor-
dance with its terms.
Section 6.03, The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Colombo, Sri Lanka
Cable address:               Telex:
SEGMINFIN               FINMIN 21409
Colombo                 FORAID 21232
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
S1      Tochen    KY   ,&sKe
Act*,, Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit              % of
Allocated        Expenditures
(Expressed in          to be
Category             SDR Equivalent)       Financed
(1)   Materials,              32,690,000       100% of foreign
equipment and                            expenditures
installation
under Part B
of the Project
(2)   Consultants'             1,160,000       100%
services and
training under
Part B of the
Project
(3)   Refunding of               390,000       Amounts due
Project                                  pursuant to
Preparation                               Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                   of this Agreement
(4)   Unallocated              5,460,000
TOTAL               39,700,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.


﻿- 14 -
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are : (i) to strengthen the
capabilities of Sri Lanka Telecom, (ii) to facilitate private sector
participation in the telecommunications sector, and (iii) to improve
access to and quality of telecommunications services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
1.    Provision and installation of:
(a)    international facilities consisting of a switching
center, earth station and transmission link, and a trunk transmis-
sion network; and
(b)   information systems.
2.    Technical assistance for customer billing and maintenance
procedures.
Part B
1.    Provision and installation of about 35,600 exchange lines and
tandem exchanges in Colombo.
2.    Provision and installation of about 17,000 exchange lines and
corresponding local cable plant outside Colombo.
3.    Rehabilitation of existing exchanges.
4.    Provision and installation of telegraph equipment.
5.    Technical assistance for financial management, corporate
planning, network planning and engineering, operation and main-
tenance, and staff training.
Part C
1.    Provision and installation of a national switching center.


﻿- 16 -
2.    (a)   Provision and installation of local cable plant in
Colombo; and
(b)   Technical assistance for operation and maintenance of
transmission and cable networks.
3.    Provision and installation of subscribers' apparatus.
4.    Provision and installation of local transmission links.
5.    Construction of buildings and storage for Sri Lanka TeLecom.
Part D
Technical assistance for network planning, management
development and staff training.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for equipment and installation for the rehabilita-
tion of existing exchanges under Part B (3) of the Project may be
awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part C:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿- 18 -
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist in carrying out the Project, the Borrower
shall employ or cause Sri Lanka Telecom to employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an    amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 20 -
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which reple-
nishment is requested. On the basis of each such
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amount as
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
have been shown by said documents and other
evidence to have been paid out of the Special
Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph     3 of   this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once  the  total unwithdrawn   amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for Part B of the Project, less
the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to Part B of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to tne eligible
Categories for Part B of the Project shall follow such procedures


﻿- 21 -
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expendi-
tures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower ahall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


