Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICpE  COPY
Report No. 10492
Report No. 10492-RW   Type: (PCR)
MAUPRIVEZ,/ X31709 / T9 069/ OEDD3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1495-RW)
APRIL 3, 1992
Industry and Energy Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1983        US$1 = RwF 97 (Appraisal)
1984        US$1 = RwF 100.2
1985        US$1 = RwF l01.3
1986        US$1 = RwF 87.6
1987        US$l = RwF 79.7
1988        US$1 = RwF 76.4
1989        US$1 = RwF 79.9
MEASUREMENTS
k''         Kilovolt                 =     1,000 volts
kW          Kilowatt                 =     1,000 watts
MW          Megawatt                 =     1,000 kilowatts
TOE         Ton of Oil Equivalent   =      10,500,000 kilocalories
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
Bank              World Bank
CCCE              Caisse Centrale de Coop6ration Economique
DM                DeutBch mark
EDF               Electricite de France
Electrogaz        Etablissement Public de Production de Transport et
de Distribution de 1'Eau, d'Electricit6 et de Gaz
Government        Government of Rwanda
HV                High Voltage
MPWE              Ministry of Public Works and Energy
MV                Medium Voltage
PCR               Project Completion Report
Project           Rwanda Power Project (Credit 1495-RW)
PPF               Project Preparation Facility
SAR               Staff Appraisal Report
SAUR              Societ6 d'Amenagement Urbain et Rural
SDR               Special Drawing Rights
UNDP              United Nations Development Program
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



THE WORLD BANK                 FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Washngton, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Diretot-GeieraI
Operatons Evaluation
April 3, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Rwanda
Power Proiect (Credit 1495-RW)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Rwanda - Power Project (Credit 1495-RW)" prepared by the
Africa Regional Off ice, No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restticted distribution and may be used by recipients oniy in the performance|
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWAND>A
POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 1495-CH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS                                                          Page No.
PREFACE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i
EVALTIATION SUMMARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity  ........  ...  ..  ...  ..  ...  .                     ..    1
Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Project Origin, Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
Project Results.                               . .                             5
Project Sustainability            ..                                           9
Bank Performance ......................... . 10
Borrower Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Project Relationship             .............. . 10
consulting Services            ............... . 11
Conclusions and Lessons Learned           ............ . 11
PART II:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Introduction ........................... . 13
Ntaruka Hydroelectric Generating Station. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Restoration of Reliability of the National Electricity Network  . . . 15
Revaluation of Project Costs             ............ . 16
Conclusions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related IDA Credits .19
2. Project Timetable .19
3. Credit Disbursements .                                                     20
4.    Project Implementation Indicators . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
5.    Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
6.    Project Results
Economic Impact .22
Financial Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
7.    Status of Covenants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
8. Use of Bank Resources .27
9. Mission Data .27
ANNEXES
Annex 1  Evolution of Faults in the Transmission Network  . . . . . . 28
Annex 2  ELECTROGAZ Financial Statements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World 3ank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWAIDA
POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 1495-CH)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Rwanda Power Project,
for which Credit 1495-RW in the amount of SDR 8.5 million (US$ 9.0 million) was
approved on June 12, 1984. The Credit was closed on June 30, 1988, as scheduled.
It was fully disbursed and the last disbursement was on October 31, 1987.
This report was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Division of the
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department, Africa Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower's implementing agency for
this project, Electrogaz (Part II). No comments were received from the project
cofinancier.
The preparation of Parts I and III of this report is based on the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR), the President's Report, the Credit and Project
Agreements, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower, consultants' reports and other information available in the project
files.



ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 1495-CM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
At the time of preparation of the Rwanda Power Project (Credit No. 1495-RW)
in 1983, only 2% of Rwanda's 6.5 million population had access to electricity.
Electrogaz, the Government-owned utility for electricity, gas, and water, had a
total installed electricity generating capacity of 27.4 MW, the source of which
was mostly hydropower. In addition to this capacity, the Ruzizi II regional
power project (Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire) was to make a considerable amount of
power available to Rwanda in order that electricity service could be extended to
unserved areas.   Much of the equipment in Rwanda's own power stations and
transmission system was old, maintenance was inadequats and plant failures,
outages and shutdowns of the entire system were high (para. 3). Rwanda had no
long-term power sector develcpmant plan and there was considerable scope for
technical assistance to improve the utility's capability in planning, operating
and maintaining the system. Furthermore, accounting and financial management of
Electrogaz required strengthening.
Project Obiectives and Description
The Project's main objectives  .. re to:   (a)  improve reliability of
pi-duction, transmission and distribut,on of electricity; (b' serve additional
electricity consumers ,c) help sustain the contribution to economic growth by the
industrial and sommet.cial sectors of the country; and (d) strengthen Electrogaz
in its planning, management, organization of its electricity department, general
operations and maintenance. The physical components consisted of (a)
rehabilitation at the Ntaruka power station (Rwanda's second largest), (b) the
rehabilitation of the transmission network; (c) the construction of two new
transmission lines; (d) the supply of maintenance equipment and spare parts; and
(e) the provision of vehicles. The *-oject also provided experts' services to
complement the institutional improvement program which has been initiated under
the IDA and CCCE supported Water Supply Project (Cr. 1345-RW) (para. 10). This
complementary assistance consisted of advisers to the General Manager, for
electricity sector investment planning and technical  improvements and for
training of electricity service staff.
Proiect Imolementation Experience
The Project's implementation experienced major problems in the areas of
project management (para. 14) and the availability of funds (para. 15)   to
fulfill contracts under the Project.   There was a six-month delay in the
completion of the project, which ended in June 1988 instead of December 1987 as
estimated in the SAR.   The major physical works of the Project  -- the
rehabilitation of the Ntaruka power plant, the rehabilitation of existing
transmission lines and the construction of new transmission lines -- were
completed, but there are still some outstanding technical problems related to the
rehabilitation of Ntaruka (paras. 17-20), and there is a need for improvement in
the quality of distribution services (para. 37).  Concerning improvements to
Electrogaz' operations: a planning unit was created, but de factor planning
responsibility remained with the Ministry of Public Workds and Energy (para. 32);
recommendations of the Engineering Adviser concerning network maintenance were
only partially implemented (para. 33); and few of the financial performance
targets were met owing to stagnant sales revenues, creation of non-productive
assets and accumulation of Government receivables (para. 36).



iii
Sustainability
In order to fully attain the Project's benefits and maintain them,
considerable remedial work is needed, including technical assistance for power
system maintenance and the development of operating practices appropriate for the
new facilities installed under the Project. Furthermore, Electrogaz needs to
make significant improvements to the quality of distrJbution service in order for
the benefits of the Project to reach the consumer. Electrogaz agrees that this
is a priority and has requested that such works be included in the proposed
Energy Sector project presently under preparation.    Additional  technical
assistance will be required to sustain progress made in strengthening Electrogaz'
commercial activities and accounting and to implement organizational changes,
improved financial management and power sector planning all aimed at greater
autonomy for the enterprise. Institutional reform will also be inne-ded in the
focus of the aforementioned Energy project.
Conclusions and Lessons Learned
The Project was an important first step in power system rehabilitation but
additional work is required to complete some tasks started during the Project,
resolve problems with the Ntaruka power station rehabilitation and improve
operation of the distribution system. The major lesson to learn from the Project
is to design future projects to ensure the proper completion of work under the
highest priority components in order to avoid situations such as the one
discussed in paragraph 42, concerning the extension of the consulAing engineer's
contract.   A prudent measure would be to carry out rehabilitation works in
phases, programming essential components in the first phase, and components which
are economically justified but could be postponed in a second phase. Contracts
would be written accordingly.  A second lesson is the need to establish and
strictly enforce procedures to improve the performance of consultants and
contractors. These procedures should ensure that (i) records of past performance
are adequately taken into account at the time of qualification for bidding, (ii)
performance security fully reflects the risk inherent in obtaining full
performance and (iii) undue delays in paying consultants and contractors are
eliminated. A third lesson is that basic policy changes related to institutional
reform should be implemented as upfront conditions. Finally, the project has
shown the need for agreement with the Government and the implementing agency on
a framework for investment planning in the power sector which would specify
sector priorities.   The lack of such a framework is partly responsible for
concerns about the sustainability of the Project benefits. The proposed follow-
up Energy project will incorporate the above lessons.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 1495-CH)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Proiect Identity
Name               Power Project
Credit Number      1495-RW
RVP Unit           Africa Region
Country            Rwanda
Sector             Energy
Cofinancier        Caisse Centrale de Coop6ration Economique
B.   Background
1.   Rwanda, a country of 26,300  =m2 in the eastern part of central
Africa, had a population of 5.5 million at the time of the Rwanda Power
Project appraisal in 1983, and only two percent of this population had
access to electricity. Electrogaz, the Government-owned electric power,
gas and water utility, established in 1976, had a total electricity
installed generating capacity of 27.4 MW, most of which (89%) came from
iydropower, with the remainder supplied by diesel power. Prior to 1982,
the main sources of power had been the Ruzizi hydroelectric generating
facility in Zaire and the Ntaruka hydroelectric station in northern
Rwanda. In 1982, with the completion of the Mukungwa generating station
12 x 6 MW), the country's dependence on electricity importo declined
considerably. A 110-kV transmission line connected the Ruzizi, Ntaruka
and Mukungwa power stations to Kigali, the capital of Rwanda. The power
system was under the pressure of a fairly high annual growth in
electricity demand, averaging 10.6 percent during 1977-82.   In 1982,
electricity sales were 73.4 GWh, of which 21 percent went to domestic
users, 60 percent went to industry and 19 percent to Government users and
public lighting.
2.   Until the late 1970s, the Ministry of Planning had been in charge of
electricity planning.   In the early 1980s, the Rwanda Government had
requested assistance from the Government of Switzerland in establishing an
energy planning unit under the Director General of Energy within the
Ministry of Public Works and Energy (MPWE).  While the MPWE wished to
retain the responsibility for electricity planning and investment
programming, leaving network operating responsibility and project
implementation work to Electrogaz, the Bank believed that Electrogaz
should also have planning responsibility since it had the technical and
financial responsibility for electricity supply.   The Power Project
therefore included a technical assistance component in the Project to help
build this capability.
3.   Rwanda's power stations had a considerable amount of old equipment,
and maintenance was inadequate. Plant failures were high and during the
ten months prior to project appraisal there were 113 unplanned outages and
27 complete shutdowns of the entire system.  Most of the interruption
occurred during the rainy season when severe lightning and frequent storms
caused voltage fluctuations. Because equipment was old or not properly
serviced to correct the faults automatically, it was necessary to reclose
circuits manually, and this extended the length of time without power.
Total losses on the system were about 20 percent of energy generated.
Most of the transmission system was antiquated. For example, the Ntaruka



power station was designed as an isolated plant and additional equipment
was required for it to function effectively as part of an integrated
network. Concerning substations, their design and layout did not allow
for convenient  maiatenance  and servicing.    There was  some  circuit
overloading, and a lack of adequate over-voltage protection and automatic
switch reclosing equipment.   These specific problems,  combined with
general system deterioration, had significantly diminished the reliability
of electricity service to consumers.
4.   Accounting and financial management of Electrogaz needed considerable
improvement  at the time  of  project  appraisal.    The  accounts  were
unreliable and receivables were at the level of twelve months of revenue.
There was poor inventory control, and unreliable accounting of long-term
interest and debt due. A low debt equity ratio (27:73) resulted from the
Government's treating grants which it received as a contribution to
Electrogaz' capital and there was no complete long-term debt account. The
satisfactory current ratio of 1:7 was mainly due to the high level of
receivables. To correct this situation, the Project included a financial
recovery program aimed at reducing receivables, improving inventory/
procuremert management, reducing operating costs and preparing separate
financial statements for electricity, gas and water.
5.   The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for the Rwanda Power Project (Credit
1495-RW, hereafter referred to as the "Project") noted that there was no
power development program in the country but added that, through
participation in the Ruzizi II hydroelectric project (27 MW in the first
phase), Rwanda would have an adequate supply of electricity for several
years.   The Government's priorities for the power sector were:   (a)
mobilizing domestic power resources to meet growing electricity demand;
(b) increasing the accessibility of rural areas to electricity; and (c)
improving the reliability of the existing system. The Bank's objectives,
in support of the Government's priorities in the sector, were:   (a)
creating a sound, financially viable electric utility; (b) developing a
least-cost power expansion plan for the country; and (c) reducing the
economic losses associated with frequent power outages and voltage
fluctuations by improving system reliability.
C.   Prolect Origin. Desian and Oraanization
6.   Originally, the Ruzizi II Regional Hydroelectric Project (Credits
1419-BU, 1420-RW, 1421-ZR), in addition to constructing a hydroelectric
plant, was to cover transmission and distribution facilities for the three
countries involved (Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire). But because of project
preparation constraints, it was necessary to separace the transmission and
distribution components from Ruzizi II and implement them as national
power projects of which one was the Rwanda Power Project. Later, during
the design phase of the Rwanda Power Ptoject, there was a further
modification.   The Bank's issues paper on the Project noted "... that
because of time constraints in preparation and the urgent need to press on
with the badly needed system rehabilitation, the Rwanda power project
would  be  split  into  two  projects:    the  proposed  Power  Network
Rehabilitation Project, leaving the new transmission lines extending
service to new consumers to the following years."   The paper also
recommended that a second project be included in the lending program if
that were not possible, that the Government be advised immediately so that
they could seek alternative financing sources.   Finally, however, the
Caisse Centrale de Coop6ration Economique (CCCE) made additional funds
available to rehabilitate the medium voltage transmission network, freeing
IDA funds for construction of two new MV Iines of high economic return.
Also, in 1982, the Joint UNDP/Bank Energy Assessment Program had prepared



- 3 -
an energy assessment report on Rwanda.1/ This report raised two issues
which the Bank took into account in the design of the Project: the need
to  improve  the  efficiercy  of  the  power  system  and  to  strengthen
Electrogaz as an institution.
7.   A Project Preparation Facility advar.ce (PPF), amounting to US$440,000
was extendr4 to the Government in 1982, covering engineering studies for
the rehabilitation of the Ntaruka plant, the transmission system
requirements and the revaluation of Flectrogaz' assets. Work under the
PPF advance provided useful information for project preparation.
Engineering consultants inspected the Ntaruka power plant and concluded
that the tunnel h..d the penstock were in good shape, needing (nly minor
repair. However, the turbines required considerable repairs. Concerning
the transmission system, the consultant noted that work on the
transmission system would require changes to the facilities of the Jorpina
and Gikondo sub-stations which supply power to Kigali. New transformers
with corresponding disconnects were required to allow for convenient and
uninterrupted service. There was considerable discussion about the need
for telemetering and remote control equipment in order to facilitate power
dispatching. The revaluation of assets under the PPF advance lead to a 22
percent increase in the book value of Electrogaz' assets at the end of
1983.
8.   During project preparation, the question arose whether there shoul.d
be an increase in electricity rates, but finally there was a decision to
postpone any increase until the reorganization of Electrogaz, supported by
the Water Supply Project financed by IDA and the CCCE2/, had achieved
anticipated reductions in operating costs.   In the meantime, however,
there was a need to include financial covenants covering minimum
requirements for cash generation, and the hiring of technical specialists
and Rwandese counterparts along with adopting procedures relating to
Electrogaz' financing and administration.
D.   Project Objectives and Description
9.   The Project's main objectives were to:  (a) improve reliability of
the production, transmission and distribution of electricity; (b) serve
additional electricity consumers (c) help sustain the contribution to
economnic growth by the industrial and commercial sectors of the country;
and (d) strengthen Electrogaz in its planning, management, organization of
its electricity department, general operations and maintenance.
10. The physical components to meet these objectives consisted of (a) the
rehabilitation of the Ntaruka power station (Rwanda's second largest), (b)
the rehabilitation of the transmission network; (c) the construction of
twe 4w transmissioc lines; (d) the supply of maintenance equipment and
s     parts; and (e)  he provision of vehicles.  The Project also provided
- ts, services to complement the aforementioned institutional
:ovement program (para. 8).   Three types of complementary advisory
_._vices were to be provided by the Power Project.
1/ Rwanda: Issues and Options in the Energy Sector (Report No. 3779-RW).
2/ A component of the Water Supply Project (Cr. 1345-RW) provided a management
assistance team from the Societe d'Amenagement Urbain et Rural (SAUR), financed by the
CCCE. This assistance focussed on accounting, budgeting procedures, billing, receivables,
procurement, warehouses/inventory, personnel management, revision of rates for water and
electricity and the establishment of a computerized accounting system.



(a)     Adviser to the General Manager.  The manager had requested
an adviser to assist in the organization and supervision of
the company.   The CCCE was to fund the cost of such an
adviser for not less than three years;
lb)     Engineering Adviser.    The main  responsibility  of  this
adviser was to assist Electrogaz in preparing a five-year
power soctor investment plan. In addition, the adviser was
to set up an engineering unit, assist in project design and
implementation, provide advice on operation and maintenance
of the system and prepare an action plan to investigate the
high losses in the system.   The adviser was also to be
funded by the CCCE.
(c)     Training Advisers.   The Projict was to provide for two
specialists   to   ti.-n   staff   in   system   protection,
communication an    intenance.
11.  The estimated total  cost of the Project was US$19.3  million,
excluding interest during construction.   The Bank' s Credit of US$ 9
million (SDR 8.5 million) was to account fo- 47% and was to finance (a)
repayment of the PPF (US$ 1,000,000)3/ .or preliminary engineering
studies, detailed design, preparation of contract documents and project
supervisors and (b) 100% of the foreign component for the rehabilitation
of the Ntaruka power station, new transmission lines, maintenance
equipment and spare parts; vehicles and consulting engineering.   The
Goverrunent of France, through the CCCE, was to provide the equivalent of
US$ 9.2 million to finance the services of the two advisers mentioned
above and the rehabilitation of the medium voltage transmission system.
Electrogaz and the Government were to provide the remaining 1.1 million.
E.   Project Implementation
12.  Overview.   During most of its implementation period, the Project
experienced major problems in the areas of project management (para. 14)
and the availability of funds (para. 15) to fulfill contracts under tha
project.  '.ere was a six-month delay in the completion of the project
which was June 1988 instead of December 1987 as estimated in the SAR. The
major physical works of the Project -- the rehabilitation of the Ntaruka
power plant, the rehabilitation of existing transmission lines and the
construction of new transmission lines -- are completed but there are some
outstanding technical problems surrounding the rehabilitation of Ntaruka,
and a need for improvements in distribution services (paras. 17-18, 37).
Concerning technical assistance under the project, the late arrival of the
Engineering Adviser to Electrogaz caused a delay in the preparation of the
five-year investment plan (para. 32).
13. In addition to reporting on specific Project components, supervision
.ports on the Project also reviewed progress made in technical assistance
-.r institutional improvements to Electrogaz under Water Supply Credit No.
1345-RW, since the technical assistance under the Project was
complementary to some of this work. The institutional studies under the
Water Supply Credit were completed by mid-1986, but the Government
refrained from restructuring Electrogaz pending anticipated measures for
cverall  public  enterprise  reform.    T1.  tariff  study  financed  by
3/ During negotiations, Electrogaz requested an increase in the PPF from US$ 440,000
to US$1,000,000 to cover engineering costs until the effectiveness of the credit, i.e. the
preparation of detailed design and tender documents, as well as the call for and analysis of
tenders.



Electricit6 de France (EDF) was completed in 1987, but the Government did
not implement the reco.mmerded rate adjustments (rhanges -.o the peak energy
charges and a 26% increase to the MV category).
14.  Manaaement  Problems.    There were three major problems  in the
management of the Project. First, there was a considerable delay in the
arrival of the Engineering Adviser (late 1985) and as a result, there was
a delay in preparing the five-year investment and loss reduction plans.
Second, the completion of the rehabilitation work at Ntaruka was not
satisfactory.   Before informing the Bank,  the company accepted the
rehaoilitation work as complete when there were serious reservations about
the performance of the rehabilitated units (para. 19). Furthermore, they
did not heed the Bank's recommendations to extend the consulting
engineer's contract or to seek a ..'eplacement for him after the completion
of the Project in order to resolve several technical issues at the Ntaruke
power plant (para. 30). Third, there were major delays in the payment of
the consulting engineer.
15.  Funding Problem.  There was a shortfall Ji Project financing after
full disbursement of the IDA Credit in October 1987.   The shortfall
amounted to US$ 2.1 million on contracts the Bank had approved and it
resulted mainly from currency fluctuations, except in the case of
consulting services, for which costs increased due to extension of the
consulting engineer's contract to cover (i) additional transmission system
rehabilitation work, (ii) a fire at the Ntaruka power station (covered by
the contractor's insurance) and (iii) completion of the Project six-months
later than planned in the SAR.   German funding was utilized to pay
outstanding balances on contracts for vehicles, spares and maintenance
equipment; it is unclear how overruns in DM for consulting services were
financed. Overruns on workshop and warehouse construction and erection of
transmission lines were financed from the Rwandese Government Development
Budget.   The Government apparently had requested funds from the Swiss
Government to finance the shortfall on the Ntaruka rehabilitation contract
but it is not clear that such an agreement was concluded. CCCE financed
network rehabilitation costs were considerably higher in dollar terms than
the appraisal estimate (final cost of US$16.4 million compared to an
estimated US$7.6 million) mainly due to revaluation of the French franc
against US dollar during the project execution period.
16.  Performance Indicators.  The SAR established performance targets for
the level of losses in the power system, the number of connections per
employee, the rate of return on revalued assets for electricity
operations, and receivables, in terms of months of sales. The losses in
the system decreased from about 22% in 1983 to 17% in 1988 compared to an
ultimate target of 15%.  tne number of connections per employee in 1988
was 30, which was double the target in the SAR, as electricity connections
increased and the number of Electrogaz personnel declined. Concerning the
rate of return on fixed assets, Electrogaz did not prepare separate
accounts for its electricity, gas and water activities making a
calculation of a return on electricity operations alone highly subjective
and of little value. The situation of receivables, in terms of months of
sales, fluctuated during the project implementation period owing to
periodic compensations between debt due to the State by Electrogaz and
Government receivables.   There was, however, little overall improvemant
at the end of the implementation period compared with the receivable
situation at Project start-up (9.7 and 10.5 months respectively).
F.   Proiect Results
17. Ntaruka Rehabilitation. The Ntaruka hydro-electric power station has
three turbine-generator groups of 3.75 MW each. Prior to the Project, the
original manufacturer had replaced the turbine rotor of Group I.  The
Project included the rehabilitation of the other two 3.75 MW groups and
completion of the earlier rehabilitation work on Group I. In accordance



with the SAR, the bidding documents specified that the original
manufacturer was to supply replacement rotors for all units. The lowest
bidder did not comply with that specification so the consulting engineer
telexed the Bank recommending rejection of the bid and requesting the
Bank's comments. The Bank replied that it would comment after receiving
the Borrower's recommendation. In subsequent correspondence, Electrogaz
stated that compliance with that specification was not essential and that
the contractor had guaranteed to restore the groups to their performance
as new. Therefore, the consulting engineer telexed that, in view of this
guarantee, he withdrew his objection.
18. The Bank accepted Electrogaz' recommendation to award the contract
for the rehabilitation works to the lowest bidder, who used turbine rotors
not made by the original manufacturer.   After rehabilitation of the
Ntaruka station, cavitation limited its output to 3.6 MW for Group I, and
to 3.2 MW for the other two groups, about 11 percent less than the
station's nominal rating.   The greater output of Group I seemed to
indicate the advantage of using a rotor made by the original manufacturer.
19. Before the end of his contractual obligations, the consulting
engineer had recommended imposing contract penalties on the firm
responsible for the rehabilitation work because of the shortfall in
output. However, in February 1989, Electrogaz informed a Bank mission
that rather than collect damages, it was exploring, with the assistance of
experts provided by German aid, how the contractor could increase the
output of the turbines.  It is likely that German aid will finance the
corrective works.    The February mission's  aide memoire  noted that
satisfactory resolution of the Ntaruka issue was a matter of great urgency
and that Electrogaz should inform the Bank of any developments in this
area. Howeveir, in late 1939, Electrogaz accapted the rehabilitation of
Ntaruka as complete, without informing the Bank and without imposing
penalties, although the output remained at 10 MW compared to a nominal
capacity of 11.25 MW. Electrogaz explained to the Bank that it did not
have a legal case for collecting damages for two reasons.   First,
Electrogaz had lost the records of the actual output performance for
Groups II and III, when the units in these groups were new; these records
were essential for making a claim. Second, in the case of Group I, the
power shortfall was less than the five percent tolerance allowed in the
contract hefore the imposition of penalties.
20. Another technical problem arose during 1989, when the contractor
damaged a connection on the alternator of Group I. The contractor made a
repair which did not hold and Electrogaz took the group out of service in
October 1989 but was unable to repair it.  The contractor subsequently
denied responsibility and the group remained out of service during much of
1990.
21.  Maintenance eauinment. snares and vehicles.  Although Electrogaz has
stated that the delivery of these items has been satisfactory, the
distribution system, including some medium-voltage facilities, 4/
remains in poor shape due to lack of spares and overloading. Apparently
there has been some replacement of broken protective devices by untested
makeshift arraxvgements. Furthermore, according to Electrogaz, some of the
spare parts were used for system extension rather than rehabilitation.
22. New Transmission Lines. The Project completed two 30-kV transmission
lines, one between Ntaruka and Cyanika (15 km) and the other between
Gifurwe and Gakenke (24 km). Line construction work was generally
satisfactory. There were delays in constructing associated distribution
4/ These facilities were not covered by the rehabilitation works included in the Project.



facilities but some progress took place in 1989, with German aid financing
230 connections for the two lines.
23.  Transmission System Rehabilitation.  Virtually all now transmission
equipment provided under the Project is in place, but interface problems
arose between equipment installed by the two contractors involved in the
rehabilitation works. Furthermore, the settings of protective devices were
not correct at the end of the project implementation period, and the
protection system could not teil real trouble from false alarms, resulting
in unnecessary disconnections of parts of the network.
24.  Load DisDatctiina. At the Gikondo dispatch center, the meter readings
corresponding to some of the substations were wrong because there was a
change in the settings of current transformers during the installation of
protective devices.   Gikondo'e staff apparently did not know the new
settings  and  therefore  cannot  interpret  the  readings.    Additional
dispatching problems also remain related to substandard or inappropriate
equipment.
25.  Power Outages.  A major factor in the economic justification of the
transmission system rehabilitation was the elimination of outages which
were extremely high at the time of project appraisal (para. 3).   Annex 1
provides a profile of electricity service interruptions during 1983-89 in
terms of fault frequency, total fault duration, and average fault
duration. These interruptions are additional to scheduled interruptions
required to install and service equipment. The data provided in Annex 1
separate outage information for the high-voltage network (70 and 110 kV)
and the medium-voltage network (15 and 30 kV).  For the medium-voltage
system, there is also information on outage durations per km, which are
notable since the length of this network nearly doubled during the Project
period, from 507 km to 957 km.
26. Figures 1 and 2 of Annex 1 show the number and duration of system
outages in the high-voltage (HV) system. There was an appreciable decline
in the number of outages from nearly 400 in 1983 to about 300 in 1989.
However, the duration of outages rose substantially, from 85 hours in 1983
to about 175 hours in 1988.  Correspondingly, the average outage time,
which had fluctuated in the range of 5 to 13 minutes during 1983-1987,
suddenly rose sharply in 1988 to about 36 minutes and then tapered off
slightly to around 32 minutes in 1989.
27.  Figures 3 and 4 of Annex 1 diagram the outage profile of the medium-
voltage (MV) system. In this system, the number of outages increased from
about 325 in 1983 to a high of nearly 675 in 1988, followed by a decrease
to about 400 in 1989. There was a substantial corresponding increase in
outage duration from about 58 hours to nearly 260 hours during 1983-88,
declining to about 160 hours in 1989. Average outage duration increased
from about 10 minutes to 24 minutes in 1983-88 and this high level
remained unchanged in 1989. At the same time, the duration of outages per
km increased from around 6 minutes to about 16 minutes during 1989-88, but
declined to the 1983 level in 1989.
28. Overall, the outage profile shows a surge in outages due apparently
to problems in adjusting to new transmission system equipment and
extensions of the medium-voltage system. The trend since 1988 reflects
increasing reliability of equipment but longer time required to locate and
correct outages due to the lack of system discrimination and more complex
equipment. Outages still remain high, however and Electrogaz maintains
that the contractors have not responded to its requests for correcting the
system deficiencies relating to the outages. In the absence of the
supervising consulting engineer, it is difficult to determine who is
responsible for coordinating the work. During 1989, Electrogaz started
some remedial work, using its own staff, Led by a technician financed by
EDF. There are indications that the situation is beginning to improve,
since the daration of outages has started to decline. However, it is too



early to determine whether the rehabilitation of the transmission system
will achieve the results expected at appraisal.
29.  Mururu Substation Issue.  An issue also arose at the end of the
implementation period over the configuration of Rwanda's   Mururu  I
substation, through which Electrogaz receives power from Zaire's Ruzizi
power plant. After Project rehabilitation work on Mururu I, some of the
substation's equipment was dismantled and transferred to a new substation,
Mururu II, in order that Rwanda could also receive power from the Ruzizi
II plant. The Soci6t6 Internationale d'Electricit6 des Pays des Grands
Lacs (SINELAC) the regional power cou..pany created to construct and operate
the Ruzizi II plant, operates Mururu II and, as a result of a design
change in the Ruzizi II Project5/, now controls part of the distribution
network of Electrogaz. This arrangement is unacceptable to Electrogaz,
which would like assistance to modify tl.e Mururu I- Ruzizi II connection
to regain control of its network. The Bank has indicated that it would
have no objection to such a change.
30.  Consulting Engineer  for Plant  Rehabilitation.    In June  1988,
Electrogaz decided not to extend the contract for the consulting engineer
supervising the rehabilitation of the Ntaruka power station, despite the
fact that the commissioning of major equipment was still in progress and
some serious technical issues had arisen about the station's operation
after the rehabilitation work. There was no follow-up on repeated Bank
recommendations to extend the contract, or to appoint another consultant.
31.  Management Improvements. Technical assistance under the Project was
to include an Adviser to the Director and an Engineering Adviser for
electricity operations, both to be financed by CCCE (para. 10) Their
employment by Electrogaz was a condition in the Project Agreement.  In
1986, a Bank supervision report stated that SAUR, the consulting team for
management and water studies, was providing a part-time adviser to the
Director (on a bi-monthly basis) but it does not seem that such part-time
arrangement could have been sufficient considering the management needs of
the company. Electrogaz informed the Bank that they had not appointed an
adviser on their own because they believed that confusion would have
arisen between his advisory and executive functions. However, there were
precedents for such an arrangement and a similar arrangement for an
Electrogaz team working on the transmission system seems to have been
satisfactory.
32. Engineering Adviser. There was a delay in the appointment of the
Engineering Adviser, who did not arrive until October 1985.   He was
supposed to have helped Electrogaz prepare, by June 1985, a five-year
investment program and an action plan to reduce electricity losses.
Although Electrogaz had put together a provisional investment program for
projecting electricity rates, it was later decided that Rwanda should
engage the services of a firm specialized in power planning to prepare a
long-term, least-cost, Power Master Plan.  A planning unit was created
within Electrogaz, but de facto planning responsibility has remained with
MPWE. Electrogaz subsequently produced a plan for reducing losses to the
10% level and took constructive measures which resulted in some reduction
of losses (para. 16).
33. The Engineering Adviser's most important contribution has been a
comprehensive proposal for a unit to oversee the maintenance of the
transmission network, covering organization, staffing and equipment, and
a list of spare parts needed to complete the rehabilitation of
transmission  facilities.    Unfortunately,  Electrogaz  has  implemented
recommendations only partially. Furthermore, because the Adviser was not
5I IDA Credits 1419-BU, 1420-RW and 1421-ZR supported the Project to construct the
Ruzizi II regional hydroelectric plant which began operation in July 1989.



fully integrated into the management team, he lacked the necessary
overview and authority to make a substantial impact and his work was
confined to discr-te tasks. However, Electrogaz made much more effective
use of the Adv' r's assistant, a technician also financed by the CCCE.
The assistant nias been supervising an Electrogaz team in charge of
correcting the transmission system deficiencies left by the contractors.
34. Trainina. Training advisers were not appointed during the project
execution period. However, training in system protection and maintenance
is foreseen under a German Technical Cooperation program. Financing for
communication training is yet to be identified.
35. Economic Impact. The SAR calculated economic rates of return at 12%
for the rehabilitation of the Ntaruka plant, 17% for the rehabilitation of
the existing transmission system and 10-12% for the two new transmission
lines constructed under the Project. For rehabilitation of the Ntaruka
plant, the ERR at the end of the Project has been estimated at 11.3% (base
case), slightly below that in the SAR but higher than the opportunity cost
of cap4.tal in Rwanda. Part III section six provides the details on this
ERR  calculation.    No  rate  of  return  has  been  calculated  for  now
transmission lines, as data on the number of new connections planned or
energy to be delivered to new clients was not adequate.   Owing to the
absence of complete information on the CCCE financed rehabilitation of the
MV network, no rate of return was calculated for this component either.
36.  Financial Performance of Electroaaz.   Concerning the  financial
performance of Electrogaz, the Project monitored the company's
contribution to investment, the financial rate of return on revalued
assets, the level of receivables in terms of months's due, and settlement
of Government arrears in payments for its electricity and water
consumption. The percentage contribution to investment was satisfactory
only in 1984.  For 1985-86, the percentage dropped below the targetted
25%. In 1987 and 1988, owing mainly to large increases in receivables and
stagnant sales revenues, the contribution to construction from internally
generated funds became negative; Electrogaz continued to receive
investment subsidies from the Government in spite of agreement to end this
practice. The company's rate of return has been around 2%, which is not
far from the projected rate but is still very low, due mostly to excessive
non-productive assets, mainly staff housing. Furthermore, Electrogaz has
not been re-valuing its assetE on an annual basis, as recommended by the
asset evaluation study financed by a PPF advance for the Project. Audited
financial statements for Electrogaz (covering the 1984-88 implementatiorn
period) are attached as Annex 2.
G.   Proiect Sustainability
37. In order to fully attain the Project's benefits and maintain them,
considerable remedial work is needed, including technical assistance for
power system maintenance and the development of operating practices
appropriate for the new facilities installed under the Project.
Furthermore, Electrogaz needs to make significant improvements to the
quality of distribution services in order for the benefits of the Project
to reach consumers.  Electrogaz agrees that this is a priority and has
requested that such works be included in the proposed Energy Sector
project under preparation.   Additional technical  assistance will be
required to sustain progress made in strengthening Electrogaz' commercial
activities and accounting and to implement organizational changes,
improved financial management and power sector planning all aimed at
greater autonomy for the enterprise. Institutional reform will also be
included in the focus of the aforementioned Energy project.



- 10 -
H.   Bank Performance
38.  The Bank found itself in a difficult position over the Ntaruka
contract issue (paras. 17-19).  The consulting engineer's telex on the
rejection of the lowest bidder may wll have been a request for Bank
support in resisting pressures from the Borrower to take advantage of a
low bid. If this were the case, the consultant should have persisted in
his objection.   One could argue that the Bank could have delved more
deeply into the situation. However, the Bank could not have responded
before receiving the Borrower's recommendation. To do otherwise, would
have been tantamount to participating in the Borrower's bidder selection.
Concerning the contract of the consulting engineer for the Ntaruka
rehabilitation work, it was appropriate for the Bank to insist on its
extension after June 1988. But unfortunately, the Bank's leverage in the
matter had largely disappeared with the full disbursement of the Credit in
October 1987. The Bank should have given greater attention in the design
of the Project to the distribution works needed to realize the benefits of
the new MV transmission lines; a component for new connections should have
been incorporated in the project. Finally, the Bank could have invoked
the appropriate remedies when financial covenants were not met, but did
not do so.  This was mainly due to the rapid disbursement of the IDA
credit which lessened the leverage which could have been applied, and to
the realization that excessive Government intervention in Electrogaz'
operations often prevented the latter from taking the actions necessary to
meet its obligations.
I.   Borrower Performance
39. Electrogaz was the Project's implementing agency for the Borrower
(the Government of Rwanda), responsible for the execution of the Project
which the credit supported. Electrogaz, along with the Bank, found itself
in a difficult position in the bidding process for the Ntaruka
rehabilitation.   It is understandable that Electrogaz wanted to take
advantage of the lowest bid, but subsequent events showed the merit of the
original bid document requirement which specified that new rotors should
come from the original manufacturer (para. 17). The reduced output of the
plant has resulted, for Groups II and III, from not adhering to these
requirements.    since Electrogaz  did  not  have  sufficient  qualified
management staff, the company's rationale for not appointing an Adviser to
the General Manager  (para.  31)  does not seem  justified.   A clear
definition of the Adviser's responsibilities and authority could have
eliminated the perceived confusion which Electrogaz seems to have feared.
Furthermore, Electrogaz' record keeping for the Project has not been fully
satisfactory, as evidenced by the loss of records, which were critical to
the Ntaruka plant's contractual issues (para. 19).   Maintaining good
records should receive attention from Electrogaz in future management
improvements. The Government could have made a greater contribution to
improving Electrogaz' financial performance by promptly settling its
electricity and water bills, and by setting power rates in line with sound
economic and financial pricing principles (paras. 36 and 13).
J.   Proiect Relationships
40.  There does not seem to have been sufficient understanding between the
Government and the Bank on priorities for network investment.   At
appraisal, the Government expressed its interest in the construction of
medium-voltage lines totalling 343 km, but there was sufficient economic
justification for only two lines, totalling 39 km, and the Project
included these. However, the MV network increased by 450 km during the
period of project execution. The extensions of the MV system outside the
Project, when extension of the distribution network to make adequate use
of the two new lines constructed by one Project and general distribution
network rehabilitation should have received greater priority, exemplifies
the need for rational investment planning and increased coordination among



- 11 -
donors. Furthermore, the technical problems associated with this project
are not unique.   Similar problems of varying severity have affected
Rwanda's Mukungwa and Gihira power plants, which would suggest that there
is a pattern of unsatisfactory performance by consultants and/or
contractors, which appears to have been accepted as unavoidable by the
Government and Electrogaz.
41. Several joint supervision missions were undertaken with Bank water
supply sector and CCCE staff with emphasis on general institutional
strengthening and improved financial management for Electrogaz. Through
good cooperation, a unified position on major issues was presented to
Electrogaz and the Government.
K.   Consulting Services
42.  The same consultant who prepared the Project also supervised it.
There were no unexpected major works excepc that towards the end of the
Project's execution, it became apparent that Ntaruka's cooling system
needed rehabilitating. The need for additional work is not unusual in a
rehabilitation project because it often is possible to identify the full
extent of wear only after dismantling equipment for overhaul.           The
consulting engineer's initial recommendation on the award of the Ntaruka
contract turned out to be justified and he should have resisted pressures
to change it (para. 18). Although Electrogaz verbally has expressed its
disappointment with the consulting engineer's performance, the company has
not been willing to document its apparent dissatisfaction.   The main
complaint concerns the consultant's apparent lack of specialized expertise
needed to handle some of the technical problems that arose following
commissioning oi the plant. It is true that the consulting engineer did
not resolve an issue on the design of turbirA shear-pins, on which he had
protracted discussions with the contractor. However, an expert, provided
by German aid, ultimately helped to resolve the issue. Furthermore, the
consulting engineer did not react sufficiently to problems in the
transmission system but, in terms of system performance, the average
duration of outages did not exceed 1983 values until 1988, after his
contract  had ended.    Finally,  there were  payment  arrears  due  the
consultant, amounting to $550,000, and the consultant perhaps would have
been more motivated to provide additional specialists if payment had been
timely, thus enhancing overall performance under the consulting contract.
Electrogaz should appoint a new Engineering Adviser, and in the meantime,
should enhance the effectiveness of the expatriate advisers already
working for the company, by integrating them more closely into the
Electrogaz management team.
L.   Conclusions and Lessons Learned
43. The Project was among the early rehabilitation projects in the Bank
and the first Bank Group supported power project in Rwanda.   Some
difficulties in Project execution and shortcomings in the rehabilitation
work were, therefore, understandable.  Although the physical works are
complete, the sustainability of the Project's benefits hinges on (a)
resolution of the outstanding technical issues in the operation of the
rehabilitated Ntaruxa units (paras. 17-20) and (b) remedial work,
including technical assistance for improving maintenance and operational
practices (paras. 19 and 36). There is considerable scope for a follow-up
project focussing on improvements to the distribution system and
restructuring of Electrogaz as an autonomous public utility. The Rwandese
Government and Electrogaz have expressed an interest in such a project
which is presently under preparation by the Bank Group.
44. The major lesson to learn from this Project is that future projects
in Rwanda should be designed to ensure the proper completion of work under
highest priority components to avoid the situation, discussed in para. 42,



- 12 -
concerning the extension of the consulting engineer's contract.  A prudent
measure would be to program rehabilitation works in phases, designing the
first phase to include essential components and the second phase to
include components which, though economically justified, could be
postponed. Contracts would be written accordingly.
45. A second lesson is the need to establish and enforce procedures to
obtain satisfactory performance from consultants and contractors. Three
sets of actions appear necessary. First, procedures should ensure that
records of past performance are adequately taken into account at the time
of qualification for bidding. Second, performance security should fully
reflect the risk inherent in obtaining full performance. The proposal to
not use the original manufacturer's replacement rotors as originally
specified in the bid documents should have been reflected in the
contractor's  performance guarantee.    Third,  undue delays  in paying
consultants and contractors should be avoided.
46. The third lesson is that basic policy changes related to
institutional reform should be implemented as upfront conditions.
Electrogaz would probably have managed the physical works of the Project
better had its management and financial situation been strengthened early
in the project implementation period.
47. Finally, the Project has shown the need for agreement, with the
Government and the implementing agency, on an overall framework for
investment planning in the power sector, which would specify sector
priorities. The lack of a planning framework is partly responsible for
concerns about the sustainability of the Project's benefits.



- 13 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Introduction
48. Until 1978 the energy consumed in Rwanda was produced by the Ntaruka
and Gisenyi power stations as well as several generating sets located in
different areas of the country.
45. Around 1974, economic development and electricity supply problems had
prompted the establishment of an interconnected grid that initially linked
the Ntaruka power station with Ruzisi I, and later with Mukungwa, which
was to be commissioned in December 1981.
50. Operating since 1959 and supplying a high-voltage network 150 km
long, the Ntaruka plant was not rehabilitated until April 1984, when a
Credit Agreement was signed with the International Development Association
for US$9 million. A credit of FF 120 million was additionally negotiated
with the Caisae Centrale de Coop6ration Economique (CCCE) to restore the
reliability of the national electricity network.
51. As the rehabilitation of the Ntaruka plant and restoration of
reliability of the national electricity network were to improve the
services provided by Electrogaz, this component of special interest tc
Electrogaz was included in the Rwanda Power Project.   To achieve the
project objective, a number of activities were awarded to eight firms
selected in accordance with procurement procedures in effect in Rwanda.
The works, eivided into eight lots, were briefly:
-       Rehabilitation of the Ntaruka generating station;
-       Restoration of the reliability of the national electricity
network;
-       Improvement  of  maintenance  infrastructure  (logietical
support);
-       Expansion  of  spare  parts  inventory  and  maintenance
equipment;
-       Construction of a warehouse and three repair and maintenance
shops;
-       Expansion of the medium-voltage (30 kV) distribution network
through the construction of two 30-kV (Ntaruka-Cyanika and
Gifurwe-Gakenke),   including   30/0.4   kV   distribution
substations in the centers crossed by the lines;
-       Support for management and training of technicatl personnel
at Electrogaz;
-       Study of the project and monitoring of implementation.
B.   Ntaruka Hydroelectric Generating Station
52. The rehabilitated Ntaruka plant is located between Bulera and Ruhondo
Lakes. A supply tunnel and penstock supply the generating sets from Lake
Bulera over a drop in elevation of about 100 m.
53. The power plant has three generating sets aligned horizontally,
consisting of a (double) Francis turbine and a synchronous generator, the
excitation of which is of the parallel static type fed by offtake from the
generator.



- 14 -
54.  Rehabilitation Works at the Plant.  The works execution contract was
concluded on June 1, 1985 for an 18-month period, and all rehabilitated
machinery at the plant was to be in service by no lator than November 30,
1986.
55. The rehabilitation program had been initially set as follows:
-       Group II in rehabilitation while I and III were in service;
-       Group I in rehabilitation while II and III remained in
service.
56. Unfortunately, following an incident involving Group III on April 26,
1986, the timetable for the works an a whole was readjusted so that by
mutual agreement the end of the testing period (marc2e industrlelle) for
all groups was postponed to April 30, 1988.
57.  Thus,  Group  III  preceded  Group  I,  which  should  have  e-on
rehabilitated in the second phase. Following the incident involving Group
III, responsibility was attributed to the contractor, which bore all
additional costs related to supplies and works made necessary by that
incident, namely:
-       replacement of the turbine wheel and shaft;
-       replacement of the stator;
-       replacement of bearings and bearing supports;
-       replacement of suction elbow;
-       repair of rotor shaft and rotor poles;
-       repair/replacement of oil rings and seals;
-       repair of the damaged civil works.
58.  Most of the anomalies and defects observed during the testing period
of the generating sets were resolved prior to their provisional transfer
to Electrogaz on May 5, 1987 for Group II, June 7, 1987 for Group III and
November 26, 1987 for Group I. The remaining items on the list were to be
resolved during the warranty period.
59. An acceptance commission was set up by Rwandas Contract Award
Council and visited Ntaruka on November 29, 1988 to observe the quality of
the  rehabilitation  works  carried  out   in  accordance  with  the
recommendations of the Council and the specifications.
60. During the inspection visit, a number of problems were noted and the
contractor was requested to resolve them before the Chairman of the Award
Council issued a provisional acceptance.
61. The problems noted by the members of the Commission included
cavitation, since in accordance with the specifications of the machinery,
generator output was to reach 3.75 MW without risk of damage. However,
the rehabilitated machinery could not achieve that power.
62. The contractor noted, however, that the cavitation problem was tied
to the hydraulic structure of the whole installation and could not be
avoided %ithout changing that structure, a change that the consulting
engineer rejected.
63. After the acceptance commission reviewed the available documentation,
which showed that for Group I cavitation was experienced at 3.47 NM, and
after observing that the operating conditions in 1959, when the plant was



- 15 -
commissioned, had changed significantly, in particular as regards the
change in elevation, which fell from 103 m to 100 m, and that, in
addition, the measurements taken during the trials were recognized as
being in conformity because they were identical in tolerance to within 2%
of those for Group I in 1959. The commission felt that the contractor had
met its obligations with regard to output.
64.  In view of the foregoing, provisional acceptance was given on June 2,
1989 and final acceptance for all works on January 16, 1991 by the
Chairman of the Award Council on the basis of the report given him by a
committee set up for that purpose, which inspected the plant on December
24, 1990.
65.  Regarding the subject of cavitation, the experts from the German
Technical Cooperation who were contacted found that the defect was not
conventional cavitation and that the problem could consequently be readily
corrected by aligning the wheel and blowing air into the suction pipe and
elbow.
66. As the same German cooperation officials had promised to contact the
wheel manufacturer mnd provide financing for the neceesary works,
performance should i   ave.
67.  Apart from that p,oblem of yield, the Ntaruka hydroelectric plant is
operating to the satisfaction of the Borrower, which uses documentation
furnished by the contractor to provide routine maintenance and upkeep.
C.   Restoration of Reliability of the National Electricity Network
68.  Rehabilitation of the National Network.   Rehabilitation of the
national network was to eliminate the weak points in the transmission and
distribution system to ensure reliability and enhance protection of
equipment, facilities, operating personnel and users, on the one hand, and
to meet the demand for electricity on the other.   To achieve that
objective, the contractor was to carry out the following tasks:
manufacture of equipment and materials, factory trials, delivery,
handling, transportation to the site, assembly of equipment and materials
at the worksite, commissioning of facilities, operating trials and
facility maintenance during the warranty period as well as training of
Electrogaz personnel involved in running the rehabilitated network.
69.  The statistics on disturbances for the year 1983 served as the
baseline data justifying substation rehabilitation of stations and
improvement of the protection system.
70. The frequency of network disturbances was due to unplanned outages
attributable to the condition of equipment, relays, circuit breakers and
their settings.
71. Following the rehabilitation works, network discrimination was as
mediocre as before, but Electrogaz, with valuable assistance from EDF
Technical Cooperation and eager to improve service to clientele, carried
out certain works in the stead of the contract awardee, who had not
bothered to remedy the problems observed, claiming that such works would
be carried out during the warranty period.   The works carried out by
Electrogaz falling within the purview of the network rehabilitation
contract would include adjustment of distance relay zones and ground fault
coefficient settings, function changes and zone extensions in stage
acceleration mode, construction of phase selectors, increase in time
delays of all directional/land relays using a phasing system, adaptation
of pole discrepancy relays to the single phase reclosing time-delays,
adjustment of telecommand wiring, etc.   Following the works,  system
discrimination is now achieved.



- 16 -
72. Apart from these finishing works that the contractor did not carry
out, we feel that the network rehabilitation was done in technical
conformity with the bidding documents.
73.  As  regards  the  overall  teletranamission  uyste:i; consisting  of
powerline-carrier linkages using the high-voltage aerial lines for the
transmission of protection signals, telephone communications and
telemetering, the rehabilitation works were carried out to the
satisfaction of Electrogaz.
74. Nevertheless, the mimic diagram prepared by the consulting engineer
would have been more useful had it used darkened conditions rather than an
illuminated situation.  To the extent possible, corrections nee: to be
made. According to the estimate prepared by CGEE Alathom on July 7, 1989,
that work would cost FF 323,000.
75.  As regards remote transmission and information messaging, the system
used requires human intervention whenever there is an interruption in
network voltage or disturbance in supply. Since the substations and power
plants are located throughout the national territory, rapid operation is
not possible and hence automatic reset of remote terminal unite (RTUs) is
required. To that end, the existing RTU volatile memory software must be
switched from RAM to resident EEPROM memory so that the RTU does not have
to be downloaded except when the memory board is replaced or the data base
modified.
76.  This change in software to ensure better system operation would cost
FF 425,000, according to the 1989 Alsthom CGEE estimate.
77. The construction of two 30-kV power transmission lines with feeders
was done to state-of-the-art standards and the full satisfaction of the
Borrower.
78.  It is nevertheless highly unfortunate that the project had not
provided for any expansion in low-voltage or client connections, but
thanks to German financing, the low-voltage network could be completed.
Two hundred and thirty subscribers are now served by the Ntaruka-Cyanika
and Gifurwe-Gakenke lines in question.
79. With a view to maximizing the return on the project, Electrogaz
installed a line between the Gifurwe substation to Kirambo subprefecture,
which made it possible to connect an additional 40 subscribers.
D.   Revaluation of Proiect Costs
80.  T'-  total project cost was RwF 2,143,955,214,  provided by three
sources, namely the Government of Rwanda (RwF 275,787,389), World Bank/IDA
Credit 1495-RW (SDR 8,500,000 (US$9 million)) and the Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (FF 120,000,000).
81.  The World Bank credit financed the rehabilitation of the Ntaruka
power station (SDR 2,460,000), construction of the new 30-kV Ntaruka-
Cyanika and Gifurwe-Gakenke lines (SDR 940,000), equipment for upkeep and
spare parts (SDR 2,080,000), purchase of vehicles (SDR 850,000),
consultant fees for works supervision (SDR 290,000), and repayment of the
PPF advance (SDR 940,000).
82.  The CCCE loan financed the restoration of reliability of the national
electricity network (FF 108,000,000) and support for Electrogaz management
and miscellaneous studies (FF 12,000,000).
83.  The agreement concluded between the World Bank and the Government of
Rwanda specified that the latter would finance the portion in local
currency and any cost overrun.   The project ran  into difficulties



- 17 -
throughout most of its execution, .wost often because the necessary funds
were not available to cover project contracts. Accordingly, US$2,100,000
had to be shouldered by the Government after total disbursement of the
credit in October 1987, owing to fluctuations in the exchange rate.
84. For the rehabilitation of the Ntaruka plant, total commitments were
SwF 7,028,077 and RwF 42,854,792.
85. For the works on the transfcrmation substations and lines,
FF 53,405,636 and RwF 189,028,118 were committed. For teletr&nsmission,
total commitments were FF 29,500,473 and RwF 34,000,882.
86. For vehicles, total expenditure in foreign exchange was DM 1,493,944,
the balance of DM 62,560 to be paid from the KfW counterpart fund in RwF.
87. For spare parts and maintenance equipment, the total cost was
DM 1,760,334.20. The balance of DM 199,094.60 was paid by Electrogaz from
the KfW counterpart fund in RwF (RwF 9,344,227).
88. The total cost of workshop and warehouse construction was
US$805,291.28 and RwF 40,879,951. The balance of RwF 11,893,737 was paid
by the Government from the Development Budget. The construction of the
30-kV Ntaruka-Cyanika and Gifurwe-Gakenke lines cost BF 69,455,366 a-d
RwF 90,129,716. The balance of RwF 39,814,438 was paid by the Government
from the Development Budget.
89. The total cost of the project study and implementation monitoring was
DM 4,097,943.70 and RwF 16,475,433.60.
90. The following table shows overall project costs (all eight lots), for
the foreign exchange and local currency portions.
COMPANY           ESTIMATED AMOUNT                    AMOUNT PAID
in foreign         in RwF        in foreign           in RwF
exchange                          exchange
GRICH & V        SF 8,132,362      4,000,741  SF 7,028,077.06   42,854,794
GTME            FF 55,469,266    157,281,856      FF 53,405,635  189,028,118
SOFRA-TEP      FF 30,348,352      33,502,188   FF 29,500,473.3   34,000,882.7
DAIMLER BENZ    DM 1,553,019                -   DM 1,493,944
(DM    62,5603*
SAG             DM 1,959,429                -   DM 1,760,334.2      9,344,227
ASTALDI             US991,053     28,986,214        US805,291.3   40,879,951
INTERN.                                                           [11,893,7371*
ABAY            BF 84,729,082     50,314,280      BF 69,455,366   90,129,716
[39,814,438]*
FICHTNER        DM 5,392,156      18,795,760   DM 4,097,943.7    64,155,558**
* Corrected per text above.
** Paragraph 89 gives this amount as RwF 16,475,433.6.



- 18 -
E.   Conclusions
91. The Rwanda Power Project was completad with generally satisfactory
results, despite a number of problems that arose after the commissioning
of the Ntaruka plant and interconnected grid.   These problems due to
shortcomings of the studies and inexperience of the representatives of the
consulting engineer who were providing work supervision were resolved as
summarized below:
92.  The cavitation of the machinery at the Ntaruka plant prior to
achieving the expected power will be corrected by the manufacturer of the
wheel through alignment. This should improve turbine perforrnance and will
be financed by German Technical Cooperation to Electroqaz with a view to
increasing the production of the Electrogaz units.
93.  Thanks to the first-rate work of the Central Maintenance Office
(Bureau Central de Maintenance -- BCM) established by the team providing
support to Electrogaz technical management financed by the CCCE under the
Rwanda Power Project, certain services were done on behalf of GTME, which
did not see the urgency in regulating the protective relays that caused
unplanned interruptions and undermined the reliability of electricity
supply.  To remedy the situation, Electrogaz carried out the following
tasks through its safety engineer and the maintenance unit:
-       replacement of relays found to be unsuitable;
-       calculation of network stability;
-       regulation  of  relays  in  accordance  with  the  above
calculations;
-       improvement of grcunding connections following a measurement
program;
-       replacement of grounding devices with more suitable ones;
-       replacement of normal control cables by noninduction cables
for certain transformer substations;
-       assembly   of   frequency-based   automatic   load-shedding
equipment;
-       completion and connection of control circuit cables for the
Ruhengeri, Gihira and Kabarondo substations, which was not
covered by the Rwanda Power Project;
-       installation of a 70-kV circuit breaker at the Rwinkwavu
station to allow for remote control.
94. Given the sharp decrease in the frequency of outages in the high-
voltage/medium voltage network and the fact that temporary defects are
automatically eliminated (automatic mono- and tri-phase opening and
closing), Electrogaz considers that the Power Project achieved its
objective and expresses its deep gratitude to all those who contributed to
the success of the project in general and in particular the members of the
World Bank missions that visited Rwanda in connection with that project
for their valuable advice that proved of great value to Electrogaz
personnel.



- 19 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. BRelated IDA Credits
Credit/Number          Year of        Purpose of Project        StatuB
Project Title          Approval
Credit 1345-RW           1983         To improve Electrogaz'   Completed in
Water Supply Project                  capability in the areas  April 1987
of planning & admini-
stration, and finance
as well as operation
and maintenance of the
water supply network;
improve the level of
service in five
secondary centers; and
strengthen the insti-
tutional aid financial
arrangements for the
rural sub-sector.
Credit 1420-RW           1983         Construction of            Completed in
Ruzizi II Regional                    27-MW hydroelectric        June 1989
Hydroelectric Project               plant to supply intes-
connected network of
Burundi, Rwanda & Zaire
2. Proiect Timetable
Item                            Planned                     Actual
Date                      Date
-  Identification                                                  10/82
-  Preappraisal                                                    07/83
-  Appraisal                                                       10/83
-  Credit Negotiations                04/16/84                   04/23/84
-  Board Approval                     06/14/84                   06/12/84
-  Credit Signature                                              08/10/84
-  Credit Effectiveness               11/12/84                   05/01/85a/
-  Credit Closing                     06/30/88                   06/30/88
-  Project Completion                 12/31/87                      06/88 6/
a/The limit date for credit effectiveness was postponed three times.
6/ Major worics were largely completed by June 1988, but additional rehabilitation of the
transmission network, financed by the CCCE, and residual works continued into 1990.



- 20 -
3.   Credit Disbursement
Bank Fiscal Year and           Disbursement (USs million)
Quarter                             Credit 1495-RW
Estimated     Actual           Actual as % of Est.
Cumulative  Cumulative         Estimates
1985
4                       0.40        0.41                102
1986
1                       0.50        0.50               100
2                       2.50        2.57               103
3                       4.00        2.86                71
4                       6.00        3.21                 53
1987
1                       6.50        6.01                92
2                       7.00        6.44                92
3                       7.50        7.47                99
4                       8.00        8.74               109
1988
1                       8.30       10.05               121
2                       8.60       10.05               117
3                       8.80       10.05               114
4                       9.00a/     10.05a/             112
a/ The difference between estimated and actual amounts is due to exchange
rate movements between the SDR, the currency of the original Credit, and the
US$ equivalent used in the Bank's disbursement profile.
4. Project Implementation Indicators
1983*  1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
System losses.%
Target                    19      19      19      18     17      15
Actual                  22.4   20.0   15.1   17.5   16.8   17.0
Number of connections Der
elec-.riciv employee
Target
Actual                    11      11      11      13     14      15
NA     18      21      24      25     30
ROR on revalued assets
Target 7/                2.7    1.3    0.6    2.4    2.0    1.6
Actual 8/                5.0    3.0    2.2    1.1    1.6    2.0
Receivables, in months of
sales   Target                  6.0    4.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0
Actual                12.7   10.5    8.5    5.7   10.7    9.7
*Project appraisal, which took place in 1983, was based on 1982 data.
Performance objectives were agreed for 1983, but results were not available
before Board presentation.
7/    The SAR set this objective in terms of electricity fixed assets, however, Electrogaz
did not prepare accounts for its different activities, making a calculation for electricity
operations alone highly subjective and of little value.
8/    Rate of return shown covers electricity, water and gas operations for reasons given in
the preceding note.



- 21 -
5. Proiect Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs (in millions of dollars)
-    Appraisal ------   -------Actual--------
Foreign  Local  Total    Foreign  Local  Total
Ntaruka Rehabilitation             2.88    0.32    3.20        3.83   0.48    4.31
Network Rehabilitation             6.92    0.68    7.60       13.52   2.84   16.36
New Transmission Line              1.23    0.27    1.50        1.66   1.02    2.68
Vehicles                           1.00      -      1.00       0.72    -      0.72
Spares & Equipment                 1.35    0.15    1.50        0.65    -      0.65
Warehouses                         1.10      -      1.10       1.05   0.46    1.51
TA/Engineering                     2.88    0.52    3.40        1.87   0.73    2.60
17.36    1.94   19.30     23.30   5.53   28.83
Sources:  Staff Appraisal Report No. 4691-RW, ELECTROGAZ
Note: Total costs for individual project components were furnished to IDA in
their respective contract currencies (Belgian francs, French francs, Rwandese
Francs, Swiss francs, Deutsch marks, US dollars). Final project costs were then
estimated by Bank staff based on hypothetical disbursement patterns and average
annual exchange rates between the various currencies and the US dollar.  The
resulting costs are therefore indicative and should be interpreted with caution.
B. Project Financing (in millions of US dollars)
--   Appraisal ------      -------Actual--------
Foreign  Local  Total       Foreign  Local  Total
IDA                         9.0        -     9.0          9.42    0.63  10.05
CCCE                        8.2       1.0    9.2         13.52    2.84  16.36
ELECTROGAZ/
Govt. of Rwanda            -        1.1    1.1          0.36    2.06   2.42
17.2      2.1   19.3         23.00    5.53  28.83
Source: ELECTROGAZ



- 22 -
6. Proiect Results
A. Economic lmoact
Re-Evaluation of the Rate of Return on the Rehabilitation of Ntaruka
Appraisal
Estimate                  Estimated Actual
Economic Rate of Return      17.3%                      11.3%
Assumotions
1.      The re-evaluation was made in Swiss francs, the currency of the
rehabilitation contract.
2.    Cost were deflated to 1985 values. Works not executed as of 1988 were
treated as if they had been executed in 1989, the year in which Electrogaz
accepted the rehabilitation as complete. 500,000 Swiss Francs were added in
1989 for the overhaul of the cooling circuit: which was deemed necessary in
1988, but were to be executed subsquently. The damage to the alternator of
Group I was ignored except in the sensitivity analysis, for its value was
taken as its replacement cost.
3.     Benefits were taken as the avoided replacement of the units. The SAR
estimate of $500,OO per kW was used: in 1985 prices, this was equivalent to
1200 Swiss Francs per kW, or 12 million Swiss Francs for 10 MW.
4.     As the SAR stated that in the absence of rehabilitation, new groups
would be needed in 1990, their cost was split between 1989 and 1990. The
result.ng cost and benefit streams are sh-wn below, in thousands of Swiss
Francs.
Year                       1985   1986      1987     1988      1989    1990
Costs                      2202   3358      1543       0       1573
Benefits                                                       6000    6000
The resulting rate of return was 11.3%.



- 23 -
5.        Sensitivitv Analysis
Rate of return
Base case                                                      11.3%
Overhaul of cooling circuit
postponed to 1991                                              11.6%
Group I out of service for one
year (out 1988, in 1989), valued
at replacement cost                                            10.0%
Benefits postponed by one year
(i.e., without project, new groups
needed in 1991 instead of 1990)
8.5%
Group I out of service for one year,
and benefits postponed by 1 year
7.7%
B. Financial ImDact
-----------------------~ ~~ ~ ~~~~       .     .   .................................................................... .........  .  ........
1983         1984          1985          1986          1987           1988
Eat Act    Est   Act    Est   Act    Est   Act    Est   Act    Est  Act
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ............................... ........................................................................ ..... ....... ...
ate of Return (X)                 2.7   5.0    1.3   3.0    0.6   2.2    2.4   1.1    2.0   1.6    1.6   2.0
3erating Ratio                    80.4  103    89.7  89       95.5  91       83.3  130    85.3  114    87.7  109
it. gen. furds C()                54.6  -       54    51      32.8  17       38    19      46.5  -47    47.9  -50
ebt Serv. Coverage                8.3           3.6   2.7    3.4   4.6    3.7   1.9    6.4   2.2    8.0   1.4
ebt/Equity                       12/88 18/82  19/81 24/76  23/77 36/64  26/74 44/56  27/73 48/52  29/71 47/53
irrent Ratio                      3.0   1.8    2.5   2.3    2.3   1.3    2.4   1.9    2.5   1.7    2.6   1.4
iceivables (mos)                  7.0   12.7   4.0   10.5   3.0   8.5    3.0   5.7    3.0  10.7    3.0   9.7



- 24 -
7. Status of Covenants
Brief Description            Applicable    Compli-
of Covenants                 Section       ance              Remarks
Four-month limit on total      CA 3.02        No      Both limits were far exceeded.
receivables for gas,
electricity and water;
three-month limit on
government receivables.
Borrower to permit ELECTRO-   CA 3.03         No      Instead of a needed rate
GAZ to adjust electricity                             increase, the Government decided
tariffs based on revalued                             to decrease rates in January
assets and available tariff                           1988.
and cost reduction studies
Availability of foreign        CA 3.04        No      Foreign exchange was not made
exchange                                              available to settle unpaid
contracts following exhaustion
of the IDA Credit.
Borrower ensures that all      CA 3.05        Par-    ELECTROGAZ still has little
appointments to the staff                     tial    effective role in the
of ELECTROGAZ be approved                             recruitment of its personnel who
by its Personnel Manager                              are civil servants.
Further investment in          CA 3.06        No      ELECTROGAZ continued to receive
ELECTROGAZ by the Borrower                            subsidies from the Government's
shall be in the form of                               investment budget throughout the
loans rather than                                     project execution period.
contributions to capital
Employment of consultants      PA 2.02        Par-    However, the consulting
for project supervision.                      tial    engineer's contract was allowed
to expire prematurely before the
end of the project when
commissioning was in progress
and serious issues had arisen.
Goods and services to be       PA 2.04(b)    Yes      Although ELECTROGAZ reported
used for project purposes                             that it had used some spares
only.                                                 for system expansion instead of
maintenance.
Performance of obligations    PA 2.06         No      Due to accumulation of
under the Subsidiary Loan                             Government receivables,
Agreement                                             ELECTROGAZ has not always been
able to meet its debt service
obligations.
Exchange of views with IDA    PA 2.07         Par-    However, despite IDA
on progress of the project                    tial    recommendation to the contrary,
as well as on conditions                              and without informing IDA,
which interfere with its                              rehabilitation work on the
purpose.                                              Ntaruka units was accepted even
though performance by the
contractor was unsatisfactory.



-25 -
(i) Employment of a person-   PA 2.08          Par-    A personnel director was
nel manager and an adviser                     tial    appointed.  A part-time adviser
to the general manager;                                 rather than full-time adviser to
preparation of a statement                              one director was appointed; a
of personnel policies and                               draft statement was completed in
procedures;                                             1985.
(ii) employment of a
planning director and an
expert in electrical                           Par-    Both were named with some delay.
engineering; preparation of                    tial    The decision was taken to forego
a 5-year investment plan                                the 5-year study and prepare a
and a plan of action for                                long-term Master Plan;  work on
reduction of electrical                                 the Plan began in 1991.
energy losses by June 30,                               Measures were taken to reduce
1985.                                                   both non-technical and technical
losses, but a formal plan of
action was not completed.
Appointment of two training   PA 2.09          Par-    The training officers and one
officers and employment of                     tial    agent were employed, but no
two training experts who                                formal training plan was
would establish a training                              submitted to IDA.
plan for electricity
operations by June 30,
1985.
ELECTROGAZ to establish         PA 3.07        Yes      Guidelines were issued in 1986.
guidelines for procurement
and for inventory
management by March 31,
1985.
Beginning in FY85,              PA 4.01(b)    No
ELECTROGAZ to prepare
separate accounts for its
water, gas and electricity
operations.
Audit accounts and furnish    PA 4.02          Yes      Accounts were audited annually
them to IDA                                             by Price-Waterhouse, but often
submitted with several months'
delay.
Debt service requirement of   PA 4.03          Yes
1.5
ELECTROGAZ to generate          PA 4.04        No       1984 was the only year in which
funds from internal sources                             the target was achieved.
of at least 25% of its
annual capital expenditure
program averaged over three
years; tariffs to be
reviewed June 30 in each
year to ensure their
adequacy in meeting
aforementioned
contribution.
Beginning in 1986,              PA 4.05        No       ELECTROGAZ's tariffs remained
ELECTROGAZ to fix average                               unchanged until January 1988
tariffs for electricity at                              when the Goverrnment decided to
levels determined on the                                decrease rates by 14% in spite
basis of revalued assets                                of analysis showing the need for
and available tariff and                                increase.
cost-reduction studies.



- 26 -
Receivables not to exceed      PA 4.06(a)    No       ELECTROGAZ was not able to meet
four months' billings at                              this condition owing to a
end of 1984 and three                                 chronic problem of Government
months' billings at the end                           receivables for works and
of 1985.                                              electricity and water
consumption.
For contracted works and       PA 4.06(b)    Par-    ELECTROGAZ did implement a
connections, ELECTROGAZ to                    tial    special payment plan, but only
require at least 60%                                  on a limited basis.
advance payment and balance
upon completion, or for low
income customers, 30% in
advance and the remainder
over a period not exceeding
12 months.
Annual revaluation of          PA 4.07        No
assets commencing in 1984.
Preparation by March 31,       PA 4.08(a)    Par-    A formal plan was never
1985 of a detailed plan for                   tial    submitted to the Bank although
the reduction of operating                            acceptable actions to reduce
costs and exchange of views                           personnel, vehicle and materials
with IDA                                              expenditures were put into
effect in 1985; results were
limited.
Freeze on hiring non-          PA 4.08(b)    No       Although ELECTROGAZ's overall
professional staff until                              permanent staff declined, hiring
cost reduction plan in                                of excessive temporary labor
effect                                                continued.
Consultation with IDA prior   PA 4.08(c)    Yes       No investments of this size were
to undertaking any capital                            undertaken in the power sector
investment above US$10                                during the project
million.                                              implementation period.



- 27 -
8.    Use of Bank Resources
Staffweeks
Through Appraisal                                                 40.8
Appraisal through Board approval                                    8.4
Supervision                                                       45.7
Total                                                             99.1
9. Mission Data
Stage of            Month/   Number of       Days     SpecialIzation    Performance           Types of
Project Cycle          Year      Persons    In Field   Represented !/  Rating Status k/          Problem c/
Throuch Appraisal
Pro-appraisal          7.83         2            S         F, E
Appraisal             10.83         a           12         F, E, T(C)/
Appraisal throuch Board
Post-appraisal I      12.83         2             1         F, E
Post appraisal II /  3.84           1             a         F
Board through effectiveness
SPN g/                  7.84           2            1        F, E                                      F; G
Supervision
SPN 1                7-8.86            3            4        D, E, F              2                   PU, D
SPN 2                   1.86           2            7        E, F                 2                   PM, D
SPN 3                  10.88           2             6       E, F                  a              PF, PM, D
SPN 4                 10.87            1            6        F                    3           E, PF, PU, D
SPN 6              11-12.87            2           10        F, E(C)              a        F, E, PF, PM, 0
SPN 6                6-8.88            3           17        F, Ec, E(C)          a        F, E, PF, PM, D
SPN/PCR f/             2.89            2            7        F, E(C)               3          E, Pf, PM, D
SPN/PCR update g/       1.89           2            3        F, E(C)               3          E, PF, PM, D
a/ 0 = division chief; E = engineer; Ec a economist; F = financial analyst; T training specialist;
(C) = consultant
9 From forms 590: 2 = moderate problems; 8 = severe problems
/ D = development impact; E = engineering; F = financial; C = government interference with management;
F a financial problems; PF = funds available for project execution; PM = project management;
J The training specialist was only 7 days in the field
p/ No report on file. Data from terms of reference.
f Combined with identification of proposed energy project. No formal rating of problems, but no
Improvement.
g/ No form 690.



- 28 -                                       Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
Evolution of Faults in the Transmission Network
Rwanda - 11 0 kV and 70 kV - Number and duration of
system faults
400.
350
300
250
Number              Emb
or hours                                                   ur
1 5 0
50-
0-
1983 19841985 19861987 19881989
year
Fia. I Evolution of faults on the H.V. network.
The length of the network was unchanged
Rwanda - 11 0 kV and 70 kV - average fault
duration
40
35-
minutes 20       .
Io-jM~ ~~
5. l
0
1983198419851986198719881989
year
Fic 2. Evolution of the averaae duratiorn of faults on the H.V.
network



- 29 -                                        Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
Rwanda - 30 kV and 15 kV - number and duration of system
faults
700
600_
500-
Number 400-                                             hours
or hours 300                                             number
200                                4 -
100
198319841985 19861987 19881989
year
Fio. 3 Evolution of faults on the M.V. network
During 1983-1989, network length increased
from 507.5 to 957.5 km.
Rwanda - 30 kV and 15 kV - average fault duration, and duration
per km
25
20
1s                                                minutes/fault
minutes                                                   I3        I  F
minutes 10                                     M; Eminutes/km
0*
1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989
year
Fic 4 Evolution of the averaae duration of faults. and of fault
duration ner km of line, on the M.V. network



Annex 2
- 30 -                               Page 1 of 4
ETABLISSEMENT PUBLIC DE PRODUCTION DE TRANSPORT ET DE
DISTRIBUTION D'ELECTRICITE, D'EAU ET DE GAZ
Balance Sheet as of December 31: Audited 1983, 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988
(RwF Millions)
1983         1984         1985          1986         1987         1988
-ASSETS
get Fixed Assets           8  ,2        9,154        10,015        9,847         9,602       13,026
lork in Progress             999        1,273         2,497        4,813         6,657        3,188
Intangible                    54             -          176          164           207          636
4edium and L/T claims          -             -           48            57           55           54
)ther                                       10           27             -           93          100
Investments in Company         -             -           10           95            95          157
3hares
Iurrent Assets
lash and Bank Deposit        121           158          262          402           326          392
kccounts Receivable        1,399        1,317         1,165          812         1,461        1,310
Enventory                    435           505          654          853           823          904
?ersonnel Advances            30            41           20             -            4           13
Mtate                          -             -            3             6           68          465
)repaid Expenses               -             -           58           65            69           49
)ther                         17            14            3            7             -            4
!otal Current Assets       2,002        2,035         1,511        2,146        2,751         3,137
?otal Assets              11.157       12.472       14,938        17,122       19.460        20,298
.IABILITIES
:quity
Capital                   430           430          430          430           430          430
Govt.Subsidy for Invest.  -               -        3,858        3,986         4,014        4,088



Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
1983         1984         1985         1986         1987         1988
Provision for renewal
of 3rd Party financed          -            -          185          313          583          722
assets
Retained Earnings            197          148          462          441          512          653
Asset Renewal Reserve        266          440          267          267          267           267
Revaluation Reserve           82          324        1,322        1,322        1,322        1,322
Other Reserves                 -            -           81           81           81            81
Equipment Subsidy          7,2e9        7,427        2,235        2,118        2,027        1,931
Total Equity               8,264        8,769        8,841        8,958        9,236        9,495
Long-Term Debt             1,777        2,818        4,890        7,046        8,582        8,577
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable             320          282          477          354          423          464
State                        176          393          486          288          759        1,293
Other S/T Debt               280          104           87          152          174           233
Advances for Works           255            -            -          141           63             -
Consumer Deposits             83          106          144          171          210          226
Misc. Provisions               1            -           13           12            12           li
Total Current              1,115          885        1,207        1,118        1,641        2,226
Liabilities
Total Liabilities         11,157       12,472       14.938       17,122       19.460       20.298
Current Ratio             1.8          2.3          1.3          1.9          1.7          1.4
Receivables (months)    12.7           10.5         8.5          5.7          10.7         9.7
Debt: Equity              18/82        24/76        36/64        44/56        48/52        47/53



Annex 2
32                                    Page 3 of 4
ETABLISSEMENT PUBTIC DE PRODUCTION DE TRANSPORT ET DE
DISTRIBUTION D'ELECTRICITE, D'EAU ET DE GAZ
Income Statement as of Decewber 31: Audited 1983, 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988
(RwF Millions)
1983         1984         1985         1986         1987         1988
REVENUES
ales                      1,173        1,225        1,325        1,404        1,459        1,409
=nnections                  118          253          299          270          146          193
-ter Charges                 13           15            -            -            -            -
Lher                         23           22          202          163          246          186
Lher Non-operating Income 321            139          104          492          520          524
umcrtization of External       -            -          528          173          183          197
;ubsidies
Total Revenues      1.544         1,654       2,458         2.502        2,554        2,509
OPERATING EXPENSES
Salaries                      95          282          389          453          538          424
Materials and Services       776          509          646          998          922           712
consumed
Transportation                 3           21           60           26             1            -
Depreciation                 385          540          573          613          647          815
-ovision for debt and
iventory write off            -            -         425            29           48           71
other                          -           40          152          271          194          226
Total Expenses             1,259        1,S2        2.245        2,390        2.350        2.248
operating Income             389          262          213          112          204           261
Interest Charges             104          114           96          132          133          120
Net Income                   285          148          117         (20)          (71)          141
erating Ratio           1.03         0.89         0.91         1.30         1.14         1.09
perating Ratio (excl.
epreciation)             0.71         0.54         0.60         0.80         0.79         0.64
Rate of return (%)        5.0          3.0          2.2          1.1          1.6          2.0



Annex 2
33                                  P Tage4 of 4
ETABLISSEMENT PUBLIC DE PRODUCTION DE TRANSPORT ET DE
DISTRIBUTION D'ELECTRICITE, D'EAU ET DE GAZ
Sources and Applications of Funds: Audited 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988
(RwF Millions)
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------------__----------
1983        1984        1985        1986        1987        1988
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Generated from Operations N.A.
Operating Income                       262         213          112         204         261
Depreciation                           540         573         613          647         815
Amortization of Equipment
Subsidies                                -           -        (139)       (183)       (197)
Total                              802         786         586          668         879
Investment Subsidy                     138           -         150           79         122
Third-Party Financing of                 -         186         127          311         192
Assets
Other                                    -       1,313           3            7          14
Loans                                1,185       2,037       2,213        1,628         330
Total Sources                  2.125       4.322       3.079        2,623       1,537
APPLICATIONS OF
FUNDS
Construction/Renewal                 1,580       2,834       2,724       2,290        1,201
Reserves                                24         173           -            -           -
Debt Service
Repayment                        144          63          59          92          334
Interest                         114          96         132         133          120
Other                                    -       1,334         155           97          80
Change in Working Capital              263       (178)          68           81       (198)
Total Applications             2.125       4.322       3.079       2.693        1.537
Debt Service coverage               2.7         4.6         1.9          2.2         1.4
Net Cash Contr. to                  51%         17%         22%          -47%        -50%
Construct.



