Document of
The World Bank                           7.  
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3822-RW
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$9.O MILLION
TO THE
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FOR A
POWER PROJECT
May 23, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Since September 1983)
US$1.00 = Rwandese franc (RwF) 97.00
RwF 100  =  US$1.03
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 - I)ecember 31
Electrogaz: January 1 - I)ecember 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB       -  African Development Bank
BUNEP      -  Bureau National d'Etudes de ProJets (National Studies Bureau,
Rwanda)
CCCE       -  Caisse Centrale de Coopgration Economique (French Aid Agency)
Electrogaz -  Etablissement Public de Production, de Transport et de
Distribution d'Eau, d'Electricit6 et de Gaz (Public Company
for Production and Distribution of Electricity, Water and
Gas, Rwanda)
FAC        -  Fonds d'Aide et de Coopgration (French Aid Agency)
Government -  Government of Rwanda
KfW        -  Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau (Aid Agency, Federal Republic
of Germany)
MIRENA     -  Ministry of Natural Resources, Rwanda
MPWE       -  Ministry of Public Works and Energy, Rwanda
ONATOUR    -  Office National de la Tourbe (National Peat Office, Rwanda)
PW         -  Price Waterhouse
SAUR           Societe d'Amenagement Urbain et Rural (French Water Utility)
UNDP       -  United Nations Development Program
MEASUREMENT EQUIVALENTS
GWh         gigawatt hour               -   1,000,000 kilowatt hours
kcal        kilocalorie                 -   3.97 British thermal units
kgoe        kilograms of oil equivalent
kV          kilovolt                    -   1,000 volts
kVA         kilovolt ampere             -   1,000 volt amperes
kW          kilowatt                    -   1,000 watts
kWh         kilowatt hours              -   1,000 watt hours
IWh         megawatt hour               -   1,000 kilowatt hours
MW          megawatt                    -   1,000 kilowatts
toe         ton of oil equivalent       -   10,500,000 kilocalories
ton         metric ton                  -   1.1 US tons



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RWANDA
POWER PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           Rwandese Republic
Beneficiary:        Electrogaz
Amount:              SDRs 8.5 million (US$9.0 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard
Relending Terms:   Government would onlend the entire amount of the IDA
credit to Electrogaz for a period of twenty years,
including five years of grace, and with an interest rate
equal to that in effect for Bank loans on the date of
project approval by the Board. Electrogaz would assume
the foreign exchange risk.
Co-lenders:         Caisse Centrale de Coop6ration Economique (CCCE) has
expressed the intention of contributing the equivalent
of US$9.2 million to the project.
Project                (i)  Objectives and Benefits:  The project would com-
Description:              plement the recently approved Ruzizi II regional
hydroelectric project by enabling Rwanda to take
maximum advantage of the increased output from
the new facilities. Specifically, the Project
would: (a) provide improved reliability of pro-
duction, transmission and distribution of elec-
trical energy; (b) serve additional domestic
consumers; (c) help sustain the economic growth
of the industrial and commercial sectors; and
(d) strengthen Electrogaz in planning, personnel
management, and its operation and maintenance
functions.
(ii)  Components:  The project would provide for:
(a) the rehabilitation of the Ntaruka generating
station and of the transmission network;
(b)  the extension of the transmission network;
and
(c) technical assistance to Electrogaz;
training; and consulting engineering
services.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
(iii) Risks: The physical risk associated with the
rehabilitation components of the project would be
small because there wouild be little civil work.
The main risk would be institutional, as Electro-
gaz is a weak organiza1tion and may have difficulty
in administering the proposed project. However,
this risk would be minimized by use of competent
consultants to assist Electrogaz in managing the
project.
Estimated Costs 1/:
Local         Foreign           Total
(US$ millions equivalent)
Electricity
Ntaruka Powerhouse                   0.2             2.0             2.2
Rehabilitation of Trans-
mission System                     0.5             5.0             5.5
New Transmission Lines               0.2             0.9             1.1
Maintenance & Spare Parts            0.1             2.0             2.1
Vehicles                              -              0.8             0.8
Technical Assistance                 0.2             1.0             1.2
Consulting Engineering               0.2             1.2             1.4 2/
Base Cost (Dec. 31,'83)            1.4            12.9            14.3
Contingencies
Physical                             0.3             1.7             2.0
Price                                0.4             2.6             3.0
Total Project Cost                 2.1            17.2            19.3
Interest During Construction (IDC)  4.2               -               4.2
Total Financing Required           6.3            17.2           23.5
Financing Plan:
IDA                                                  9.0             9.0
CCCE                                 1.0             8.2             9.2
Electrogaz                           1.1              -              1.1
Government (IDC)                     4.2              _              4.2
Total                              6.3            17.2            23.5
I/  Duties and taxes would not be levied on the project.
2/ Includes US$1,000,000 from the Prclject Preparation Facility to finance
engineering studies.



(iii)
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
(US$ millions equivalent)
1985    1986    1987    1988
Annual:                      2.0     4.0      2.0      1.0
Cumulative:                  2.0     6.0      8.0      9.0
Appraisal Report:  No. 4961-RW of May 3, 1984.
Economic Rate of Return: The overall rate of return is 16 percent.
Map: IBRD 17959.



I



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FOR A POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommeindation on a proposed
development credit to the Rwandese Republic for the equivalent of SDRs
8.5 million (US$9.0 million) on standard IDA terms, to help finance a Power
Project.  Government would onlend the IDA credit to '.lectrogaz for a period
of twenty years, including five years of grace, and with an interest rate
equal to that in effect for Bank users on the date of Board approval of the
proposed project.   Co-financing for the project in the amount of US$9.2
million equivalent would be provided by the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique (CCCE) of France. The CCCE loan would be for fifteen years with
a five year grace period, and would bear an interest rate of 5 percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 4059-RW) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on May 20, 1983 which discussed economic deve-
lopments  in Rwanda until  that date.   These developments,  updated when
possible, are summarized below. Country data are provided in Annex I.
3.         Rwanda  is a small landlocked  country,  surrounded  by Uganda,
Tanzania  Burundi and Zaire.  It has the third highest population density
of low income countries, at 210 persons/km2 (following Bangladesh and Sri
Lanka), and its GNP per capita is among the lowest in the world, estimated
at about US$240 in 1982.   Rwanda's population of 5.5 million in 1982 is
predominantly rural (with only 4.5 percent in urban areas), and lives in
small individual farms scattered over hilly terrain.  The balance between
food production and population is precarious, as potentially arable land is
scarce, yields of most foodcrops have been stagnant, and population is
expanding at an estimated 3.6 percent annually.  Twice recently (1974 and
1980),  Rwanda  had  to  resort  to  emergency  food  imports.    Agriculture
(coffee, tea, pyrethrum, cinchona) provides most of the country's foreign
exchange earnings from merchandise exports.   Coffee is by far the most
important source (56 percent) followed by mining products (16 percent),
A         mainly cassiterite and wolfram.  Rwanda's manufacturing base is narrow, and
growth of modern manufacturing is limited by the small size of the market
and by the lack of raw materials, marketing facilities, entrepreneurial
*         skills and skilled manpower.   The country, consequently,  imports capital
goods, steel, petroleum products, cement and other construction materials,
and virtually every modern consumer product.   Its merchandise  trade is
hampered by high transportation costs and dependence on neighboring
countries for access to the seaports at Mombasa and Dar es Salaam.
4.      A quantitative assessment of Rwanda's economic performance can only
be tentative, as the national accounts estimates are based upon data of



-2-
dubious reliability.  These estimates suggest that during the period 1977-
82 the rate of growth of real GDP averaged about 5 percent per annum, on
the strength of reasonably good performance boy most sectors, except those
engaged in production for export.   The recent growth of the agricultural
sector can be explained, to a significant extent, by good weather condi-
tions, increased world coffee prices in the late 1970s, improvement of the
road network, and the rapid growth of urban and project-induced demand.
Official production data indicate that foodcrop output (36 percent of GDP)
increased at an average annual rate of about 4 percent in the period 1977-
82, but this estimate may prove to be overstated.   In any event, it is the
judgment of informed observers that: the balance between food production and
population remains precarious, as food production is vulnerable to weather
conditions  and population is increasing rapidly.   With the exception of
tea, the production of export crops was disappointing during 1978-82.
Largely influenced by weather, and in spite of substantial increases in
1978 and 1981, coffee production tended to stagnate.    Absolute declines
were recorded for the country's two other export crops, pyrethrum and
cinchona.   After having expanded at an average  rate of 11 percent per
annum, tea production also declined in 1982, and the industry has exper-
ienced difficulties in obtaining sufficient quantities of green leaves to
process for export (due to competition from other crops and lack of
fertilizers).
5.         Mining production also declined during  1977-82,  at an average
annual rate of 4 percent.  This poor performance has been a consequence of
various factors, among them management problems at SOMIRWA (the mining
company), equipment obsolescence, and substantial increases in production
costs (mainly the wage bill) while world market. prices have fallen and the
Rwandese franc (linked until September 1983 to the United States dollar)
had appreciated vis-a-vis the country's maLjor trading partners (para. 11).
6.        Manufacturing growth was, on average, 5 percent during 1977-82,
largely reflecting agricultural performance as an estimated three-quarters
of manufacturing output consists of the transformation of agricultural pro-
ducts, mainly banana and sorghum, into beer, aLnd agro-industries (coffee,
tea, sugar).  Modern manufacturing has been limited to import substitution
industries such as shoes, textiles, soap, plastic utensils, corrugated iron
sheets, all  of which  rely on imported  raw materials.   A cement  plant
located in Cyangugu (southwest Rwanda) is due to start operations in the
next year and is expected to make Rwanda self-sufficient in cement.
7.        Tertiary sector activities experienced a fairly rapid expansion
during 1977-82.  Commerce and transportation increased at an average annual
rate of 6 percent reflecting increases in marketed foodcrop production,
manufacturing output, and imports (especia!lly of consumer and intermediate
goods). Traffic on Rwandese roads is estimated to have expanded at about 7
percent per annum, the fleet of pick-ups doubled during 1979-82, and
imports of transport equipment increased at: nearly 9 percent in real terms,
albeit all from a very small base.
8.       TraditLonally, the Government has pursued prudent fiscal policies.
A principal indicator of this was the budget surpluses incurred during
1977-81  (on average,  2.5 percent  of GDP).   The Government's ability to



-3-
sustain these surpluses was aided by favorable terms of trade, which served
to raise export duties (particularly in 1977-79, following the rise in
coffee prices) and import duties (insofar as Rwanda's exports financed a
relatively large volume of imports, upon which the revenue structure is
highly  depe'-ent).    Also,  substantial  capital  inflows  facilitated  the
growth in imports,  thereby adding  to government  revenues.   In 1977-81,
nearly 50 percent of central government revenues (which averaged 10 percent
of GDP) came from import and export taxes, with coffee exports alone
contributing  'l percent;  taxes on beverages,  and on income and property
accounted for most of the remainder.  Expenditures were distributed mainly
among administrative services (25 percent), education (26 percent), and
defense (20 percent).   Expenditures on agriculture and public works have
expanded faster than total expenditures in recent years.
9.        The fiscal situation, however, has deteriorated since 1981.  In
contrast to the preceding years, increases in revenue have fallen short of
increases  in expenditure.   Budgetary receipts from coffee export duties
have stagnated at lower levels than those of previous years as a result of
declining coffee prices and in spite of higher export volumes. At the same
time, there has been a significant expansion in government expenditures
reflecting, inter alia, the impact of the general wage increase granted in
September 1980, the addition of a new Ministry of Higher Education, and
implementation of the education reform. In an effort to expand the revenue
base and increase revenue, the Government introduced a new business tax in
1981 which, however, has not yielded sufficient revenues to compensate for
the decline in revenue from coffee. As a result of these developments, the
overall budgetary balance has shifted from a surplus of RwF 1.0 billion in
1980 (equivalent to 1 percent of GDP) to deficits of RwF 2.2 billion and
RwF 3.0 billion in 1981 and 1982, respectively.   In an attempt to arrest
the fiscal deterioration, the Government increased import tariffs in
January 1982 and taxes on beer and cigarettes, in January 1983.
10.      The Government has been traditionally conservative in its monetary
and credit policies. Inflationary pressures have arisen mainly from supply
shortages caused by frequent disruptions of supply routes through neigh-
boring countries, increased international transport costs, and increased
prices of imports and domestic foodstuffs. Inflation averaged 10.6 percent
per annum during 1977-82; it peaked at 15.8 percent in 1979, primarily as a
result of the closing of the Uganda border, but also reflecting higher
transport costs following the 1979-80 oil price rise.   In 1983, inflation
4         was down to 6.5 percent, as trade flows through Uganda were normal and the
rate of increase of import prices decelerated.
11.      Rwanda's increased export earnings (until 1980) and large inflows
of foreign grants and loans enabled the country, during 1977-81, to in-
crease imports substantially and to build up international reserves.   In
real terms, imports of goods and non-factor services expanded at an average
annual rate of 5 percent and averaged 27 percent of GDP. At the same time,
Rwanda's  gross  international  reserves  reached,  at  end-1981,  an amount
equivalent to nearly seven months of estimated 1982 imports of goods and
non-factor  services.    Since  1982,  however,  Rwanda  has  been  suffering
reserve losses as coffee export receipts have remained at about the same



- 4 -
(depressed) levels of 1980-81, foreign grants and loans have declined,
while imports have continued to expand rapidly.   In an attempt to arrest
the deterioration of the balance of payments and minimize the future impact
of exchange rate variability among the major currencies on the external
current account, the Government delinked the Rwandese franc from the United
States dollar in September, 1983 and pegged it instead to the SDR, at the
rate of RwF 102.71 = 1 SDR.  This was equivalent to a devaluation of the
Rwandese franc vis-a-vis the United States dollar of 5-6 percent.   Such a
measure should contribute to stemming the loss in reserves which by
October, 1983, were down to the equivalent of four months of projected 1984
imports of goods and non-factor services.
12.        Rwanda's Third Development Plan, like its predecessor,  remains
essentially a qualitative document: which prcvides a broad statement of
national development priorities 1/ but lacks a. multi-year sectoral invest-
ment program, key input and output targets (in physical as well as finan-
cial terms), and an agenda of policy and institutional reforms for imple-
menting the overall strategy.   Other important weaknesses of the planning
process are:   the absence of a mechanism for periodically assessing the
changing outlook regarding resource avai:Labilities and the feasibility of
the projected levels of investment and the weak linkage between the
planning and budgetary processes.   In consequence of these deficiencies,
Rwanda's plans have not served as effective instruments of economic manage-
ment. Nevertheless, the Government has made serious efforts to pursue the
Plan's objectives.   The limited success of these efforts has been largely
due to the country's structural constraints (among them the critical popu-
lation problem), institutional weaknesses (stemming largely from lack of
skilled personnel), and insufficienczy of domestic financial resources. At
the same time, the lack of skilled personnel, fragmentation of institu-
tional responsibilities, and poor coordination among concerned agencies
have limited the country's capacity to absorb external resources.
13.      The Government has taken steps to address these problems.  Of par-
ticular importance have been actions concerned with the extremely rapid
population growth,  and the lack of education and training.   In 1980 it
established the National Population Office (ONAPO) to plan, coordinate, and
monitor all population activities.   ONAT'O has  started  to sensitize  the
population about the implications of excessive demographic pressure on the
country's limited resources, a few pilot family planning programs have been
set up, and a nationwide fertility survey, now completed, is expected to
provide valuable information on the potential demand for family planning.
Obviously, the impact of these measures will only be felt in the long-run.
Meanwhile, the population, growing at 3.6 percent annually, is expected to
double by the year 2000.  To address the problem of lack of education and
trainiing,  the Government  introduced  an  educaition  reform in  1979 whose
objectives are appropriate to the country's needs, but whose implementation
1/ As in the Second Plan, five of the six main goals of the Third Plan
relate to the satisfaction of basic needs:   (i) food self-sufficiency;
(ii) job creation, to ensure an adequate famlly income; (iii) education
and training; (iv) improvement of basic health services; and (v)
provision of minimum standard housing.



has been hampered by financial constraints and the lack of teachers.   In
order to facilitate more coherent economic management, the Government was
reorganized on January 6, 1984.  The reorganization included combining the
Ministry of the Economy and Commerce with the Ministry of Finance.
14.     As mentioned earlier, external aid (of US$25-30 per capita) was an
important catalyst to the country's favorable economic performance during
1977-81.    This  aid  has  been  mainly  for  infrastructure  and  technical
assistance, most of which (58 percent) has benefitted agriculture, educa-
tion, and health care.   These three sectors,  together with transport and
communications, received nearly 65 percent of the aid extended to Rwanda in
1982, an emphasis which is in line with the country's objectives and prio-
rities.   The principal sources of foreign assistance  and their average
share during 1977-82 were Belgium (27 percent), the European Development
Fund (14 percent), the Federal Republic of Germany (8 percent), IDA (7 per-
cent), and France (6 percent). Rwanda has carried out Article IV consulta-
tions with the IMF regularly, but it has not requested IMF financial
assistance.
15.     Economic management in recent years has been prudent, as evidenced
by relatively low inflation rates, low debt service ratio, and avoidance of
projects of dubious economic justification.   This was undoubtedly faci-
litated by substantial aid inflows and favorable terms of trade in the
early part of the period.  The terms of trade have deteriorated since 1980
and are projected to continue to deteriorate during the '80s.  It is thus
evident that the country's need for external assistance will increase sub-
stantially.    Its  external  debt  is still manageable.   At end-1982,  the
medium- and long-term external debt outstanding (disbursed only) amounted
to US$189.3 million equivalent, or 13 percent of GDP, and the debt service
ratio was equivalent to only 2.8 percent of exports of goods and non-factor
services.   Hence,  there remains scope for further borrowing.   However,
given the poverty of the country, its overwhelming constraints and vulnera-
bility, and its unfavorable medium-term prospects, external funds should
continue to be provided in the form of grants or loans at highly conces-
sionary terms, and include a high proportion of local cost financing and
non-project assistance.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RWANDA
e
16.        Bank Group assistance started in 1970 and initially focused on
the improvement of the road network and the strengthening of agriculture
production.    Rwanda  has  received  twenty  IDA  credits  totalling  US$208
million, of which five (totalling US$69.0 million) were for roads, seven
(US$80.6   million) for agriculture, three (US$16.2 million) for DFC pro-
jects, two (US$18.0 million reduced to US$16.4 million) for education, one
(US$7.5 million) for telecommunications, one (US$5.0 million) for technical
assistance, and one (US$13.0 million) for water supply. There have been no
Bank loans.   An IFC loan of US$535,000 for a tea factory was signed in
1976; a second IFC loan of US$226,000 and contingent equity commitment of
up to US$60,000 to expand the tea factory were signed in September 1980.



-6-
Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and  IFC investments
as of March 31, 1984.
17.       A US$13.0 million credit for a Water Supply Project (1345-RW) for
Electrogaz fpara. 30) became effective February 14, 1984.   The project is
on schedule  and bidding activities have proceeded smoothly.   A US$15.0
million credit, which represents Rwanda's share of the Ruzizi II regional
hydroelectric project benefitting Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire, was signed on
April 4, 1984.
18.           In fiscal years  1981-83, disbursements  for Rwanda totalled
US$3207 million compared to new commitments of US$107.2 million.   In the
same period, the average annual disbursement rate (ratio of change in dis-
bursements to undisbursed balanee) was 20 percent; this is about average
for countries of the Eastern Africa Region. While disbursement performance
in general is satisfactory, notable difficulties have arisen in the case of
the First Education Project.  The lack of acceptable record keeping caused
significant delays in the processing of disbursement  requests.   However,
fol'Lowing a UNESCO-assisted final inspection and evaluation mission for the
workshops financed under the project, disbursements resumed.
19.          One of the major constrainits to Rwanda's development is the
shortage of technical/managerial capacLty.   This affects all sectors and
inhibits  project  preparation  and  implementation.    Intensive  technical
assistance and on-the-job training of- Rwandese staff are therefore a
salient feature of the Bank's program ior Rwanda, either under individual
projects in the various sectors or through the Technical Assistance Project
(Credit 1214-RW declared effective November 22, 1982) which is promoting
inter-ministerial coordination in project preparation and monitoring, and
aims  at  strengthening  the  Ministry  cf  Planning.    A  second  technical
assistance project is envisaged to promote better coordination in economic
policy-making and to help strengthen in particular the recently reorganized
Ministry of Finance and Economy.
20.          The primary emphasis of Bank operations will remain on rural
development, the main objective being to increase food production as well
as export crops, while maintaining soil fertility.   A major emphasis will
also be placed on the development of human resources, focusing on popula-
tion planning and support to basic education and skills training to improve
agricultural productivity, provide skilled manpower, and influence atti-
tudes on the population issue.   Further investment is also justified for
infrastructure  and,  in  particular,  for  roads  to  reduce  the  country's
isolation and provide incentives to furlher intensification of agriculture
as well as increased specialization and diversification through better
marketing.    Another  area  requiring  our  special  attention  is energy to
lessen the demand for fuel imports and mitigate their impact on the balance
of payments (see para. 34).



- 7 -
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Background
21.        Of Rwanda's 26,300 km2 of land area, about 6 percent is covered
by trees,  two-thirds  of which are natural  forests.   These forests are
Rwanda's principal energy resource, but they are being depleted for fire-
&        wood and its product, charcoal, at the rate of 2,000 hectares a year.  Peat
is available in some areas, and experiments in production continue, but
peat  is unlikely to become a major fuel even in the medium term.   The
potential for development of hydroelectric power exists but development is
costly due to sites having low capacity and being widely scattered. Future
least cost development could be related to the Rusumo Falls site in the
Kagera Basin and sites on the Ruzizi River on  scales that would require
regional cooperation (for which the precedent is the Ruzizi II project--
para. 17).  There is no evidence of the presence of oil or coal in Rwanda,
but there is a unique potential source of methane gas in the deep waters of
Lake Kivu estimated  to amount to about 60 million toe.   A study of the
feasibility of doubling the current gas production of 6,000 m3 of gas with
an 80 percent methane content has been completed by Rwanda's power, gas and
water utility,  Electrogaz.   While the potential gas  resources are huge
relative  to any conceivable  gas demands  in the region,  little is known
about the rate at which the gas could be safely extracted at reasonable
cost without  posing unacceptable  environmental  and safety risks.   Geo-
thermal potential has been established around Lake Kivu but pending results
of ongoing studies, Rwanda's other energy resources seem more promising.
Sector Issues
22.          In June, 1981, a UNDP/World Bank Energy Assessment mission 2/
identified Rwanda's most pressing energy problems to be:   (i) the rapTd
depletion of forestry resources and the fact that reforestation efforts
compete for land with food and export crop production; (ii) the high cost
of oil imports, given Rwanda's land-locked position, and the lack of
security of supply; and (iii) institutional weaknesses in the electric
power subsector, the need to develop overall sector planning, and elec-
tricity tariffs. The Rwandese Bureau National d'Etudes de Projets (BUNEP)
and the Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne (EPFL) made a complete
study of electricity supply in Rwanda, published in May 1983, which
included an overview of the energy sector.   The study's findings coincide
with those of the UNDP/World Bank assessment report in most areas.   Key
recommendations made by the UNDP/World Bank assessment to alleviate these
problems were: (i) to increase and reorient forestry extension work to
assist the rural population in woodlot preparation and in fuel conserva-
tion;  (ii) to reduce woodfuel demand by introducing more efficient cook-
stoves and charcoal  kilns;  (iii) to evaluate the prospects for increased
2/ Rwanda: Issues and Options in the Energy Sector, June 1982. Report of
the Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Assessment Program.



- 8 -
peat production;   (iv) to modify oil import arrangements by purchasing oil
on international markets and bringing it in across Tanzania once the
Rusumo-Isaka road was paved (para. 27); (v) to establish a strong planning
unit within Electrogaz; and (vi) to develop the Lake Kivu methane resource
in stages, and to monitor the present operations with a view to obtaining
an appropriate data base for the design of possible future projects.
Energy Consumption
23.          Traditional sources of energy ('iomass fuels--wood,  charcoal,                 l
crop and animal residues and, to a minor extent, peat) provide about 94
percent of the total energy consumed in the country.   Petroleum products
account for about 4.5 percent  and electricity about 1.5 percent.   Total
consumption of wood fuel in rural areas is estimated at 5 million m3
annually.   About 108,000 m3 of wood per annum in the form of charcoal are
used as the principal cooking fuel in Kigali, and about 29,000 i3 are used
as firewood.  Prices of charcoal and firewoodl have increased significantly
in the last few years due to transportation, as trees are cut further and
further from population centers.
Traditional Energy
24.          The depletion of forestry resources and the accompanying high
prices of charcoal are critical issues which the Government and aid
agencies are making  efforts  to address.   The Directorate of Waters and
Forests under the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock is responsible for
the forestry sector in Rwanda and is taking steps to establish a Forestry
Code and a National Forestry Fund to finance small scale afforestation
programs  country-wide  and  to  improve  existing  plantations.    Various
countries  and  organizations  are  providing  assistance  in  the  forestry
sector, including Belgium, Germany, Switzerland, the African Development
Bank (AfDB), Fonds Europeen de Developpement (FED) and UNDP. IDA included
reforestation of about 500 ha in the Bugesera/Gisaka/Migongo and Mutara
rural development projects; one of the components in the Integrated
Forestry and Livestock Development Project (Credit 1039-RW) is the planting
of about 5,000 ha around Kigali and 3,000 ha Qear Butare with trees to be
used principally for fuelwood.
25.        Significant savings in fuelwood and charcoal could be made if the
efficiency of household cooking and charcoal production could be improved.
Progress in introducing more efficient cookstoves has been slow especially
in rural areas where cooking on open fires is the common practice.  Urban
charcoal stove programs have been relatively more successful in such
countries as Kenya and Upper Volta, and funds have now been made available
from the UNDP/Bank Energy Management Assistance Programme for preliminary
studies to prepare a charcoal stove program for Kigali, as well as a pro-
gram for improving the efficiency of charcoal production.   The Integrated
Forestry and Livestock Development Project includes a component for experi-
mental work on improved woodstoves and charcoa:L development in rural areas
(para. 34).



-9-
Commercial Energy
26.            Petroleum.   Gross Thmestfc consumption vf commercial energy
(mostly petroleum products) rose at an average annual rate of 9 percent
from 36,391 toe in 1979 to an estimated 47,580 toe in 1982, iJhile the oil
import bill for 1982 rose to US$49 million, an increase of 2C percent from
US$23 million in 1979.   Per  capita  consumption  is  still  quite low in
relation to other countries in the region, about 13 kgoe annually, and its
4          use  is  largely  for  motor  vehicles.    Nevertheless,  Rwanda's  import  of
petroleum products in 1981 amounted to about 10 percent of its imports and
absorbed about 21 percent of its export earnings.  To protect its economy
against interruptions in the trainsportacior. o: oil, t;wanda Las installed
additional oil storage tanks sufficient to store about 10 million liters,
or about two months' supply.   A loan is currently being negotiated with
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) for building facilities to
hold a further 11 million liters in Kigali and 4 million in Butare.
27.         Rwanda is entirely dependent on foreign sources for its supply
of petroleum products, which are imported by seven companies including
Petrorwanda, a mixed enterprise under Government control.   Since 1981, all
of the oil imported to Rwanda has been refined in Mombasa, transported by
pipeline to Nairobi, and loaded into tank trucks for a 1,500 kilometer
journey via Uganda with a resulting exorbitant cost of about US$100 per
barrel, including about US$37 for freight.   The feasibility of purchasing
oil on international markets and bringing it across Tanzania which,
according to the UNDP/World Bank report (para. 22), could save up to 20
percent on present costs, will be studied when the paving of the road
linking Rwanda with Tanzania, Rusomo-Isaka, is completed.
28.        The Power Sector.  Although electricity currently provides only
about 25 percent of the commercial energy in Rwanda, the development of
hydroelectric-based electricity supply is potentially an important alter-
native to the use of high cost petroleum products, whether for power
generation or for final consumers.   At present, only about 2 percent of
Rwanda's  population has access to electricity which is  supplied by the
Ntaruka (11.25 MW), Mukungwa (12 MW) and Gisenyi (1.12 MW) hydrostations,
and by Zaire's Ruzizi I hydrostation (28.2 MW). At present total installed
generating capacity in Rwanda is 27.4 MW of which 24.5 MW is hydropower and
the remainder diesel. Most of the equipment is old, failures are frequent,
*           and losses are high.  The Ruzizi II (26 MW) hydrostation (jointly owned and
operated by Rwanda, Burundi and Zaire and scheduled for 1988 commissioning)
will provide an annual potential supply of 50 GWh to Rwanda in the first 5
years, increasing to 65 GWh thereafter.   Typically, missions and tea fac-
tories have diesel generating units operating intermittently, with ranges
of 3 kW to 16 kW.  Transmission lines total about 250 kin, ranging from 110
kV to 6.6 kV.  The inadequate coverage and unreliability of the transmis-
sion network are at present among the main constraints on the development
of the power sector.   New transmission lines are under construction from
Ruhengeri to Gisenyi, financed by the Federal Republic of Germany, and
along Lake Kivu, financed by the Government of Switzerland.
29.       Power Demand.  Since 1975 the number of consumers of low voltage
electricity, principally domestic, grew at an average annual rate of 13



- 10 -
percent, with consumption growing from 12.4 Glh to 28.0 GWh in 1982.  Over
the same period, the demand for high voltage energy (industrial) rose at an
average annual rate of 9 percent, from 24.9 GWh to 45.5 GWh.  The number of
high voltage consumers rose from 79 to 113, an average annual rate of 5
percent.  The total demand for electricity during the past seven years thus
grew at an average annual rate of about 10 percent, while the number of new
consumers grew at about 12 percent.  A review of the historical demand for
electrical energy together with a study of the potential growth in the
variLous sectors of the economy, has led the Association to estimate that
the demand for electrical energy will increase at an average annual rate of
about  8 percent  over  the period  1983 to 1991.   This  is a conservative
estLmate as it is lower than the rate projected by BUNEP (para. 22), as
wel! as by consultants Tractionel (Belgium) and Ecole Polytechnique de
Lausanne (Switzerland) who have forecast an average annual growth in demand
of at least 11 percent.
Electrogaz
30.        Electrogaz, a parastatal commercial organization wholly owned by
the Government of Rwanda and reporting to the Ministry of Public Works and
Energy (MPWE), is responsible for the generation, transmission and distri-
bution of electricity and gas throughout the country and for the treatment
and distribution of water in urban areas.   Electrogaz  is governed by a
Board, nominated by the President, of five Directors including a Chairman.
The Board delegates its supervisory powers to a Manager appointed by the
President.   Theoretically the Manager's power is considerable but, partly
becauise of Electrogaz's weaknesses, his practical authority is limited by
MPWE which intervenes not only in such areas as electricity planning, but
also in personnel management. Training of staff is urgently needed in such
areas as maintenance which is now being carried out by foreign contractors
employing  foreign  workers.    Electrogaz's  administrative  and  financial
performance needs considerable improvement.   The rate of return on non-
revalued assets was only 2.5 percent in 1982.   The accounting records are
in poor condition; cost data for works in progress are incomplete and the
recording of long term debt has been irregular. Systematic annual auditing
was started only recently (para. 50).
31.        In view of the planning, administrative, financial and technical
deficiencies in the operation of Electrogaz, a management study funded by
CCCE was carried out by consultants from the third largest French water
utility,  Societe d'amenagement  urbain et rural  (SAUR),  and their report
dated May 1982 recommended various reforms of policies, programs and pro-
cedures  for the improvement of all areas of management.   Under terms of
reference approved by the Association in the context  of a Water Supply
Project (Cr. 1345-RW of July 7, 1983), and again funded by CCCE, SAUR
began, in January 1984, a two-year assignment with a team of five specia-
lists, each of whom has a Rwandese counterpart, to provide management
assistance to implement these reforms, in particular in the areas of
tariffs, accounting, financie.L management, procurement, inventory control,
as well as other administrative matters.   Among benefits anticipated are
the establishment of a more relevant Imanageraent information system and the
production of more comprehensive and reliable accounts.   Technical assist-
ance to be provided under the proposed project with funds from CCCE would



- 11 -
complement SAUR's on-going program, and is refected in an Action Plan
agreed during negotiations.   Programs  to meet  critical  training  needs
initiated with the Water Supply Project would also be amplified under the
proposed project (para. 40).
The Government's Role in the Energy Sector
32.       As has been noted  (para. 24), the Government receives technical
assistance in the energy sector from various aid agencies and voluntary
organizations.   Until very recently this assistance to the energy sector
was not well-coordinated by the Government.   The recent merging of the
4         MMinstry of Energy with the Ministrv of Public Works should improve the
possibility of coordination.   The new Ministry has formed an energy unit
and has produced its first energy policy paper.   Recently the Government
approached the Swiss Government for aid in overall energy sector planning.
The Government pursues a strategy of regional cooperation through the
Communaute Economique des Pays des Grands Lacs (CEPGL) and its specialized
agency, l'Energie des Pays des Grands Lacs (EGL) formed by Burundi, Rwanda,
and Zaire; through the Organization for the Management and Development of
the Kagera River Basin (KBO) made up of Burundi, Rwanda, Uganda and
Tanzania; and through SINELAC under the Ruzizi II Project (paras. 17 and
34).
33.         Although there is no formal power development program for the
country, the Government has taken reasonable steps to ensure a long-term,
less costly alternative to imported fuel oil by giving high priority to the
development  of hydropower.    Current  demand  projections  for the inter-
connected grid of the Great Lakes Region (which serves Rwanda, Burundi and
Eastern Zaire) indicate that after the Ruzizi II project is commissioned no
new generating station will be needed until after 1993.   The Government
recognizes that the next major tasks to be addressed with great urgency are
to increase the currently very low reliability of service of the existing
transmission and distribution system and to extend its coverage to new
consumers. The funds provided under the proposed project would be utilized
to address both of these objectives.
The Association's Role in the Energy Sector
34.        The Association's strategy in the energy sector is to help deve-
lop a balanced program of energy development focussing on more efficient
*         utilization of traditional sources as well as better exploitation of the
considerable hydropower potential in the region; an important objective is
also to improve the planning, as well as the financial and operational
*        performance of sector institutions.  Woodfuel production is to be increased
by the Integrated Forestry and Livestock Development Project (Cr. 1039-RW)
which is also providing for experimental work on improved woodstoves in
rural areas and a study of the transformation into charcoal of the bamboo
cleared from areas in the Gishwati region which are to be afforested.
Under the Water Supply (Credit 1345-RW) and the proposed project, the
Association seeks to create a financially sound and technically efficient
power and water supply utility through the upgrading of Electrogaz's
managerial,  financial and technical capabilities.   In addition,  in 1983,



- 12 -
IDA participated in the financing of the regional Ruzizi II hydro-project
which will supply electricity to Rwanda, Burundi and Zaire, at lower cost
than   if   each   country   were  to  deve!lop   power  generating   capacity
independently.  Further needs to identify the potential for developing the
Lake Kivu methane gas and to improve the efficiency of charcoal production
and its utilization in urban areas are expected to be addressed under
Technical Assistance Credit 1217-RW and the UNDP/Bank Energy Management
Assistance Programme.
PART IV - THE PROJECTX
35.        The proposed project was prepared by Electrogaz with the assist-
ance of the consultants, Fichtner (of the Federal Republic of Germany), and
the Association.  It was identified in October 1982, prepared in July and
September 1983, and appraised in October 1983.  A report entitled "Rwanda
Power Project  "(No. 4961-RW, dated May  17, 1984)  is  being  distributed
separately  to  the  Executive  Directors.    Negotiations  were  held  in
Washington from April 25 to 27, 1984.  The Rwandese delegation was led by
Mr. Joseph Nzirorera, Minister, Ministry of Public Works and Energy, and
included officials from Electrogaz.   The main features of the Credit and
Project are given in the summary at the be!ginning of this report and Annex
III.
Objectives of the Project
36.        The main objective of the proposed project is to complement the
recently approved Ruzizi II regional hydroelectric project by enabling
Rwanda to take maximum advantage of the increased output from the new
facilities.   Specifically, the project would provide improved reliability
of production, transmission and distributi'on of electrical energy, serve
additional consumers, and help sustain the economic growth of the indus-
trial and commercial sectors of the country.   Further project objectives
are to strengthen Electrogaz in planning and management, organization of
its electricity department, and general operation and maintenance.
Project Description
37.        The main features of the project c omprise:
-   the rehabilitation of the Ntaruka generating station;
-   the rehabilitation and extension of the transmission network;
-   the supply of an adequate Inventory of maintenance equipment and
spare parts;
-   the provision of vehicles;
-   technical assistance to Electrogaz and For training programs; and
-   consulting engineering services.



- 13 -
The rehabilitation of the Ntaruka generating station, two 3.75 MW units
built in 1958 and a third in 1976, is essential to provide a continuing
source of electrical energy, and to maintain the electrical stability of
the transmission system, no less so once Ruzizi II is commissioned (paras.
17, 23 and 34).   In view of the age and condition of the generating sta-
tion, a component of the project would be the replacement of worn and
obsolete  equipment  such as water  seals,  bearings,  turbine  runners,  and
electrical controls including switching and communications equipment. Most
of the transmission  system is about  the same age and condition as the
Ntaruka generating station.  Thus a component of the project would consist
of the replacement of control equipment, over-loaded transformers, and worn
and inoperative switching.   New remote telemetering and control equipment
as well  as  modern  telephone  equipment  would  also  be provided.   These
improvements would significantly increase the efficiency, reliability and
life of the station.
38.         Two new transmission lines aggregating about 40 km are proposed
to extend the transmission grid to towns beyond the existing service area.
Steel towers would be used for a 30 kV line while the line operating at 15
kV would be constructed on concrete poles.
39.         Many of the failures in the electrical system are due to the
general lack of replacement and spare parts needed in the day-to-day opera-
tion of the system.   The project would,  therefore,  provide about three
years supply of conductors, insulators, transformers, as well as smaller
items  such as  charts  for  recording  instruments,  lamps  for  annunciator
panels, and relays.   Small tools to augment the existing equipment would
also be included,  as well as items of safety equipment,  including hard
hats, safety glasses, etc.  During negotiations, agreement was reached with
the Government that, in the future, foreign exchange would be provided to
maintain a supply of maintenance equipment and spare parts at an adequate
level for proper maintenance in compliance with the agreed inventory and
procurement management guide (Section 3.04, draft Development Credit Agree-
ment and Section 3.07, draft Project Agreement).
Technical Assistance to Electrogaz
40.        A management team of five specialists from SAUR (para. 31) pro-
vided under the Water Supply Project (Cr. 1345-RW) - a mission leader, a
sales expert, an accountant, a computer expert and a water supply engineer
-- would be complemented under the proposed project by an adviser to the
Manager and by an electrical engineer. These specialists would operate in
an advisory capacity to Electrogaz's staff.   The Water Project also pro-
vides for water training in a center under construction.  The proposed pro-
ject complements this training by providing for an additional two trainers,
these in protection and safety on transmission systems and maintenance of
equipment. Agreement was reached during negotiations that Electrogaz would
create and staff three new positions:   manager of engineering, manager of
training and an assistant manager of training, the latter two to coordinate
and oversee the training for both the water and electrical departments of
Electrogaz.   In consultation with the experts, these new appointees would
be responsible for preparation of (i) a draft policy paper on personnel



- 14 -
policies and procedures; (ii) a five-year naster plan for investments in
the electricity  sector;    (iii) a plan  of  action  to  reduce  electricity
losses;   and  (iv) a training plan which would include forecasting needs,
design of course syllabi,  lists of equipment  for electrical laboratories
and recruitment of local trainers.   The foregoing items (i)-(iv) would be
available for discussion with the Association by June 30, 1985 (Sections
2 08 and 2.09 of the draft Project: Agreement).
Im_lementation
41.        Electrogaz (para. 30) would be responsible for the implementation
of -he project and would be assisted by consultants  for the design and
supervision of the project.  The project schedule is based on the comple-
tion of the rehabilitation of the Ntaruka generating station and the trans-
mission system by December 1987.  The construction of the new transmission
lines are also scheduled for completion by the end of 1987, well before the
Ruzi2i II generation stat:ion is completed in mid-1988.
Cost Estimates
42          The total project cost is estimated to be about US$19.3 million
equivalent not including duties and taxes which the Government would not,
according to its practice, levy on the project, and excluding interest
during construction.   The foreign exchange component  is estimated to be
US$17.2 million equivalent, about 89 percent of the total project cost.
The project cost estimates  for thie teclinical  assistance,  and consulting
engineering  components  were  prepared  by  the  Association  and  for  the
remaining items were prepared by Electrogaz's consultants, Fichtner of the
Federal Republic Germany, on the basis of costs as of December 31, 1983.
The cost estimates were reviewed by the Association and were found to be
reasonable.  Physical contingencies of 20 percent were added to the cost of
rehabilitation of the Ntaruka generating station and the transmission
system, and of 10 percent to the remaining items. Price contingencies were
added  to the  base  cost  plus  physical  contingencies  on  local  costs  as
follows: 1984 and 1985 -- 9.5 percent; 1986 to 1988 -  9.0 percent; and on
foreign costs as follows: 1984 -- 3.5 percent; 1985 -- 8.0 percent; 1986 to
1988 -- 9.0 percent.
43.        A total of about 200 staffmonths of engineering services would be
required for the design and supervision of construction of the project, of
which approximately 115 staffmonths would be expended in Fichtner's office
in Germany and 85 staffmonths  in Rwanda.   The cost  of the engineering
contract is estimated to be US$1.8 million, of which US$1.5 million would
be in foreign exchange.
Financing Plan
44.        The proposed IDA Credit of US$9.0 million would finance 47 per-
cent of the estimated project cost, and 52 percent of the estimated foreign
component  of the project.   The borrower would  be the Rwandese  Republic
which would onlend the funds to Electrogaz for a period of twenty years,
including five years of grace, and with an interest equal to that in effect



- 15 -
for Bank loans at the time of approval of the project by the Board.3/
Electrogaz would assume the foreign exchange risk.   The proposed credTt
would be used to finance repayment of the PPF (US$1,000,000) for
preliminary engineering studies, detailed design and project management;
and  100 per^ent  of  the  foreign component  of the rehabilitation of the
Ntaruka generating station, the two new transmission lines, maintenance
equipment and spare parts, vehicles, and consulting engineering.  CCCE has
indicated its willingness to cover the costs of the rehabilitation of the
transmission system and technical assistance to an amount equivalent  to
US$9.2 million (together with the IDA Credit, this would cover 100 percent
of  foreign  costs).   The CCCE loan would  be for  fifteen years with  a
t         five-year  grace period,  and would bear an interest  rate  of 5 percent.
Execution of a Subsidiary Agreement between the Government and Electrogaz
and the fulfillment of all conditions precedent to disbursement of CCCE
funds would be conditions of effectiveness of the credit (Section 5.01 of
the  draft  Development  Credit  Agreement).        Electrogaz  would  provide
internally generated funds equivalent to US$1.1 million to cover 52 percent
of the local costs.   Interest during construction,  amounting to US$4.2
million equivalent, would be financed by the Government.
Procurement and Disbursement
45.         Some of the items to be purchased under the proposed IDA Credit
can only be supplied  by the original manufacturer.   Thus,  it would be
necessary  for  Electrogaz  to  negotiate  directly  with  the  original
manufacturer for the supply, and guarantee for any installation, of these
types of equipment; the total cost of items to be purchased in this manner
is forecast not to exceed US$500,000.   All other items of equipment and
civil works to be financed by the Association would be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding, except for items or groups of
items costing less than US$250,000 which would be procured on the basis of
international shopping (subject to an aggregate ceiling of US$500,000) in
accordance with IDA guidelines.   Contracts for the rehabilitation of the
network and technical assistance would be awarded in accordance with CCCE's
requirements.    Consultants  for project  design and supervision would be
selected in accordance with IDA guidelines (Section 2.02 of the draft
Project  Agreement).    The  procurement  method  for  the  various  project
components follows in tabular form.
3/ Inflation in Rwanda averaged about 7 percent for the period 1981-83
(6.5 percent in 1981, 10 percent in 1982, 6.5 percent in 1983) and is
projected to average about 9 percent in the period 1984-86. Given this
and the fact that the foreign exchange risk would be borne by Electro-
gaz, the proposed on-lending rate would be positive in real terms.



- 16 -
Procurement Method (US$ million)
Total
Project Items                 ICB       LCB     Other       Estimated
Methods       Cost
Ntaruka Powerhouse             2.9 (2.5)    -    0.3 (0.3)          3.2
Transmission System             -    -       -    7.6   -          7.6
New Transmission Lines         1.5 (1.2)    -       -    -          1.5
Maintenance Equipment &
Spare parts                   2.3 (2.3)   0.1   0.2 (0.2)         2.6
Vehicles                       1.0 (1.0)    -       -    -         1.0
Technical Assistance            -    -       -    1.6   -          1.6
Consulting Engineering          -    -             1.8 (1.5)       1.8
Total               7.7 (7.0)   0.1- 11.5 (2.0)        19.3
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the proposed amounts to be financed by
IDA.
46.        The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed over four years on
the basis of 100 percent of the foreign cost of the rehabilitation of the
Ntaruka generating station, the two new transmission lines, the maintenance
equipment  and  spare  parts,  vehicles,  and  consulting  engineering.    The
closing date for the credit would be June 30, 1988, and any savings which
may accrue due to lower purchase prices or unutilized contingency funds
would be cancelled.   The rate of disbursement differs  from the average
power project because project components (i.e. rehabilitation) are not
typical.
Electrogaz's Finances
47.         Electrogaz's financial position is weak.   In 1981 it suffered a
net deficit of RwF 282 million (US$3.1 million) after charging depreciation
based on the historical value of the assets. After the increase of tariffs
on January 1, 1982, which tripled for water (from RwF 20.3/m3 to RwF
66.1/m3) and doubled for electricity (from RwF 5.1/kWh to Rwf 10.5/kWh or
US11.5/kWh), net operating income increased to RwF 194 million (US$2.1
million), which still produced a low rate of return on net historic fixed
assets  (2.5 percent).   The current ratio also improved somewhat between
1981 and 1982 from 1.1 to 1.7 respectively.   Total receivables at the end
of 1982 were at the level of about six mon-ths of revenues -- about twelve
months for the public sector, and five nonths for the private sector.
Because no reliable accounting of Electrogaz's l-ong-term debt and interest
due exists, the ratio between debt service to internal cash generation,
which is estimated at less than 10 percent, is not meaningful.   The debt
equity ratio of 27:73 in 1982 is fairly low, but this is so partly because
the Government treats its loans to Electrogaz as an equity contribution and
because the "long term debt" account is incomplete.   The current ratio of
1.7 in 1982 is satisfactory, but its level is partly the result of high
receivables.   Following the 1982 increase,  average tariffs  (USi11.5/kWh)



- 17 -
are rather high, and are close to the level of the long run marginal cost
of power in Rwanda which was estimated at about US410.9/kWh in 1984.
48.        As stipulated under the terms of the IDA Water Supply Project,
Credit 1345-RW which became effective on February 14, 1984 (V>ction 4.05 of
the Project Agreement), electricity, water and gas tariffs will be revised
each year to the levels necessary to provide not less than 25 percent of
the average of Electrogaz's annual capital expenditures incurred in the
previous fiscal year plus those expected to be incurred during the current
year and the next  following year.   This  cash covenant  is repeated  in
Section 4.04 (a) and (b) of the draft Project Agreement of the proposed
Power Project. Furthermore, Electrogaz is required under the Water Project
to apply by December 31, 1985, new tariff structures to be determined on
the basis of a tariff study to be completed by December 31, 1984.   As a
further step to strengthen its financial operations, Electrogaz would be
required under the proposed project (Section 4.05 of the draft Project
Agreement) to establish by the end of 1985, and maintain thereafter,
average tariffs for electricity at levels determined on the basis of
studies for revalued assets, tariff structure and cost reduction.  It was
further agreed at negotiations that Electrogaz would:   (i) reduce receiv-
ables from the present level of six monthst sales to four months by
December 31, 1984, and to three months by December 31, 1985 (Section 4.06
of the draft Project Agreement); (ii) design and submit an operating cost
reduction program acceptable to IDA by March 31, 1985 (Section 4.08 (a) of
the draft Project Agreement);   (iii) make no new recruitment until the
enactment of the cost-reduction program (Section 4.08 (b) of the draft
Project Agreement);   (iv) issue an inventory and procurement management
guide by March 31, 1985, the implementation of which would be supervised by
the  engineering  consultant  (paras.  39 and 41);   and  (v) obtain IDA's
approval before incurring any loan which would lower Electrogaz's debt
service ratio below 1.5 (Section 4.03 of the draft Project Agreement).
Following the enactment of the cost reduction program, any investment by
Government in Electrogaz, so long as the debt limitation clause permits it,
shall be in the form of loans rather than as contribution to capital
(Section 3.06 of  the draft Development Credit Agreement).   It was also
agreed at negotiations that Electrogaz would update the revaluation of its
fixed assets previously referred every year starting in 1984 (Section 4.07
of the draft Project Agreement).
49.         During the period 1983-1991, electricity demand is expected to
increase at an average annual  rate of 8 percent.   The Association has
tentatively estimated that tariff increases of 20 percent in 1986, 10 per-
cent in 1987 and 9 percent in 1988 would be required to provide sufficient
funds for Electrogaz's long-term investment needs while maintaining tariffs
close to the long run marginal cost.  The operating ratio for electricity
is projected to be 90 percent at the end of the period, which is high but
still adequate.   The debt equity ratio would increase during 1983-91 from
12:88 to 33:67. The debt service coverage would decrease from 8.3 to 2.8,
as the present low debt service results partly from a policy of the
Government's treating its inputs as contributions to investment, which was
a subject of negotiation (para. 48, above). The current ratio would remain
stable between 2.5 and 3 over the period, which is satisfactory.



i8 -
Accounting and Auditing
50    ~    As Electrogaz had not carried out systematic annual auditing of
its accounts, the Association required that its 1981 accounts be audited as
a conditiorn of credit effectiveness of the Water Supply Project (Cr.
1345-RW).   The 1982 accounts were also audited and the 1983 accounts are
now  biing audited.   As a result of theses audits,  additional areas for
improv'ement of accounting records have been identified (para. 30).  Under
the -terms of the Water Supply Project,  Electrogaz covenanted to have its
accounts and financial statements audited for each fiscal year thereafter.
Under the proposed project, this obligation is restated (Section 4.02 of
the draft Project Agreement), includini, Electrogaz's responsibility to
furinish to the Association as soon as available, but not later than six
monahs after the end of each fiscal year:   (i) certified copies  of its
financial  statements  for each year audited;   and (ii) the report of the
audit.   in addition,  beginning  in fiscal 1985, Electrogaz will  prepare
separate annual statements of income and funds flow and balance sheets for
its water, gas and electricity operations (Sections 4.01 (b) of the draft
Proiect Agreement).
Economic Benefits
51.           Rehabilitatiorn of the Ntaruka Generating Station is urgently
needed.    If  the  existing  deficiencies  are  not  remedied  soon  total
replacement of most of the equipment within a few years would become
inevitable.  The costs of such major replacements would amount to roughly
1US$500 per installed kW, or US$5.6 million (irn 1984 prices) and the work
would have to be undertaken by 1990.  Based on this, the economic rate of
return on the US$3.0 million rehabilitation expenditures proposed under
this project would be about 12 percent. If the benefits from avoiding the
losses which would be incurred from increasingly unreliable operations
during the intervening period were taken into account, the rate of return
would be even higher.
52.         The economic benefits resulting from the rehabilitation of the
existing transmission network have been conservatively estimated to yield
an economic rate of return of more than 17 percent, based on reasonable
assumptions on total costs of rehabilitation, economic losses from outages,
project life expectancy, annual growth in energy demand, and an annual rate
of increase in total outage duration without the project.   The economic
rates of return on the two new transmission lines is about 12 and 10
percent, respectively.   The overall economic rate of return on the project
is estimated to be about 16 percent.
53.         The project would still be justified if the sales of electrical
energy fall somewhat short of the forecast amount or if the costs are some-
what higher than estimated.   If costs were to increase by 10 percent, the
rate of return would fall to 14.5 percent; if benefits were to be reduced
by 10 percent, it would fall to 14.8 percent; with costs up by 10 percent
and benefits down by 10 percent, the rate of return would be 13.2 percent.



- 19 -
Risks and Environmental Considerations
54.          The physical  risk associated with the project would be small
because there would be little civil work, which frequently is the source of
significant cost increases. The new transmission lines would be of stand-
ard design. The main risk would be institutional, as Electrogaz is a weak
organization and may have difficulty in managing the proposed project.
However, this risk would be minimized by use of competent consultants to
assist Electrogaz in successfully completing the project, and by the
financing of four experts in management, planning and training. The elec-
trical components of the project consist of the rehabilitation of existing
facilities and equipment, which have had no negative environmental effect.
The proposed new transmission lines would operate at medium and low voltage
and the impact on the environment would be minimal.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.           The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Rwandese
Republic and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between Electro-
gaz and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Asso-
ciation are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
56.         Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this Report.
57.         I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
58.          I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
I
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 23, 1984



- 20 -
ANNEX I
T A B L E  3A                                  Page  1  of  5
RWANDA                   - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SKEET
RWANDA                                 REFERENCL CROUFS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
iOST                       (MOST FCCNT ESTIRATE) /b
RECENT               LUW INCOME              MIUUL iNCOML
1960/b      1970_/  ESTIlAlE--       AFRICA S. OF SAHARA      AFRICA S. OF jAiLARA
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. Klt)
TOTAL                                  26.3         26.3        26.3
ACKICULTURAL                           15.1         15.2        14.5
CNfP PER CAPITA (US$)                     70.U        100.0       238.0               254.6                      1147.9
ENERCY CONSUWPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRiAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        15.0         16.0        2U.U                79.6                      724.2
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POFULATION.MID-YEAR (TiOUSANDS)    2656.U        3695.U       5530.0
URBAN POPULATIUN (X uf rOTAL)           2.4          3.2         4.5                19.5                       Zb.5
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                1U.4
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                  44.1
YEAR STATIONARY FOY. REACHED                                2140
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. ciM.                        108.5       140.3       210.0                 29.5                       56.5
PER SQ. Kit. ACRI. LAND             189.3       242.9        393.0                94.1                      131.6
POPULATION AUE STRUCTURE (2)
D-14 YRS                            44.3        45.7         45.4                45.0                       45.9
15-64 YRS                            53.U        51.6         51.9                52.1                       51.Z
65 AND ABOVE                          2.7         2.7          2.7                 2.9                        2.6
POPULATION ULROWTH RATE (0)
TOTAL                                 2.6         2.6          3.6                 2.U                        2.8
URBAN                                 5.4         5.4          6.4                 6.2                        5.3
CRUDE BJRTH RATE (PER TIIOUS)          53.1         53.6        53.9                47.9                       47.6
CRUD2  DcAIH RATE (PEK TdRUS)          27.1        22.3         1S.9                19.2                       15.2
,;ROSS REPRODUCTION RATL                3.6          3.8         4.l                 3.2                        3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)              ..
USERS (U OF hARKIEU WOMLN)             ..          ..
FOoD AM NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PKOD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                          81.0       1U2.0        104.0               87.8                        95.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF REQUIREMENTS)         83.0        96.0         88.0               88.0                        97.1
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)             51.0        61.0         52.0               51.2                        56.0
OF WHiICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          26.0        34.0        29.0/c              18.1                        17.2
CIIILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RLATE          32.0        30.5         29.U               25.7                        23.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT tIRTH (YEARS)          37.2        42.1         45.6               47.4                        51.9
INFA;,T iflOT. RArE (PER THOUS)       147.0       127.0        137,U              IZ6.5                       117.6
ACCESS To SAFE WATER (ZPoP)
TOTAL                                                         37.0/d             24.7                        25.4
URBAN                                                        4   41,0/i          56.5                        7U.5
RURAL                                                         37.U,d             18.3                        1-3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(Z OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                                            53.0        57.01e              28.1
URBAN                                  .,        83.0        87.Di7              65.7
RURAL                                  ..        52.0         56.0,Ie            21.9
POPULATION PER PHiYSICIAN          143290.0/f   59600.0     31510.0             27420.6                    12181.6
POP. PER NURSING PERSON             11620.07r    6820.0       9840.0             3456.2                     2292.U
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                  ..       790.0        650.0/c           1183.2                     1075.4
URBAN                                  *-        50.0         50 o,T            380.6                      402.3
RURAL                                  *-      3100.0      1600.0i7W           3177.5                     3926.7
ADMISSEONS PER dOSPITAI. BED             ..        21.2        21.3 
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HiOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                  ,                                         ..
RURAL                                  .           .          4. 5,'e
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                        ..          .      .
RURAL                                 ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (7 OF DWEL.INGS)
TOTAL                                              ..              ..
UKBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..



- 21 -                                                    ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
T A B L E 3A
RWANDA                    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RWANDA                                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
___         /b  RECENT                LOW iNCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960_/1      1970-  ESTIMATE/          AFRICA S. OF SAHARA       AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                      49.0         74.0         70.0                 63.9                        97.2
MALE                      68.0         83.0         74.0                 7 ."                       103.1
FEMALE                    30.0         65.0         67.0                 5, .                        88.5
SECONDARY: LOTAL                       2.U          2.0          2.0                 12.,                        17.2
MALE                       2.0          3.0          2.0                 16.7                        23.5
FEMALE                     1.0          1.0          1.0                  8.1                        14.2
VUCATIONAL (X Dt' SECONDARY)            39.9         12.2         19.4                  7.3                         5.2
PUPIL-TEAChER RATIO
PRIMARY                               39.0         60.0         59.0                 46.4                        42.9
SECONDARY                             14.0         13.0         12.0                 25.1                        23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                 16.4/f       23.0/h       49.7                 36.5                        37.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP              0.4          0.9          1.S/e                3.3                        18.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP              ..          8.1         38.17"               45.3                        97.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSASD POP                 ..           ..           ..                  2.2                        18.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                  ..           ..          0.04/c               4.7                        18.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA           ..           ..         14.6/e                1.0                         0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)             1618.0       2007.0       2817.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      49.1         48.6         48.3                 34.5                        36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 95.0         93.0         91.0                 76.9                        56.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     1.0          2.0          2.0                  9.8                        17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 56.6         54.3         52.7                 40.9                        37.0
MALE                                  58.9         56.9         55.7                 53.0                        47.1
FEMALE                                54.4         51.9         49.8                 28.9                        27.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8          0.9          0.9                  1.2                         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENr OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVEO BY
HlGdEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..           ..
HIGHEST 20B OF HOUSEiiOLDS              ..           ..
LOWEST 20% OP 1OUSEHOLDS                ..           ..
LOWEST 40% OF dOUSEHOLDS                ..           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..        148.O/c              165.9                       534.2
RURAL                                   ..           ..         85.07e               87.4                       255.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEIL (2S$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..           ..                 100.8                       491.5
RURAL                                   ..           ..         43.0/c                64.6                       188.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (2)
I                         URBAN                                    ..           ..         30.0/c              39.5
RURAL                                   ..           ..         90.07o               69.0
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
,b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960' refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f 1962; /g 1974; /h 1973.
May 1983



- 22 -                                                                          ANINEX I
Pagze 3 of 5
lFIbNITIiff  pV SOCIAL. bNDiCAITiX
High  bocoo" iii ytpohoru' grou   ohere  'Itddbo  lccn,  Ntch  M       M osd   bdi   fatU. hos   bea    teo   nroe  ei-noitu..a
fo   hn  o  rio                    tnehrosno   fcibht.aogoh   nlirc-dp-e  nro   ooshbc   o   ua  o h                                                 o    oine   oaio   utb
-r_l ltanro  of -cnbdboo    tonthy                    hose  orgon  ar  oly  -rful InI nomperlo  nin  _tbu   of on- cbe                    ti   rieamn t       he' _"b   Cnurtrptt
dO (f Iuin0  noqho.)                                                                                  Pyun0ooeryntiin    oplro                        iord     by comber of pre-tint
fnc I-1  frbootoicnonohHn   icHla-a and  I,b1-d  e-roy; 196d,                                                jtF                                  Hi4AifATm        eits  toI o  st h aiose t   isoeb
19n  o'd  9t   ao                                                                                         oobtn   entariaPro                   Poaato    ioded  by obrrt pf              rirt
nyhmt, and rual,  taied  by'ter   ysfe   o   nmero    esiabbd
hiP  Ph?  OPICh I1j%  -lp-pu   -jtl no-rcb-or   to -cno    u  ecpit                                        ilehbl  IIo Pub -ntd pri-ate  tenetsb  end  peniabreeId hsp1tteb  abed
nutuhk-on   hy uri  -oc trbo   ochd Ct OCobd   iii Itbes   A79-dlhl)                                         Ithobbili-boion,e- e._inptua rts.tbIisbaenr   peomanstly staffe
Up  0),or     dy _ (io                                                                              y ofbsnno.h.             can.Otb i.h.nt.prootdiot priosipeb by  -tmradie
rape  -r  not  cidl   toalcspt             Ie,  oe    _n toobdo  hesith ab
Hfd)tlO h"Iinopllni POP CipIn  - oncloporn   coao                 'c    f uonrflmd" boa  crnu nyr rotpetnu tsory)ateff.d  by a phyli.ia   (but by e medira).
onortob'Eai) "lTnonna , p brolrno, oan,nab   on an l1hydn-,t CIcloa                       tiio     uu    bdail ,  t. hich offs-t-etln   scoodebian
-nd yr-thcn-io  coio>I   lonsen   i)ounlo                                    ubt                              irod. It botted  ...ogo of etd1tnel fauib                F.,Posaitnlproe
9t0,  b970, and  hID1 Into                                                                                   ienhoptb tnbd dOaprioiyei(geors   bralptealbs,adrub
nPhOb tC) icy Do VITAL. hATIbTfCb                                                                               OpeiltiIbdo tiapitube  are lonioded a-by aodeo  Itota.
'1cm     Popuctnir  inn-air  oonoan 01      iif Ju,ly 1; 19i, I1970, sod 191dbOeelo   o    op lld   Total  -ubet rf ed.mi-in   tno-  di.rharge
daIs.                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fr-  hoeydrale  df aidod by the nseof bedo
enbcnccuo   1h60. nIl, so    nib1 deus,                                                                o~rerape  Str. ofoehbo rrssrthaonl)-rEa1 .-obe   ebe oorai1
lot -pip,  nion  y agoand  er andshrormorto Ory  nd  Osn biby                               ohohoaueobn_fr aitienirl_parotra
itno ,  Pyirn thu  picasroco  fit rirta> ify  oabou ooynbro    hn                       rra  nih..t1 if ytpe         per.tC. roo- t.-b,nte,a   etbeeeens
noah  n  orcbnic  ebdo   endftotn  Icyirac t fo   projotbd  p- f.iroau.oloa,yon  adrrldsbbg   o prnob . b.    .d                                                       ,I
'noynbancon  onto  ut  relinucod  -ii o ~Ch boob   of   f. mo ...)onsdroyiEt... peayoIIU'og R."..                              oe    omab    nnuo    hsd              ae    b
InnnOnb  npupbantt bc  n   no  y oan    op, uni one .ono of Ooline  of                              yoa-  bus edjuoe   frdiferlegh.  fprtesy edsa.ti-n; for
Icnbny  nn   totopluconot )sel.                                                                         nrt braaun  unit sa    ducasbnn"orc 1bm"n  ma                  ed bib portent
,nnboo    brul>  to yeuo bd.                                                                  S-nndfays        l    1- ta, male and  tmb -Coped  -eabom   sruda1y
~  911-pony  pnpciiton  pin ehuiro  idi -rt   1)90 hooar )  f                              pnningr>               uebn          rMrtcher  -rining  instru-  io ..ot.
3 to,     di      iCdn          db gon.ptpn be  eauby of lb no >7 yeur  of age; nnrrsapanden...nn....eIIre
L- 2j ~      ~"ral land   C-Cnunie  uu ah           f o trbuitrl -ad                                  gro.r. blyecbdd
196    Oil0 and  itO dan.                                                                     ino -bra  -nrobo-t  fopen o1f  -sodt," y)                    t.. -..une    int"ita ..
on r dpilnbo   Hi   Ibi   "thO    OOthfb,inn  19)-!,, nedondbngbntld
f-n,- 'IcO   nor  0tH-C,lnt--, ud   bI-On                                                                           - pypnooo    ralui-y poaoro   agod.r   -   pasts sod-t ae.1dI
y-n I n   ot-;lt,195070, 1960noon  bdoe                                                               CC9o70-fIin
Cyc-'Oc n  o t  (ntn IhCtod   -   :dnn,i d-nh   ry-       huit      f ol-redeserrCotIonIosedr   Liutnbool -  dPsassoter ner  noeris   errort
nlyic'96,VinnilI   nonno    ioar    non 9d                     17,edb ret-                                n 11togeotteIlycll   ret1      1hos       ,d ofpopbston   retcadsi
..... .                                 R.di.              (P.,bensdyoeuen   an  oan- ue   and1-  in yArs tyl ano   tgit-o -tloo .,redin
d c   nnonn    toiCin  onio  -iotp-oe  0 rabooi-    f-olby PI- bu.n outiehliehtt  Lienlot..g.
......                                                                        ]V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O  Receavere (2oy n.hou-d ropnltlai-n   -Ti r fens to  brradrstt to
Fon        nn-toolnnnoforodoan-pret0   of ir ldynebprnpsnuedypotnnebisulssl'treen
nnn   o   nndhning  00  o-i   irn eootontnnto    nona    n                   nnttOo   o  oniP'hy   elerroro                                  h on   a
ii o           Itm)oo   urI dIlie  and oon-in   ur r   10 .t,                             iICkot   told durin   boo p-ra, in,obud ingonitle  to drti-iooCiom... rII d
rinoniolno    ion fond   ipyl Or  aodlrb           dunCry  panoaoa                              force   en -usoipe   btonlyb b-oasiom ,sudot.                           C  tr,c_norso
n-n-t  and  naido g         ncon.  ho  -uph)belri- -ldr onion   food,bonds,                                -ip-nuhle   1960, l9070-ad b9Ob dtct.
_'id   boo no    ofd '-'.  cP,oid    .n..or   in,H Ino btnou       -on                                Oto-1.cten   - Fett .le  labor f0C       ....a.pertoag   of torn) labor forc.
i-inirrrrotu .....n.....       by FAC bouto on pynuologiu ..rt.a df on nIr                               Agt bou1toro InerCnoC) - Cabot force  Infm iog,f-ery. hinin I ord
Iin onnhoid In         96; yi-5,i,>y   "I ildl, iao.ad toni y   ou -nan  get  -tye -urogs   ftna    e f                                                                             oc0       ie
oroyytodpnc. hn Ip Lyffin D ritf duohn                                                        uuuiulrar tneoceo  I-note.nols.a                      dfsnos-yrouIyecifor o
ul >ouononof 00drum   .. too. o.-pion, yen iy oni 20 dgun   of onion  iif                            p .yn ..ogr   of tocul ,  erod Itni1 aolno ftni    oae   on n)y
P,10   pool,  -   o-   1   n Pt"'ho.id ho, -i-a  p..rfn.   Itha                                            iho.,  hOl, od ISO>dote   Thooaehedn  Iupnipton re
COmm   gonohood Ono-oy;   nm-tI n7     no    Ste   dano  b,    -unnoo3  to-odroo                                          tai        C eb  f   popu P. o   no   ben    ledoeh
'nnnoicpn_rotpooCn ooi  ncnbn                              -    "  n by s -pp   on find,                    rho  -i-t- o     force.        i-
nonnondC noon cibob    n    utoh   ie    e   o                ili,Innc0
~~1-1   Ft, I 11   1 11                                                        ..C2R-1.  f-d., 15  Cd 65n b..dIOTIoPCbb
inhi...ho;      y,ii> , hOC   nod 1 -901     ,.   ....       r..       . dana.                             .....ooldbu   :-   2 ioo-tteurdarn-dosp.....Iuao,ion
diioocannrul           IIhnnnd-inoldnnufntooicrin                                                    sbmnd_aloryotn   nibIilitinano l-uhH_dia
runoniinlt>   n prurca1 t o bl,tinni p960      obo7 -pInnlnnr    na                                  etnl  nnn   fteiic                    Ih_bon  looeb      be_dnne    fhmhrriei.-
Connoylicninoruon      -Lrocs ......           cuttonutw  e  rod  ua    Pennonoy   of,.                                 doi-ibnIto  noIua>n    r                          .aeln
of nc nunooOd  o o   hot ropni......iroon...pat'o
Ch unI  h-hhoo   nho fo-e-lrly'tl.1Cd~"
any nnbod   nhonoilounoncod   bopiso    'Ith  it   I .n.c iCnstnn       tho                                                               hconim_Abu  und houblea-titi
cii-    boon    i    ueoitrb  oon--Ind    ysot    orth   tPitptponob   heyeotni-oenionhIonon
ponnyo ad noolarOnio_ _ooooo                                                                                       P-ap  0903



- 23 -                          ANNEX I
COUNTRY DATA - RWANDA                    Page 4 of 5
AREA                              POPULATION                     DENSITY (1982)
26.3 thousand sq. km.             5.5 million (mid-1982)         210 per sq. km.
Rate of Growth:                393 per sq. km. of
3.6% (from 1978 to 1982)           arable land
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS (1978)                 HEALTH (1977)
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000)           54.0       Population per physician       31,510
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)           21.0       Population per hospital bed       650
INCOME DISTRIBUTION                               ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
% of national income, highest quintile            (Kilograms of coal equivalent) 28.0
lowest quinttile
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (1976)                       ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
% of population - total                35.0       % of population - total           2.0
- rural
NUTRITION (1977)                                  EDUCATION (1980)
Calorie intake as % of requirements  94.2         Adult literace rate %            49.7
Per capita protein intake              57.0       Primary school enrollment %    70.0
(grams/day)
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1982-/: US$2382/
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 19812/                            ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH  /
(Z%, constant 1976 prices)-
US$ Mln.        %                    1977-81
GDP at Market Prices           1,257.8      100.0                     5.8
Gross Domestic Investment        282.4       22.5                     8.0
Gross National Saving            109.8        8.7
Current Account Balance         -172.6      -13.7
Export of Goods, NFS             150.9       12.0                    -3.9
Import of Goods, NFS             332.0       26.4                     5.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
RwF Mln.                % of GDP
1982V/          19823/           1977
Current Receipts                 16,150            11.9             11.5
Current Expenditure              15,120            11.1              8.6
Current Surplus                   1,030             0.8              2.9
Capital Expenditures              3,554             2.2              1.4
Overall Surpluss/                -3,024            -2.2              1.2
1/  The Per Capita GNP estimate calculated by the same conversion technique as the
World Bank Atlas. All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the
average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
2j Preliminary data.
3/ Data are not available for GDP components.
4/  Trend rates based on least square estimates.
5/  The overall surplus is not equal to the difference between current savings and
development expenditures because the consolidated surplus or deficit of the
Treasury special accounts is not shown in this table.
not available.
not applicable.



- 24 -
ANNEX I
COUNTRY DATA - RWANDA                         Page 5 of 5
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                        1978       1979       1980      1981       1982V
I/                                     (M. illion RwF outstanding end period)
Money Supply-                                 :11,204    14,122    14,270    16,060    17,460
Bank Credit to Government (net)                    23      1,473    -3,829    -2,778         150
Bank CredLt to Private Sector                   5,134      4,564     6,480      8,147      9,765
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money as % of GDP                                13.8       14.6       13.4      13.8       13.0
Consumer Price Index (Jan-Mar 1976   100)    131.3         152.1      163.2     173.8      191.2
Annual percentage changes in:
Consumer Price Index                           12.5       15.8       7.3        6.5       10,0
Bank Credit to Government (net)               -93.7   -65C4.3    -159.9        27.4      105,4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                  17.0     -11.1       42.0       25.7       19.9
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                           MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1978-82)
1979   1980   1981   19829/                      US$ Mln .
(US$ Millions)
Exports of Goods, NFS           227    166    151    156        Coffee             78.0        56,I
Imports of Goods, NFS          -309   -323   -332   -348        Tea                10.7         8.2
Resource Gap (deficit = -)    -82   -157   -181   -.192         Cassiterite        16.6        12.8
Factor Services (net)            -2      5      12     10       Wolfram             5.1         3.8
Net Transfers                     5     -1      -3      -       Pyrethrum           1.1         0.7
Balance on Current Account    -79   -155   -172   -.182         Cinchona            1.7        18.3
Other              22.5        18.3
Official Grants                 128    106    106      97         Total           135.7       lG0.0
Direct Private For. Invest.    13       17      19     19
Net MLT Loans                    40     33      25     30    EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1982
Other M and LT (net)            -22     -2       2      -                                  US$ Mln.
Net Short-Term Capital          -10     22      20     -3    Public Debt, incl.guaranteed 189.3
Capital Flows, NEI                1     -2      -9     -3    Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Errors and Omissions             -1     -6       6      -    Total Outstanding & Disbursed
Increase in Reserves (-)        -70    -13      -3    -42
Gross Reserves (end year)       177.6  208.8  199.2  161.6  NET DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1982-'
Petroleum Imports3/              23.0   30.0   42.0   49.0                                     x
Petroleum Exports/                 .       .      .      .   Public Debt, incl. guaranteed  2.8
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                              Total Outstanding & Disbursed
Annual           End
Averages        Period           IDA LENDING, (Sept.30,1983)(US$Mln.)
1974-end Aug.1983  Oct. 1983                                         IDA
US$ 1.00 = RwF                 92.84          97.0           Outstanding & Disbursed        88.48
RwF 1.00 = US$                  0.011          0.010          Undisbursed                  110.30
RwF 1.00 = SDR                   ..            0.010          Outstanding including
SDR 1.00 = RwF                   ..          102.71            Undisbursed                 198.78
I/  Includes Money and Quasi Money
/  Provisional
2/ Crude and Derivatives.
i| Debt Service net of interest earned on foreign exchange reserves
as a percentage of Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available
not applicable



- 25 -
INNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERiATION3 IN RWANDA
A. Statement of IDA Credits
(As of March 31, 1984)
Amount US$ million
Credit No.    Fiscal Year   Borrower               Purpose              (less cancellations)
IDA    Undisbursed
(Seven credits have been fully disbursed')1!                             51.74
567-RW          1975        Rwanda      Education                      6.38       1.65
769-RW          1978                    Road Maintenance              15.00       0.31
896-RW          1979                    DFC II                         5.20       0.94
937-RW          1979                    Mutara Agricultural &
Livestock Development        8.75        3.34
1039-RW          1980                    Integrated Forestry &
Livestock Development       21.00       9.23
1057-RW          1981                    Telecommunications             7.50       6.69
1126-RW          1981                    Coffee/Foodcrops              15.00       8.88
1217-RW          1982                    Technical Assistance           5.00       4.52
1250-RW          1982                    Fifth Highway                 25.90      22.91
1263-RW          1982                    Second Education              10.00       9.38
1283-RW          1982                    Phase II Bugesera/
Gisaka/Migongo              16.30      11.57
1344-RW          1983                    BRD III                        7.00        6.92
1345-RW          1983                    Water Supply                  13.00      11.27
Total (less cancellations)              207.772/    97.61
of which has been repaid            3.30
TOTAL HELD                              204.47
1/ Rwanda has received no Bank loan.
3/ Does not include US$15.0 million benefitting Rwanda and provided under the regional
Ruzizi Hydro-Electric Project presented to the Board on December 6,1983.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments in Rwanda
(as of March 31, 1984)
IFC's existing investments in Rwanda comprise the two investments pre-
viously made in Sorwath6 and its predecessor companies, SIRT and USINE. Details
are as follows:
US$ '000
Total
Investment  Fiscal                 Type of                            Held by
Number      Year   Obligor       Business   Equity  Loan  Total    IFC    Undisbursed
337 RW        1975   SIRT/   ) Tea process-    -         535    535    348            -
USINE   )   ing and
)   marketing                                           a/
470 RW        1979   Sorwathe)                   60      226    226    176           60-
Total                              60      761    761    524           60
a/ Contingent equity commitment.



- 27 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJEC T DAT SRHEET
RWANDA
POWER PROJECT
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification:                   October 1982
(b)  Project Preparation:              July and September 1983
(c)  Appraisal Mission:                October 1983
(d)  Negotiations:                     End-April 1984
(e) Planned Date for
Credit Effectiveness:          December 1984
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
In addition to repeating the cash and tariff structure covenants
of the Water Supply Project, the proposed Power Project provides
for covenants related to tariff levels, arrears on receivables,
cost reduction program, limitation of recruitment, inventory and
procurement, debt service ratio and debt structure (para. 48).
Section IV:  Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) The execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government of Rwanda and Electrogaz (para. 44); and
(b) fulfillment of all conditions precedent to disbursement of
cofinancing funds (para. 44).






UGANDA>                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD  17959
aU G A N D A /   4                                                               R W A N D A~~~0-                3'            FEBRUrAPY 1984
UGANDA           r~RWANDAFERPr
JKomp3    KENYA 4                                                                      POWER PROJECT
N                  L 4, ake,d:DLK-p  K   N
A -         rea,;orro ,.       .rrro.                             N
.7fj l '                                                                                                                                 25 c2
(ffH        i         ;          Kong                                                                               optr L  41-       < L gO ; m FTFPSiGrRpd
BURUPNDI 
D-y  Fr  SIryl.or
\7Ntoke ,<<                                                          6 6              rI,Kdo-Rmsasiob  6sSy
"Zgw 4                                                     G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,t~.i3rqar-SiGw-M-sens  (Srdyl
-  rhino  r name Gaskrd   .      nd                                          t9               Kib-rordo-GahIoK, Kig-r (Story)
Imw                                                                    R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 \ - oug- asSmoSdydy
-                                                               inr4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 
/Kr - -         ~       0~Kneg                                                                                   Pr nay Roads
if 5/OrMin                                                                                         - R.ru.rr.r    _____,-___g  Se-dyona   R.oad
u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L                                                               Hydro, Powe Plants
F-  I                                 K,-d.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1K  faoisa
28 W,                                                                                                   Tk-.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 KVrann saion Lne
4  w                                                                                   ~~~           ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~  ----   Ia---a  I30 KV Tras-pai-n Ln-s
30 KV rasT---i- Line
15 K V Trnria -r ie






