O 0FICIAL
DOCUMENTS      CREDIT NUMBER 1495 RW
Development Credit Agreement
(Power Project)
between
RWANDESE REPUBIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                     /0   , 1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1495 RW
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGRFEMENT, dated                      /      , 1984, between
the RWANDESE REPUBLIC (hereinaf r called the Borrower) and the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out with the Borrower's
assistance  by  the   Etablissement  Public  de  Production,   de
Transport et de Distribution d'Electricite, d'Eau et de Gaz
(hereinafter called ELECTROGAZ), a public utility of the Borrower
responsible for the production, transportation and distribution
of electricity, water and gas within the Rwandese Republic,
established pursuant to Decree Law No. 18 of 1976 as said Decree
may be amended from time to time, and, as part of such assist-
ance, the Borrower will make the Credit available to ELECTROGAZ
as hereinafter provided;
(C) the Borrower intends to receive from the French Caisse
Centrale de Coop6ration Economique (hereinafter called the CCCE)
a loan in the amount of 75,200,000 French Francs to assist in
financing Part B of the Project (hereinafter called the CCCE
loan); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
ELECTROGAZ;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit kgreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein


﻿-2-
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement,. unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and ELECTROGAZ of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supple-
mental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary    Loan  Agreement"   means   the   agreement
entered into between the Borrower and ELECTROGAZ pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(c) "Project Preparation Advance" means the total of the
project preparation advances granted by the Association to the
Borrower pursuant to exchanges of letters dated June 30, 1982 and
September 21, 1982, and June 12, 1984 as supplemented by telex
No. 832 of July 31, 1984 and June 23, 1984, between the Borrower
and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
qection  2.01. The    Association  agrees  to  lend   to  the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent      to
eight million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 8,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Associa-
tion shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost in foreign exchange of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-3 -
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988 or
such  later   date  as  the  Association   shall  establish.   The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restriction of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each
year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Feb-
ruary 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1994, and ending
February 15, 2034, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 15, 2004, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
Thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.10. ELECTROGAZ is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
tion upon any of its other obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, shall cause ELECTROGAZ to carry out the Project
and to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreement all the other obligations of ELECTROGAZ therein set
forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable ELECTROGAZ to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
ELECTROGAZ under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ELECTROGAZ under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association and which shall
include a term of 20 years including 5 years of grace, interest
at the rate of 10% per annum, and the assumption by ELECTROGAZ of
the exchange risk.


﻿- 5 -
(c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and of the Association and to accomplish the
purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall. not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall ensure that: (i) the total
amount of receivables on account of gas, electricty and water
supplied to all customers by ELECTROGAZ, including the most
recent month's billings, not exceed four months' billing; and
(ii) the total amount of such receivables due from governmental
customers not exceed three months' billings to such customers.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be
necessary on its part to permit ELECTROGAZ to comply with its
obligations under Section 4.05 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure at all times the
availability to ELECTROGAZ of such foreign exchange as shall be
necessary to purchase maintenance equipment, supplies and spare
parts to enable ELECTROGAZ properly to maintain its equipment.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall ensure that all appoint-
ments to the staff of ELECTROGAZ be approved by its Personnel
Manager.
Section 3.06. Following the adoption by ELECTROGAZ of the
plan for cost reduction established under Section 4.08 (a) of the
Project Agreement, any further investment in ELECTROGAZ by the
Borrower shall, to the extent permitted by the debt limitation
provisions of Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement, be in the
form of loans rather than contributions to capital.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) ELECTROGAZ shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.


﻿- 6 -
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, in extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
ELECTROGAZ will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
(c) Decree No. 18 (1976) of the Borrower shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of ELECTROGAZ to perform any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ELECTROGAZ or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower or of ELECTROGAZ to
withdraw the proceeds of any loan, credit or
grant made for the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor; or
(B) any such loan or credit shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancel-
lation, termination or prematuring is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower or of ELECTROGAZ to
perform any of their respective obligations under
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project   are  available   to   the   Borrower  or
ELECTROGAZ from other sources on terms and condi-
tions consistent with the obligations of the Bor-
rower under this Agreement and of ELECTROGAZ under
the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:


﻿-.7-
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for -a period of
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and ELECTROGAZ; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject, in the
latter. case, to the proviso of subparagraph (ii) of such para-
graph (e).
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and ELECTROGAZ; and
(b) all conditions precedent to the first disbursement of
the proceeds of the CCCE loan, except for the effectiveness of
this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by ELECTROGAZ, and is legally binding upon ELECTROGAZ in
accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and ELECTROGAZ and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and ELECTROGAZ in accordance
with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date,A               Ae /09dp#. is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-8-
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sec-
tion 3.02 of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraph (e)
of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall termin-,
ate or on a date twenty-six years after the date of this Agree-
ment, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this
Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower responsible for Finance
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances et de l'Economie
Botte Postale 158
Kigali
Rwandese Republic
Cable address:                        Telex:
MINIFIN                          04 or 021 PUB KGL
Kigali
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI)
89650 (WUT) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have -caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
RWA;DESE REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
gio 1 Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of
amounts of the Credit to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                 SDR Equivalent)
(1) Rehabilitation of the Ntaruka                 2,460,000
generating station
(2) New transmission lines                         940,000
(3) Equipment for maintenance;                    2,080,000
spare parts
(4) Vehicles                                       850,000
(5) Consultants'                                    290,000
services for supervision of works
(6) Refunding of Project                           940,000
Preparation Advance
due under Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement
(7) Unallocated                                    940,000
TOTAL   8,500,000
2.   To the extent that the amount allocated to Category (6)
above is in excess of the amount due, the balance will be
reallocated to category (7).
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;


﻿- 11 -
(b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement; or
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on    goods or services, or on      the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above,
if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance all expenditures in that Category, the Association may,
by notice to the Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the
Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which in
the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other
expenditures.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objectives of the Project are to provide reli-
ability of production, transmission and distribution of electri-
cal energy to meet the needs of consumers and to sustain the
economic growth of the country. In addition, the capabilities of
ELECTROGAZ as an institution in the technical management of its
electricity operation and in personnel management and training
will be strengthened with the help of financial and technical
advisers.
The Project includes the following:
Part A:   Rehabilitation  of   the  Ntaruka  generating   station;
construction of new transmission lines from Ntaruka to
Cyanika and from Gifurwe to Gakenke/Nemba.
Part B:   Rehabilitation of the transmission system, including
lines, transformers, switching stations and telecommu-
nications.
Part C:   Strengthening of ELECTROGAZ's management and opera-
tions, including personnel management, management of
electricity operations and staff training, with the
assistance of consultants and experts; acquisition of
vehicles.
Part D:   Expansion  of  ELECTROGAZ's inventory    of  maintenance
equipment and spare parts.
*          *          *           *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1987.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   0      -day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


