Document of                    FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2806-UNI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A
EKITI AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN
ONDO STATE
May 7, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       Naira (N)
US$1                N 2 0.60
N 1             =   US$1.67
WEIGHTS AND 21EASURES
1 metric ton             =       0.98 long ton
1 long ton               =       1.017 metric ton
(2,240 lbs)
1 hectare                =       2.47 acres
1 acre                   =       0.405 hectare
1 kilometer (km)         =       0.62 mile
ABBREVIATIONS
AISU      -    Agricultural Input Services Unit
APGB      -    Agricultural Projects Governing Board (Ondo State)
API4EPU    -    Agricultural Projects 21onitoring, Evaluation and Planni.ig Unit
APIIU     -    Agricultural Projects 14anagement Unit for West Africa (IBRD)
ASP       -    Advanced Service Package
BPCC      -    Budget and Policy Coordinating Committee
BSP       -    Basic Service Package
EAPRIU    -    Ekiti-Akoko Project 2Ianagement Unit
FnA       -    Federal Ministry of Agriculture
FGN       -    Federal Government of Nigeria
LGC       -    Local Government Council
MARD      -    2Iinistry of Agriculture and Rural Development - Ondo State
NACB      -    Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank
ONSG      -    Ondo State Government
OSACC     -    Ondo State Agricultural Credit Corporation
Fiscal Year
April 1    -   Mlarch 31 (until January 1, 1981)
January 1 - December 31 (from January 1, 1981)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA - EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Federal Republic of Nigeria.
Beneficiary:       Ondo State of Nigeria.
Amount:            US$32.5 million.
Terms:             Payable over 20 years including 5 years of grace at an
interest rate of 8.25 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:  The Federal Government would onlend the full US$32.5
million to the Ondo State Government on the same terms as
the Bank loan. The Federal Government would carry the
foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:       The project would consist of a package of farm support
services and physical infrastructure designed to benefit
directly 70,000 farm families located in the Ekiti-Akoko
zone of Ondo State. Support services would include ex-
tension advice, crop protection measures, improved seeds,
fertilizers, and the provision of credit facilities.
Physical infrastructure would include construction and
improvement of 500 km of feeder and farm roads, the mainte-
nance of these roads, and the establishment of a project
headquarters as well as 30 farm service centers. A project
management unit with appropriate technical and administra-
tive staff would be established to implement the project.
Facilities would be provided for training both agricultural
field staff and senior specialists. Consultant services
would be engaged to help initiate project start-up activi-
ties; carry out a hydrological survey and to assist in
establishing a project staff and farmer training program.
The project faces only minor risks arising principally from
failure to achieve the farmer adoption rate but the basic
package is simple and well tested.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local   Foreign   Total
-----(US$ Million)-----
Project Management and Administration
(including Tr-!ning and Evaluation)          6.0       2.8      8.8
Commercial Services                          7.2       3.0      10.2
Technical Services
Extension                                  5.7       1.3       7.0
Farm Management/Planning                   1.5       0.8       2.3
Seed Multiplication                        1.5       1.0       2.5
Livestock                                  0.8       0.7       1.5
Engineering
Roads and Water                           10.5       7.9      18.4
Buildings Section                          1.5       0.7       2.2
Workshop                                   1.8       1.0   -  2.8
Farm Inputs                                  5.0       5.5      10.5
Consultant Services and Studies               -        0.7       0.7
(Minus Existing Expenditures)               (9.2)      (-)     (9.2)
Total Base Costs                          32.3      25.4     57.7
Physical Contingencie:                       2.7       1.5       4.2
Price Contingencies                         13.0       5.6      18.6
Total Project Costs (including
taxes and duties of US$4.5 million)        48.0      32.5     80.5
Financing Plan:
Local         Foreign        Total
…--------…(US$Million)---------
IBRD                                         --            32.5           32.5
Federal Government                          20.2            --            20.2
Ondo State Government                       27.8            --            27.8
Total                             48.0           32.5            80.5
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year                            1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
---------(US$ Million)----------
Annual                                       9.5    4.7    5.0    7.3    6.0
Cumulative                                   9.5   14.2   19.2   26.5   32.5
Rate of Return:                              20 percent
Staff Appraisal Report                       2514-UNI, dated April 14, 1980



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO TIiF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NIGERIA
FOR AN EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN ONDO STATE
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of US$32.5 million
to help finance a project for agricultural development in the Ekiti-Akoko zone
in Ondo State of Nigeria. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including
5 years of grace, with interest at 8.25 percent per annum. The full proceeds
of the loan would be relent to the Ondo State Government on the same terms as
the Bank Loan. The Federal Government would carry the foreign exchange
risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum on Nigeria (Report 2428-UNI), dated
June 19, 1979, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. The follow-
ing paragraphs summarize the major conclusions of that report, and update
them on the basis of more recent developments. Country data are attached
as Annex I.
Political Background
3.        Following 13 years of military rule, a civilian government assumed
office in Nigeria on October 1, 1979. The government is headed by Mr. Shehu
Shagari, leader of the National Party of Nigeria, which emerged from the
elections as the party with the greatest and widest support. The economic
policies of the new administration have yet to be formulated in detail.
Nevertheless, Mr. Shagari has indicated that his policies with respect to
domestic and foreign affairs will follow the same broad principles as those
espoused by the outgoing administration. Rural development, increased food
emerging as the production, education and low-cost housing are focal points
of the new administration's program. A greater role of the private sector
in development is envisaged.
Economic Developments 1974-78
4.        Nigeria has an estimated population of about 80 million (1978),
with a per capita income of around US$560. Per capita income alone, how-
ever, is not a satisfactory indicator of the average living standard in
Nigeria. In terms of such criteria as child mortality, life expectancy,
and number of people per physician, Nigeria ranks amongst the poorest coun-
tries in the world. Oil has been a major resource for Nigeria for over a
decade, but acquired a dominating influence in the economy only after the
sharp escalation of oil prices in 1973/74. Within a year, oil revenues
tripled, rising to over US$6.5 billion (roughly US$100 per capita) in 1974/75
1/ This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report
for an Oyo North Agricultural Development Project in Oyo State approved
by the Board on April 29, 1980.



- 2-
and foreign exchange earnings rose commensurately . This occurred at a time
when Nigeria depended primarily on agriculture for income and employment. It
had only a small industrial base and the existing infrastructure was deficient
and in a very poor state.
5.        The nation's first concern at that time was to use the oil wealth
to improve greatly - indeed revolutionize - the state of the country's social
and physical infrastructure, and establish heavy industry. The Government
simultaneously set out to achieve satisfactory growth of agriculture and
light manufacturing to ensure broadly-based economic progress. All these
concerns were underscored in the Third National Development Plan (1975-80).
The plan was prepared in the midst of the oil boom and reflected the optimism
and confidence of that time. It contemplated a total investment program of
about US$50 billion (representing a three-fold increase over the previous
plan period), with the public sector accounting for about US$35 billion
(subsequently raised close to US$45 billion due to cost increases). The
public sector program contained large allocations for transport (28 percent)
and industry (19 percent), and an ambitious goal for free and compulsory
universal primary education (UPE) by 1980 was set. The economy was expected
to grow at 9.5 percent a year, with agriculture growing at 5 percent and
manufacturing at 18 percent.
6.        The actual course of events, however, turned out to be quite
different. In the post-oil boom period, the Nigerian economy grew at an
average rate of 6 percent a year. There was little increase in the agricul-
tural output and the growth of manufacturing, at 12 percent a year, remained
below the Third Plan target. Although construction, power, transport, and
public services expanded at around 20 percent a year, serious physical
bottlenecks emerged. Acute power shortages and congested ports and roads
undermined the productivity of existing industrial plants, upset the normal
distribution channels and caused consumer frustration. These factors contri-
buted to a rapid increase in production costs, which in turn made it general-
ly difficult for domestic production in both agriculture and manufacturing to
compete with foreign produced goods. Because the fastest growing tertiary
sectors are concentrated in the urban areas, economic growth had a strong
urban bias which tended to accentuate urban-rural income inequalities and
encourage emigration of young labor from rural areas. Also, private invest-
ment, at least in the early years, remained sluggish for a variety of reasons,
such as the indigenization measures and the uncertain domestic and interna-
tional economic environment.
7.        The oil revenues, which were critical for the implementation of
the proposed public sector program, fell substantially short of expectations,
while the actual costs of the programs and projects turned out to be much
higher. Large deficits in the government budget and balance of payments
appeared quite early in the period, and the resource constraint came to
reassert itself much sooner than expected. Although the additional oil
resources were used largely to augment the nation's capital stock (the



- 3 -
federal budget current surplus amounted to 60 percent of current revenues,
capital expenditures rose so quickly -- seven-fold between 1973/74 and
1977/78 -- that the budget was in substantial deficit already by 1975/76.
8.        As provided in the Third Plan, government investment concentrated
on transport, heavy industry and education, which yielded some impressive
results, particularly in roads and ports. Not surprisingly, the much enlarged
public sector investments, together with the growing financial difficulties,
considerably strained the existing administrative capacity. Thus, costs
and project design could not always be closely controlled, and investments
tended to be capital intensive with a large import content.
Financial Difficulties and Government Stabilization Measures
9.       Nigeria's financial difficulties were further aggravated in 1977
when Nigerian oil, at the official price set in April 1977, faced keen
competition in European and US markets from other, cheaper sources. Conse-
quently, Nigerian sales, which began to decline in the latter half of 1977,
plummeted in the early months of 1978.
10.       Federal budget deficits and the drawdown of foreign exchange
reserves had been increasing over time, but the country's financial situation
became critical in 1977/78. The fiscal year closed with a Federal Government
overall budget deficit of about US$3 billion, representing about 10 percent
of GDP. Foreign exchange reserves declined sharply and by the end of 1978
stood at US$2.2 billion, a level equivalent to only seven weeks of imports.
The annual rate of inflation averaged 15 percent during t1Yese two years,
rendering domestic production of tradeables progressively less competitive
with foreign produced goods.
11.       To overcome these problems, the Government took a number of steps
designed to increase public resources, to curtail public expenditure and to
curb imports. The Nigerian oil price was brought in line with the prices of
its competitors in order to reverse the trend of declining oil exports.
Non-oil revenues in 1978/79 were augmented through higher rates for income
tax, excises, and import duties as well as through better enforcement of tax
laws and procedures, while cutting Federal Government capital expenditures by
25 percent in nominal terms.
12.       In order to strengthen the balance of payments position, import
licensing and other restrictions were introduced to reduce particularly
the nonessential consumer imports. The Government also succeeded in raising
two large syndicated loans (amounting to US$1.75 billion) in the Euro-currency
market. In addition, the Government during this period shifted the emphasis
in its expenditures towards agriculture and introduced policies and programs
to stimulate agricultural production.



- 4 -
13.       On the wiole, the above measures succeeded in bringing about a
measure of domestic economic stability and stopping the drain on foreign
exchange reserves. The oil output, following the price reduction, revived
quickly and reached well over 2 mbd in the latter half of 1978 compared to an
average of 1.5 mbd at the start of the year. The overall budget deficit
for 1978/79 turned out to be only 60 percent of the previous year's level
or about 5 percent of GDP. The import restrictions also appear to have
been very effective in achieving their objective.
Recent Oil Market Developments and Short-term Outlook
14.       Nigeria's financial position has improved dramatically during
1979 following succesive increases in the world oil price. In line with
other OPEC countries, Nigeria raised the price of its crude oil to $34 per
barrel on February 1, 1980, up from $14.10 in December 1978. The high price
coincided with a record output of 2.3 mbpd during 1979. Together, these two
factors have changed the fiscal situation and added considerably to foreign
exchange reserves. Export earnings in 1979 are estimated to have exceeded
$18 billion, an increase of 65 percent over the previous year, and federal
revenue for 1979/ 80, budgeted at N8.8 billion is likely to exceed Nll
billion. Indications are that most of the additional revenue was used
to increase capital expenditure, which may have risen by as much as 20
percent in real terms. This expansion is dictated primarily by the large
number of unfinished investments.
Economic Prospects and Policies
15.       Unless there are major new oil discoveries--the chances of which
are not held to be very good--Nigeria's future oil output will not rise
above current levels and, because of rapidly rising domestic consumption,
the volume of oil exports is likely to decline over time. On the other
hand, it is expected that the economy's demand for imports will continue to
rise at rapid pace in view of the size of the economy, the level of economic
development, the pipeline of unfinished investments, and numerous newly
identified investment projects. Over the next few years, Nigeria can expect
to be in a comfortable financial position, and should be able to build up its
foreign exchange reserves. Nevertheless, the underlying divergence in growth
rates of imports and exports has serious implications for longer term econo-
mic prospects. Because of the economy's heavy reliance on oil-financed
imports and investment, the outlook for the post-oil era depends on the
success with which imports are replaced by domestic production, and non-oil
exports are stimulated. Growth in the non-oil sector must become self-
generating as oil resources are depleted.
16.       The government is at present preparing the Fourth National Develop-
ment Plan, which is expected to come into effect in January 1981. Indica-
tions are that the next five years will be used to consolidate the nation's
economic base and to lay the foundations for balanced long-term economic
development. The new administration intends to put particular emphasis on
improving the performance of agriculture in order to halt the steep rise in
food imports and the decline in agricultural exports. It is also likely that
the private sector will be encouraged to play a growing role and that foreign
participation will also be encouraged.



- 5 -
17.       Given the great improvement in Nigeria's financial prospects,
and assuming an active private sector, domestic investment is expected to
be maintained at a high level of around 28 percent of gross domestic income
during 1980-85. Provided investments are well conceived and productive,
this rate should permit the economy to grow at about 5 percent a year--more
than 7 percent for non-oil GDP--with fair potential for employment generation.
The economy-wide ICOR is expected to remain high owing to the weight of
the large capital intensive projects in the ongoing public sector investment
program.  Imports are likely to grow faster than GDP, at least initially,
if restrictions on imports of consumer goods are eased somewhat in view
of the stronger foreign exchange position.
18.       Now that financial constraints have been relaxed, there will no
doubt be pressures on the government to reverse the policy of prudent budget
and balance of payments management, instituted by its predecessor. These will
be a major test and challenge for it to proceed cautiously in the face
of these pressures in order to avoid repeating the experienice of 1974-75.
In addition to careful resource management, the performance of the economy
will depend on how successful the government is in directing investment
priorities and policy emphasis towards directly productive sectors. A
critical factor will be the competitiveness of domestic production relative
to foreign goods. This will require that close attention be paid to the
establishment of a favorable cost and price structure.
External Borrowing and Creditworthiness
19.       Until recently Nigeria had only limited recourse to external
borrowing. Total debt outstanding (including undisbursed) amounted to only
US$1.3 billion at the end of 1977. Since then it increased to US$3.2 billion,
mainly as the result of two syndicated Euro-currency loans. During 1979
project related commercial borrowing was in the order of US$2 billion.
,However, by the mid 1980s, when the debt service on currently contracted
loans will peak, it will still amount to less than 3 percent of export
earnings. The World Bank's share in total debt outstanding, though high at
around 50 percent in 1977, has now dropped to below 15 percent as a result of
the increase in commercial borrowing. Given the relatively low level of
external indebtedness, the Government's generally cautious approach to
external borrowing, and the favorable prospects for oil, the debt service is
likely to remain below 10 percent over the next decade. Provided the Govern-
ment is successful in implementing policies to enhance the productivity of
investment and maintain balance between resource availability and use,
Nigeria can be considered creditworthy for considerable Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
20.       Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of March 31, 1980 amounted to
US$1,240.0 million (net of cancellations). The amount of these loans and



- 6 -
credits disbursed as of March 31, 1980 was US$665.3 million, leaving an
undisbursed balance of US$574.7 million. Transport, power and water supply
together account for about 48 percent of total commitments; agriculture for
about 31 percent (most of which was committed in the last five fiscal years);
and education, industry, urban and the post-war rehabilitation loan for the
remaining 21 percent of total commitments. Gross disbursements in FY78 were
about US$51 million, and US$60 million in FY79, but are expected to increase
in the coming years in line with the expansion of Bank lending to Nigeria.
There have been only two IDA credits to Nigeria, for US$35.3 million; both are
fully disbursed. IFC has made four loans to borrowers totalling US$9.8
million, and five equity investments totalling US$3.1 million. Of these
amounts, US$3.9 million have been repaid, cancelled, or sold. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments,
as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
21.       The main thrust of the Bank's activities in Nigeria in recent years
has been to support agriculture and rural development, with particular em-
phasis on institution-building and transfer of technology. These objectives
are in consonance with the Federal Government's priorities under the Third
Plan, which places considerable emphasis on agriculture, and its policy to use
the proceeds of Nigeria's oil revenues to increase the productive capacity of
the economy, and thereby raise the standard of living of its population,
particularly the rural poor.
22.       In view of the interest which Nigeria has expressed in greater
Bank involvement, an expanded Bank lending program has been initiated.
In developing a broader approach to lending in Nigeria, a central objective
is to encourage the shift (already discernable in the Federal Government's
investment programming) away from the massive and diffused infrastructure
investment which characterized the two or three years following the oil
boom of 1973/74 towards a more discriminating support for growth in the
commodity producing sectors. A second objective of Bank lending is to raise
the productivity of the lowest income groups and thereby diminish the inci-
dence of absolute poverty in Nigeria. This objective has been actively
pursued in recent agricultural projects, including the presently proposed
project, which benefit some of the very lowest income groups. Agricultural
lending of this kind would continue to figure prominently in the future
lending program. A third objective of Bank lending is to support the Federal
Government's efforts to diversify the economy, and reduce the excessive
dependence upon petroleum as a source of foreign exchange and fiscal revenue.
Agricultural lending, in particular, would include strengthening the
potential for export crops such as cocoa.
23.       The directly productive sectors constitute an appropriate focus
for an expanded lending program. Projects in both agriculture and industry
together should account for a large share of Bank lending in the coming
two or three years. Effective support for the commodity producing sectors
will also require strategic investment in production-related infrastructure,
however. There would appear to be good opportunities for the Bank to make



-7-
a significant contribution in power, water supply, and highway maintenance.
Further project identification work is under way in these sectors. Similarly,
there is a strong case for continued lending for education. In this context,
it is proposed that vocational, technical, and teacher training be given
special emphasis. Finally, the Bank would support the Federal and state
governments' efforts to spread the benefits of growth to the social sectors.
It is envisaged that some of the pressing problems of rapid urbanization will
continue to be addressed through a number of urban development projects, along
the lines of the ongoing project in Bauchi State, focussed on the needs of the
urban poor. A sectoral distribution of lending along these lines would be in
keeping with the need to generate employment, and would also support the
Federal Government's aim of mobilizing Nigeria's petroleum revenues to alle-
viate poverty and improve the overall distribution of income.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR 1/
24.       Despite the prominence of the petroleum sector, agriculture con-
tinues to play an important role in the Nigerian economy. Approximately
60 percent of Nigeria's population is dependent upon agriculture for its
principal source of employment and income and the agricultural sector will,
for some time, continue to play a key role as an employer and as a provider of
foodstuffs for the rapidly growing urban population. The importance of the
agricultural sector is manifest also by other indicators. Value added by
agriculture accounts for almost one quarter of GDP and fully one-third if
petroleum production is excluded. Furthermore, over 60 percent of non-oil
exports consist of agricultural products.
25.       In terms of growth, the agricultural sector has been essentially
stagnant in recent years. Production has fluctuated significantly from
year to year, but there was hardly any real growth of value added during the
period 1970-78. These years witnessed a marked decline in the export of
traditional agricultural products, while imports of food rose from US$80
million to nearly US$1,300 million. At the same time, food prices rose
precipitously as demand outstripped domestic supply.
26.       Agricultural production is almost entirely in the hands of small-
holders whose levels of technology and productive efficiency are low. The
typical productive unit is a family farm of between 2-3 hectares. Although
there is regional specialization in the cultivation of cash crops -- the
tree-crop belt in the south and the groundnut and cotton belts in the north--
almost every family grows some of its own food requirements. Only a rela-
tively small proportion of the food crops enters commercial trade for shipment
to other areas, the principal flow of such trade being from the food crop belt
in the middle of the country to the urban centers and other food deficit areas
of the south.
1/   See the Nigeria Agricultural Sector Review (Report 2181-UNI) for a full
description.



27.       Agricultural development in Nigeria is taking place against a
background of rapid development in the non-agricultural sectors and rising
standards of education, both of which contrast sharply with the poor returns
to labor from traditional agriculture. This has encouraged the drift of young
people away fr-m rural areas, and has resulted in a sharp rise in wage rates
for hired labor. In the long run, a prosperous agricultural sector capable of
reducing this drift can be achieved only through the application of advanced
farming techniques, which are more appropriate to larger farming units,whether
operated by groups or individuals. Efforts to encourage such farm development
should complement support for smallholders.
28.       Government is aware of the need to improve performance in the agri-
cultural sector. In the revised Third National Development Plan (1975-80), an
amount of US$4.8 billion, seven percent of the total, was earmarked for the
sector to support a targeted growth rate of five percent. The actual level of
expenditure has been lower, however, as a result of fiscal-constraints, and
growth is estimated at only about one percent per annum. The Plan included
development of several major river basins for irrigation, dissemination of
modern farming techniques to smallholders, improved input distribution and
marketing services, and support for various integrated development projects.
Rural development programs along these lines were promoted with complementary
investments in secondary and feeder roads, rural electrification, health, and
other social services. The Fourth National Development Plan, currently in
preparation, is expected to have the same basic focus.
29.       The Governmeit's main objective in the short-term is to improve
the domestic price stability of basic food crops and to ensure adequate food
supplies for the rapidly expanding urban centers. Against this background,
Government's long term objectives are to create a prosperous and efficient
agricultural sector that will restrain the population drift to urban centers,
and revive the role of Nigeria as an exporter of agricultural produce.
Success in this endeavor will be contingent, however, upon overcoming a number
of development constraints in the sector.
Development Constraints
30.       Undoubtedly, one of the principal constraints is the lack of effec-
tive agricultural support services. Transport of produce is hampered by lack
of feeder roads. Many farmers have to travel long distances to obtain basic
farm inputs which, in many cases, are in irregular supply. Extension services
are generally deficient, and the new technologies that are available are not
reaching farmers in remote rural areas. Also, a greater effort is required,
particularly by the agricultural research institutions, to improve the analysis
of technical, economic, and financial aspects of farming innovations, and
adapt them to the different socio-ecological conditions of Nigeria.
31.       Agricultural support services remain almost entirely in the hands
of the public sector, and present government subsidy policies have served
to remove commercial incentives for private sector participation in the
distribution of fertilizers and other basic farm inputs. While, during a
period of high liquidity, it may have been possible to finance a high level



- 9 -
of subsidies as an instrument for redistributing oil revenues to the rural
sector and for encouraging the adoption of unfamiliar and possibly risky
technologies, there is a need to reassess this policy in the light of the
current high demand for farm inputs.   The implications of the Government's
subsidy policy for the long term growth of the agricultural sector have been
discussed with the Government on a number of occasions, most extensively
within the context of a sector review mission in 1978. The report of the
mission has been distributed to the Executive Directors.  While we believe
that the Government generally shares the views of the Bank on the principle
at issue, it is likely to adopt a cautious and gradual approach to the
phasing-out of input subsidies. The Bank will intensify its dialogue with
the Government this year in relation to the Kaduna and Bauchi Agriculture
Development Projects, now in final stages of appraisal, which contains an
important and substantial fertilizer component.
32.       It would appear that, given the size of Nigeria's development
program, Government should divest itself progressively of responsibilities
for marketing both farm inputs and agricultural produce such as cocoa, cotton
and maize, since this function can be handled more efficiently by private
enterprise. This would require the creation of an economic framework appro-
priate to profitable intervention of private entrepreneurs in the agriculture
service sector and, in that context, a redefinition of the role of federal and
state agricultural ministries and marketing boards.
33.       The Federal Government is generally aware of the above constraints
and also of the need for further improvement in planning and executive
capabilities at both federal and state levels. There is a dearth of tech-
nical and managerial personnel at all levels, requiring a greater rationali-
zation of the responsibilities of public agencies, and a much closer coordina-
ion of the activities of such agencies, if the effectiveness of available
manpower is to be maximized.
Bank Role and Sector Lending Strategy
34.       Since 1971, the Bank has approved loans for seventeen agricultural
projects in Nigeria. Of these projects, one relates to livestock, one to
forestry, one to management training, seven to the development of specific
crops (oil palm, cocoa, and rice), while the remaining seven relate to the
general agricultural development of target areas, and are similar in struc-
ture to the proposed project. Among this latter group, the three northern
projects (Loans 1092, 1099, and 1164-UNI) are now well established, and their
success has demonstrated the advantage of planned agricultural development,
implemented under a reformed administrative structure allowing overall state
control while affording management full day-to-day operational autonomy.
Government and the Bank are generally satisfied with the progress of these
projects and the approach adopted. Both Federal and state governments are
anxious to replicate this project structure in other states of the Federa-
tion and to expand it on a state-wide basis. The proposed Kaduna and Bauchi
State Agricultural Development Projects, which have been appraised and
are tentatively scheduled for negotiations in FY81, would be the first



- 10 -
state-wide projects. There is also interest in increasing the role of the
commercial agricultural sector in line with the approach pursued by these
projects. In this respect, they are acting as catalysts of change on
a much wider basis than was initially envisaged.
35.       In addition to the continuing dialogue on agricultural subsidies,
the Bank's agricultural development projects also address and contribute to
resolving other critical issues and bottlenecks to sector growth. Among
these issues is the procurement and distribution of farm inputs which, being
centralized at the federal level, results in inefficient supply to farmers.
Another important issue is the failure of the Nigerian Agricultural and
Cooperative Bank (NACB) so far to provide a viable framework for the develop-
ment of smallholder and commercial farm credit. Yet another shortcoming is
the inadequacy of physical infrastructure such as feeder roads. The existing
and proposed Bank-assisted agricultural development projects would contribute
to establishing better systems for procurement and distribution of farm
inputs, credit, and physical infrastructure as an integrated minimum develop-
ment package.
36.       The most critical physical constraint facing Nigerian agriculture
today, however, is the lack of experienced manpower at the managerial,
administrative, and technical levels to plan and implement development
programs. The short-term solution to this problem adopted in Bank-supported
projects is international recruitment and the establishment of special
project management units. However, a long-term solution must necessarily
involve the training of Nigerian management staff. In this respect, the
Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute, for which a loan was
approved by the Executive Directors on June 5, 1979 is expected to play a
major role. Furthermore, training components are included in all Bank-
assisted projects including the proposed Ekiti-Akoto Project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       The proposed project was first identified by a Bank mission visiting
Ondo State in October 1976. Following field studies and discussions with both
State and Federal officials, full agreement was reached on a project concept
and schedule for project preparation. Subsequently, the Federal Government
financed a team of consultants to prepare a feasibility study which, with
the assistance of counterparts from the Federal and State Governments, was
completed in August 1978. The project was appraised by the Bank in November
1978 and the Staff Appraisal Report (2514-UNI) is being circulated separately
to the Executive Directors.  Negotiations with the Nigerian authorities on
the proposed loan were completed on November 16, 1979. Supplementary data
on the project is to be found in Annex III.



- 11 -
Project Objective
38.       The principal objective of the project is to raise the productivity
and, hence, the incomes of an estimated 100,000 farm families located in the
Ekiti-Akoko zone of Ondo State. The area, about one quarter of Ondo State,
includes five local government areas north of the cocoa belt in the derived
savannah zone. The area is utilized primarily for subsistence food crop
production though tree crops, mainly cocoa, constitute an important source of
cash income to the southern part. The typical farmer cultivates on average
2.5 hectares, which he holds under the traditional land tenure system. From
small-holdings of this size, farm families in the project area derive an
income equivalent to US$170 per capita which places them below the absolute
poverty threshold of US$180 for rural Nigeria. The improved farming practices
to be introduced by the project affords the prospect that farmers may increase
their productivity greatly. However, experience with similar projects
elsewhere in Nigeria indicates that only about 70 percent may seize the
opportunities presented to them during the project period and even these
active participants will apply improved practices to only part of their land.
On that basis it is estimated that average family incomes of an estimated
70,000 participating farmers would be raised some 40 percent in real terms by
the end of the five year project period. This constitutes a major improvement
compared with the present static production performance.
Project Description
39.       The means for accomplishing this goal consists of a package of
services to assist farm and crop development on 40,500 hectares, together
with strategic investment in supporting infrastructure such as feeder and farm
roads and dams. Project implementation would be the responsibility of a
management unit with appropriate technical and administrative staff. The
project concept corresponds closely to that which has been applied successfully
in a number of ongoing Bank projects in Nigeria including the Funtua, Gusau
and Gombe Agricultural Development Projects which are now nearing completion.
The experience gained from these ongoing projects would be directly relevant
to the implementation of the proposed project.
40.       In terms of farm and crop development the project aims to increase
production of both subsistence and cash crops by providing fertilizers,
improved seeds, crop production measures and access to farm credit. A key
element of the project would be to strengthen extension services by raising
the ratio of field staff to farmers from the present low level of 1:4000 to a
more effective level of about 1:500. The extension service would operate from
30 farm service centers to be established throughout the project area. In
addition to general extension advice,a farm management advisory service would
be established to provide technical assistance to those farmers who are
likely to extend their cultivation to group farms and relatively larger farms
of about five hectares.



- 12 -
41.       Past experience shows that the majority of small-scale farmers in
Nigeria are quite conservative in their adherence to traditional farming
practices; only a progressive minority are likely to adopt advanced production
methods. Accordingly, the project is structured in a way that it offers both
a Basic Service Package (BSP) and an Advanced Service Package (ASP). It is
expected that aDout 29,000 ha cultivated by 65,000 farm families would be
directly affected by BSP. The main benefits from this package would accrue
from modest applications of inorganic fertilizers, the use of improved seeds,
increased planting densities and the better control of disease, pests and
weeds. Participants in the ASP, on the other hand, would be encouraged to
adopt a range of more advanced production methods including minimum tillage
technology. This technology, which has been developed with the help of the
International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) and is also being
introduced in the Ilorin and Oyo North Projects, helps to protect the fragile
topsoil from erosion by reducing soil disturbance to a minimum during planting.
Since the large-scale application of minimum tillage farming is a pioneering
effort in Africa, only a minority of ASP farms are expected to adopt this
approach in the first instance. Nevertheless, the eventual aim would be to
promote minimum tillage tested under the project on a larger scale. ASP
practices, effecting about 5,000 farmers, would only cover a relatively
limited area of 11,500 ha which would be developed during the last three years
of the project.
42.       Crop development under the project would include land clearing and
stumping of some 5,000 ha. This would largely be left to the farmer, although
about 1,000 ha would be cleared mechanically by project force account using
road and dam making ma'hinery during the rainy season. Conservation practices
would be encouraged, and in this regard the project's farm management and
planning unit would include a conservation planning capability which would,
inter-alia, advise farmers on selection of good arable areas.
43.       The project would also conduct farm trials to test appropriate
technology and develop farming systems including crop protection techniques.
Improved seeds would be produced both at the project farms and through contract
growers. To ensure better quality seeds the project would introduce, in
conjunction with the State Seed Service, an appropriate inspection and seed
certification system.
44.       The project would encourage poultry production in the area through
the provision of training in poultry management, and assistance in establishing
200 small-scale (500-bird) commercial poultry units operated by individual
farmers. Poultry supplies would be distributed through the farm service
centers and credit would be available to cover start-up costs.
45.       To complement the farm and crop development effort, civil works
would be carried out in providing strategic infrastructure. Some 125 km of
gravel surfaced feeder roads and 375 km of unsurfaced farm roads would be
constructed or improved. Maintenance of these roads would be the respon-
sibility of the respective Local Government Councils (LGCs), whose road



- 13 -
staff would be seconded for a training period to the project unit. The
project would also undertake works to improve rural water supply. At present,
water supply is insufficient and of poor quality in most parts of the area,
especially during the dry season. A scheme to bring water to the large towns
is underway but this scheme does not address the needs of the many smaller and
non-permanent settlements. To provide the necessary data for a long-term
strategy that would ensure the optimum utilization of surface and groundwater
supplies for humans, livestock and limited dry season crop needs the project
would help finance a hydrological survey.  The project would also construct 35
small earth dams to serve semi-permanent farm settlements not covered by
existing services. These dams would include simple filtration systems to
ensure relatively clean water for domestic use. Other civil works include the
provision of housing for project staff and buildings for the project admin-
istration including, in addition to a headquarters complex, 30 new farm
service centers (FSC) conplete with service facilities.
46.       An important component in the project would be the establishment
of a Commercial Services Division to be responsible for the procurement
and distribution of farm inputs. This Division would be established within
EAPMU and would operate on commercial lines so as to facilitate its eventual
transformation into a self-financing input distribution company. The input
supply distribution system will be reviewed within the context of a proposed
Third Cocoa Project and Ondo State may eventually decide to establish a
statewide unit similar to the Agricultural Input Supply Unit (AISU) as in
Oyo State.
47.       Consultant services would be provided (30 man-months) under the
project to assist the project management and the State MIinistry of Agriculture
and Rural Development (IARD) in start-up operations and in preparing plans and
studies in a number of areas including the introduction of new technology,
farm credit, the review of input supplies and distribution practices, the
development of hydrogeological potential for water supplies in the area.
The cost of these short-term consultant services has been estimated at
US$9,000 per man-month, which includes fees, travel and per diem. The Ekiti-
Akoko Project Management Unit (EAPMU) would be responsible for preparing
detailed terms of reference for consultants, all of whom would be appointed
with qualifications, experience and on conditions and terms satisfactory to
the Bank (see Section 2.05 of Project Agreement).
Project Implementation
48.       As far as possible the proposed project structure has been designed
to conform with the State's existing administrative structure; and relevant
State institutions would be fully involved in project implenentation. However,
in view of the need for a very close coordination between various state
institutions and ministries, a semi-autonomous management unit (EAPIIU) would
be established. This would be in line with similar units established for
other Bank-financed agricultural projects. The gazetting of EAPIIU would be a
condition of effectiveness (see Sections 6.01(c) of Loan Agreement and 2.01(c)
of Project Agreement). Furthermore because of the Bank's increasing involve-
ment in the state, including the ongoing Second Cocoa Project (Loan 1045-UNI),
a Forestry Project approved by the Executive Directors last March and a possible



- 14 -
Third Cocoa Project, it is proposed that the overall project policy with
respect to all agricultural projects in Ondo State be guided and coordinated
through an Agricultural Projects Governing Board (APGB). Membership of APGB
would include the Commissioner of MARD (Chairman), the Permanent Secretary and
the Chief Planning Officer of MARD, representatives of the principal state
ministries, a representative of the Federal Ministry of AgricuiLure (FMA) and
five members nominated by the Ondo State governor on recommendation of the
Commissioner of Agriculture. Among the principal functions of APGB would be
to determine common project policy issues, have an overview of a number of
project budgets, ensure common conditions of service for project staff, and
promote coordination and cooperation between state ministries and local
government agencies in matters affecting project implementation. The gazet-
ting of the APGB would be another condition for loan effectiveness (see
Sections 6.01(c) of Loan Agreement and 2.01(e) of Project Agreement). Since it
is envisaged that LGCs would eventually take over some of the project responsi-
bilities, EAPMU would attach special emphasis in developing LGC project
implementation and management capabilities. During project implementation
close liaison would be maintained with LGCs, and in this regard the senior
training officer of EAPMU would develop training programs for LGC staff.
Additionally the project's Engineering Services department would involve LGC
technical staff in the planning, execution and maintenance of its civil work
programs. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that during the fourth
year of project implementation the Federal and State Governments together
with the Bank would review project progress, and would make recommendations
for the future development of the project based upon plans to be drawn up by
the Evaluation Unit of EAPMU in conjunction with the planning unit of APMEPU
(see Section 2.14 of Project Agreement).
49.       Compared to some other states where Bank projects are being imple-
mented Ondo State is relatively well staffed although staff tend to be concen-
trated in major towns. Many of the agricultural assistants are deployed in
the cocoa areas so that some redeployment would be necessary until training
programs for junior staff make up the shortfall. However, there is a shortage
of qualified staff at the senior and middle levels to manage a project of this
type. Recruitment of Nigerian staff for management positions in similar
projects has been disappointing. The project therefore, makes provision for
the international recruitment of key long term personnel at an estimated cost
of about US$7,000 per man/month. On previous occasions, the Bank's own
Agriculture Projects Management Unit for West Africa (APMU) has assisted both
state and Federal governments in the selection and recruitment of interna-
tional staff. However, the increasing number of agricultural projects in
Nigeria and elsewhere make it very difficult for APMU to continue mobilizing
high-quality staff. It has been agreed, therefore, that the Ondo State
Government (ONSG) would engage a consultant firm to recruit project staff.
The signing of a contract with a suitable consulting firm and the appointment
of a project manager and chief accountant would be conditions of loan effec-
tiveness (see Sections 6.01(d) and (e) of the Loan Agreement). In addition,
the Ondo State Government has agreed to take all reasonable steps for the
prompt secondment to EAPMU of appropriate technical and other staff from MANR,
and the five LGCs will transfer their extension and road staff and functions
to EAPMU (see Section 2.04(b) of the Project Agreement). The capabilities of
such staff would be strengthened through training programs to be provided
under the project.



- 15 -
50.       Seasonal production credit for pesticides as well as for improved
seeds and poultry feed would be made available by the project through the
Commercial Services Division of EAPMU. Credit would not be available for
hired labor, nor for fertilizers, unless the prevailing high rates of govern-
ment fertilizer subsidies are substantially reduced. Project credit would be
closely supervised by the extension staff at farm service centers. Seasonal
production credit requirements are likely to be small: estimated at about
US$65 for a 1.5 ha farm under the BSP. Repayments of seasonal credit would be
collected by project staff. Medium-term (5 years) credit would be supplied by
Ondo State Agricultural Credit Corporation (OSACC) for capital farm inputs
such as tractors, farm machinery, maize cribs and poultry sheds. Long-term
credit would be available for land clearing by the project for individual and
group farmers. The administrative capabilities of OSACC would be strengthened
under the project. Two specialists in agricultural credit and cooperatives
would be assigned to OSACC for three years in an operational capacity to be
responsible for guiding and training OSACC staff, and scholarships would be
available under the project to provide additional training in agricultural
finance and accounting. At present a shortage of loanable funds and financial
expertise and an inadequate interest rate mark-up constrain its contribution
to the agricultural sector, but OSACC is expected to be a suitable vehicle for
medium-term project credit if these deficiencies are overcome. It was agreed
during negotiations that funds sufficient for project medium term credit
requirements (equivalent to US$2.5 million) would be made available to OSACC
by Ondo State Government in the event OSACC was unable to raise these funds
from other sources (see Section 2.03(b) of Project Agreement). In addition,
OSACC would retain repayments of long term credit for li.nd clearing to supple-
ment its equity. The Bank would not provide financing for OSACC.
51.       Seasonal loans would bear a minimum interest rate of 10 percent.
This is higher than prevailing interest rates, but lower than the 15 percent
annual inflation rate projected for the project period. Under these condi-
tions, interest rates must be considered subsidized. Government continues to
view its concessionary interest rate as a means to reduce the farmer's produc-
tion costs and, hence, encourage agricultural investment especially by small-
scale and low income farmers such as constitute the target group of the
proposed project. Nevertheless, during the ongoing dialogue on this and other
issues (para. 35), the Bank has met with some success in encouraging the
Government to adopt more realistic interest rates which would, inter alia,
allow for an adequate spread for the lending institutions, and, at the same
time, lead toward positive interest rates. On an individual project basis,
some progress has been achieved. In the case of the proposed project, interest
rates for short term production credit would be 10 percent or 2-1/2 percent
above the NACB rate, whichever is higher (see Schedule 2 of the Project
Agreement). This formula allows for automatic adjustment in the event of any
significant general upward adjustment of the Nigerian interest rate structure.
Furthermore, since the Bank is now exploring with Government avenues to
support future agricultural projects, in which by their nature, credit, and
credit institutions would play a central role, these projects are expected to
provide a better forum to obtain changes in agricultural interest rates within
the framework of the country's overall monetary policy.



- 16 -
Project Costs
52.       Total project costs during the five year development period 1980-85
are estimated at US$80.5 million (including US$4.5 million of taxes and
duties) of which US$32.5 million or 40 percent would be foreign exchange
costs. A breakdown of costs by major expenditure categories is given in the
Loan and Project Summary. Costs include an allowance for physical contingen-
cies equal to 5 percent of base costs for all items, except for civil works
for which the allowance is 10 percent. Price contingencies for local con-
struction and operating costs are estimated at 15 percent and for local
salaries and at 7 percent for labor employed directly by the project. Price
contingencies for foreign costs allow for annual rates of inflation of 9
percent in 1980, 8 percent in 1981 and 7 percent thereafter. On the basis of
these considerations, total contingencies are estimated at 39 percent of base
costs.
Project Financing
53.       The proposed loan of US$32.5 million would finance 43 percent of
project cost net of tax and would be equivalent to the foreign exchange
cost of the project. The Borrower would relend the full loan amount to the
Ondo State Government on the same terms and conditions as the Banl loan. The
foreign exchange risk would be carried by the Federal Government. The
signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and the Ondo State
Government would be a condition of loan effectiveness (see Section 6.01(a) of
Loan Agreement). Of the US$48.0 million remaining project cost, the Federal
Government would fin;nce US$20.2 million and the Ondo State Government would
finance the other USU27.8 million. Their contribution to gross project cost,
therefore, would amount to 25 percent and 35 percent, respectively.
54.       In order to ensure timely and adequate provision of counterpart
funding, agreement was obtained during negotiations that: (a) as a
condition of loan effectiveness, a commercial bank account be opened for the
EAPIIU with an initial deposit of N2.0 million (see Section 6.01(b) of Loan
Agreement); (b) the Bank would disburse funds directly to EAPMU's commercial
bank account; (c) EAPMU would submit to the Federal Government, the State
Government and to the Bank, at least 4 months prior to the beginning of
each fiscal year, an annual budget proposal for the project; (d) both the FGN
and the ONSG provide their quarterly contribution to the project at least 3
months in advance in accordance with the approved annual budget; (e) the ONSG
extends its guarantee to any overdrafts drawn by the EAPMU up to an equivalent
of six months project expenditures requirements; (f) Government subventions to
cover subsidies on farm inputs for the project be paid to EAPMIU no later than
September of the year prior to procurement of the inputs; and g) EAPMIU's
audited accounts be submitted to the Bank within four months after each fiscal
year together with a statement from the auditor certifying that Bank funds had
been used for their intended purpose. These understandings, which reflect
those reached with the Nigerian authorities in the Bida, Ilorin, and Forestry
Projects, are reflected in Sections 2.03, 2.11 and 3.02 of the Project Agree-
rient .



- 17 -
Cost Recovery
55.       Present Government policy is to provide substantial subsidies for
many farm inputs; subsidy rates in the case of fertilizers amount to about
75 percent of cost. While recognizing the Government's existing subsidy
policies, efforts would be made to recover the full remaining costs for
project inputs and services. During negotiations assurances were obtained
that all farm inputs, including land clearing, would be provided at charges
sufficient to recover costs except in those instances where an official
subsidy is applied (see Section 2.11(b) of Project Agreement).
Procurement
56.       Contracts for fertilizers, chemicals, vehicles, tractors and heavy
equipment valued at US$100,000 or more would be procured through international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. The aggregate cost
of such items of procurement is estimated at about US$18.7 million net of
contingencies. Domestically manufactured goods procured under international
competitive bidding would be allowed 15 percent preference or the applicable
import duty, whichever is lower, for the purpose of bid evaluation. Local
competitive bidding in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank
would be employed for contracts over US$30,000 but less than US$100,000. For
contracts of US$30,000 or less local competitive shopping would be employed.
Experience with similar projects shows that contracts for houses, stores,
buildings (having an estimated aggregate value of about US$11.7 million)
would not be-attractive to foreign contractors because of the small size of
individual contracts, competitiveness of local contractors and the dispersed
location of the works. Such contracts would therefore be awarded on the basis
of local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Bank. The construction of feeder roads and dams would be undertaken by the
project on force account due to a continuing shortage of dependable contractors
who could undertake this type of work. The total value of these items is
estimated at US$7.5 million. The services of consultants and internationally
recruited staff (estimated at US$5.7 million) would be obtained in accordance
with procedures accceptable to the Bank.
57.       Some other Bank-financed agricultural development projects are
encountering difficulties in the procurement of items by centralized public
sector agencies. The problems are particularly acute in the area of fertilizer,
where the Federal Ministry of Agriculture acts as the sole official importer
and distributor. To ensure the timely delivery of fertilizer, it was agreed
in connection with the Bida and Ilorin Agricultural Development projects that
the procurement of fertilizer for these and for all other Bank-financed
agriculture projects would be handled by the Government separately from their
other fertilizer procurement. It was further agreed that the procurement of
fertilizer for all Bank-assisted projects in the aggregate would be subject to
international competitive bidding in accordance with an agreed timetable which
would be monitored jointly by the Bank and the Government with a view to
identifying and removing any possible causes for slippage. This procurement
process would also apply to the Ekiti-Akoko project and be subject to review
after two years to determine its efficacy (see Section 2.03(b) of Loan Agree-
ment).



- 18 -
Disbursements
58.       It is anticipated that the proposed loan would be disbursed during
the period 1981-85. Disbursement would be made against 100 percent of
foreign exchange expenditure on vehicles, equipment, farm input- and the
salaries of internationally recruited staff and consultants. Where items are
locally procured, disbursement would be made against a lower proportion of
costs -- 90 percent in the case of vehicles and equipment, and 85 percent in
the case of farm inputs. With respect to civil works, disbursement would be
made against 40 percent of total costs. On this basis total disbursements
are estimated at US$7.2 million against vehicles and equipment, US$7.5
million against farm inputs, US$7.8 million against civil works and US$6.7
million against internationally recruited staff, consultants and overseas
training of local staff. An additional provision of US$3.3 million has been
made on an unallocated basis.
Economic Benefits
59.       The overall economic rate of return for the project is estimated at
20 percent. Sensitivity tests show that the rate of return is relatively
insensitive to adverse variations in the basic assumptions. The farmer
adoption rate is probably the major area of risk since, given the nature of
smallholder farming, farmer response is difficult to predict with accuracy.
However, even if farmer adoption rates are only 60 percent of targeted levels
the project would remain viable. Economic costs would have to rise by about
22 percent or benefits would have to fall by about 18 percent (or some combin-
ation of the two) in order for the rate of return to fall below the estimated
11 percent opportunity cost of capital.
60.       The principal benefits of the project would be to increase by some
40 percent the productivity and real incomes of an estimated 70,000 farm
families in the project area. This is expected to have a major beneficial
effect upon the nutritional standards of a population whose present incomes of
US$170 per capita is below the absolute poverty threshold of US$180 for rural
Nigeria. Although a further 30,000 farm families in the project area may not
be actively receptive to the package of production services offered by the
project they would benefit, nevertheless, from an improvement in general
infrastructure such as feeder roads and rural water supply.
61.       It is expected that, at full development, participating farms would
require an additional 8,300 man-years labor per year. Most of this increase
would be met by increased farm family employment, although some hired labor
either on permanent or part-time basis would also be required. A general
increase of economic activity in the project area would also help to create
some non-farm employment in related sectors. It is estimated that at full
development the project would result in some US$9.6 million of net annual
foreign exchange savings, on the assumption that cereal equivalents would
otherwise have been imported to make up for shortfalls in crop production.



- 19 -
62.       Among the non-quantifiable benefits of the project are the improve-
ment of rural water supplies, training of technical staff and the development
of related State institutions including the LGCs. Mlore effective state insti-
tutions would facilitate the planning and implementation of projects and set
the stage for a future state-wide rural development program. The project
would also demonstrate the viability of commercial development of support
services and the benefits of decentralized public sector operations, all of
which may have a far-reaching impact upon the broader policies and programs of
the Government in the agricultural sector.
Project Risks
63.       There are no unusual project risks.  Project organization is
structured within the state's existing agricultural zonal administration and
would be strengthened by filling key posts with experienced personnel who
would manage the project and train their replacements. Failure to achieve
anticipated yield levels at full development, especially for the Advanced
Services Package is a potential risk. However, the project's Basic Service
Package is fairly simple, well-tested both at the research station and farm
level and it is reasonable to expect that production and yields will meet the
levels anticipated. For the smaller Advanced Services Package, risks are
mainly confined to the initial stages, when farmers may be somewhat hesitant
to accept new technologies. However, in the long run the importance of
providing a stable farming system which could help check the serious
deterioration of the savanna areas is so vital that it far outweighs asso-
ciated risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORIrY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federal Republic of Nigeria and
the Bank and the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Ondo Sta.:e
of Nigeria, the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Ccction
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, would be distributed to the Executt;.-
Directors separately.
65.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III o- Annex
III of this Report. Conditions of loan effecti-veness are (a) signin- o0 a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and Ondo State; (b) promulgation
by Ondo State in the Official Gazette of a notice establishing the Ekiti-Akoko
Project Management Unit (EAPMU) and the Agricultural Projects Governing Board
(APGB) in a form and with powers and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank;
and (c) the appointment of a project manager and chief accountant and the
signing of a contract for the provision of key staff between a firm of consul-
tants acceptable to the Bank and Ondo state; and (d) opening of a commercial
bank account for EAPMU with an initial deposit of 92.0 million by the Bor-
rower and Ondo state.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
May 7, 1980
Washington, D.C.



-21-                                                ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
NICGERA - SOCIAL tnDICATORS DATA SHEET
REEERENCZ CROUPS (60 tS-S0 Ai;tRACES
LAND      ( CTHOUS^D SO. t.)                 NIGZ1IA S- IsT RSCENT ESTIt-E) 
TOSAL     HU     923.8                                                    SAME        SAME     4EXT HICKER
AGRICULTUaAL    4,464 . iNDs PICENT                                    CEOCRAPNIC   ISCOKE        L'1CO0
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTLMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    CROUP /a
GNP PER CAP?TA (Uss)                 150.0        240.0     560.0           306.1       467.5      1097.7
ENERGY CONSUX?TICN P5R CAPITA
(KILOGE.MS OF COAL -OUIVALZ.YT)     34.0        52.0       94.0            80.6      262.1        730.7
POPULATION ANO VITAL SATTS-TCS
POPULASION l      U0  (M1LI_  NS)   51.6        66.2       J9.0
URlAN POPULATION (PERCENS or TOTAL) 13.0         16.3      18.1             17.1       24.;        *9.0
POPUtLAtIO PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEMA 2000 (MItuIONS)                      152.0
STATIONAMY POPUTATION 0VILLTONS)                        435.0
EUM  STATIONARY POPU1ATtON IS REACHED                  2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. tR4.                      56.0        72.0       86.0            18.4        45.3        44.6
PZR SQ. KM6. ACaCCULTIRAL WND    125.0        152.0     177.0            50.J       149.0       140.7
POPULATION ACE STRUCr RE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.7        44.8       46.0            44.1        45.2        41.3
15-64 YRS.    .                    54.1        53.0       52.0            52.9   _   51.9         55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   1.2         2.2        2.0             2.8         2.8         3.5
POPULATIO  CGROWTHO PATE (PERCENT)                                             -
TOTAL                              2.4          2.5       2.6             2.7         2.7         2.4
URI"AN                              .0         4.7        4.6             5.7        4.3          4.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THCUSAND)     52.0         51.0      50.0            46.3        39.4        31.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER 7HOCSAND)     25.0         21.0      18.0             17.2       11.7         9.2
GROSS REPROOUCTION RAE                 ..         3.3       3.4             3.1         2.7         2.2
FAhKLY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..         7.6       33.2
USERS (PERCENT OF IARRIID WOKEIN)    ..          ..        ..               ..       13.2        34.7
tOOD AND VT.T.ITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          98.9        102.0      91.0            94.3        99.6       104.4
pER CAhITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREHENTS)                   91.Ot        89.0      88.0            89.5       94.7        105.0
PMOTEINS (CR"YS PER OAY)          50.0fi      59.9       46.3            53.8        54.3        64.4
OF WHIICH A:L'A  AND P9SE         9.7        16.3       9.3            17.9        17.4        23.5
CElLD (ACES 1-4) KCRTALITY RATE     38.0         33.0      24.0            22.3        11.4         S.6
iEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    39.0        43.0       48.0            47.0        54.7        60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..        154.01       ..               ..       68.1        46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE 'NATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           .         ..            20.3       34.4         60.8
URBSAN                              *.. .                                53.9        57.9        75.7
1174 L.                                          .         ..            10.1       21.2        40.0
ACCESS TO EXCEETA tISPOSAL (PERCE!NT
OF POPU..TION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..        ..            22.5       40.8         46.0
UR3AM                               ..           ..        ..            62.5       71.3         46.0
RURAL                               *-           *-        *             13.9       27.7         22.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICI-A         32000.0     20530.0  14810.0           17424.7     67q9.4       2262.4
POFULATICN PER I.RSINC PERO0Ot    6020.0/1f    220.0    3210.0           2506.6      1522.1      1195.4
POPULATION PER OSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2100.0/b    2220.0    1170.0            502.3      726.5        453.4
URBAN                               ..       400.0     290.0            201.4      272.7        253.1
U1.AL                               ..    IJ450.0    4140.0            t403.6     1404.4       2732.4
AOHSSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..        ..            23.4        27.5        22.1
HOUSI'YC
A!;ERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..           ..        .              4.9        5 4          5.3
URIIAN                              .            ..       4.7             4.9        t.1          5.2
8U .                                ..           ..        ..             5.5        5.5          5.4
AVERACE %L74BtR OF PERSONt PER. ROOK
TOTAL                               ...                     .               ..                     .9
URBAN                              3.0           *-       2.2              ..          ..         1.6
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..              ..         ..         2.5
ACCESS DO ELZCT1CZT (PERCINT
OF DWE'OLLVCS)
TOTAL                             81.0           ..        ..              ..       28.1        50.0
UR3AN                             81.3           .      42.4               ..       43.1         7
RIUI                                ..           .         ..              ..        9.9         11.:



-22-                                         ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
t1tGERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NIGERIAX                  REFELENCE GROUPS (ADjUS.ED AE3aACES
- MOST R.ECENT EST,I"ATE)
SWE         SA24E    NE.= HICaER
ttST RECENT     CEOGRAPHIC    DINCOME      LNCOME
1960 lb     1970 lb ESTIMATE lb      REGION ,c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT tATIOS
RSIMARY:    TOTAL                 36.0        34.0       49.0            59.0       82.7        102.5
MALE                 46.0        43.0       59.0            64.2       87.3        108.6
FEAML                27.0        25.0       39.0            44.2       75.8         97.1
SECOIDMRT:  TOTAL                  3.0         4.0       10.0             9.0       21.4         33.5
MALE                  4.0         6.0       14.0            12.0       33.0         38.4
MEHALE                1.0         3.0        7.0             4.4       15.5         30.7
VOCATtONAL ENROL. (S Of SECONDARY)   5.0          8.5       3.8/i           7.0        9.8         11.5
PU?IL-TYACUK RATIO
PRIMARY                           30.0        34.0       34.0            42.2       34.1         35.J
SECONDARY                         19.0        21.0       25.0            22.9       23.4         72.9
AMT LITEACY tATE (PERCENT)          15.0           ..        ..            20.8       54.0         64.0
COKSUttPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THfOUSA1D
POPULATION                         0.7          1.0       2.1             4.0        9.3         13.5
RADIO CSCEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         4.0        23.0       79.0            44.3       76.9        122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.2         1.4        1.8             2.9       13.5         38.3
REWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCOLATION PER
THOUSAND POPUIATION                  S.O         5.0        9.0             5.6       18.3         40.0
CDLNA A.Y;UAL ATmENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..        0.5             0.4         2.5         3.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TROUSANDS)    18300.0/f   25600.0   27700.0
PrfALE (PERCENT)                  41.3        40.6      40.2             31.9       29.2        25.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             70.8        62.1       56.0            77.6       62.7         43.5
IDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 10.4        13.8       18.0             7.9       11.9        21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               42.7        40.5       39.1            40.8       37.1         33.5
MALE                                50.9        4U.8       47.4            53.9        48.8        48.0
FEMALE                              34.8         32.4      31.0            25.6        20.4        16.8
ZCONOHIC DEPNDENCY RATIO               1.4/f        1.2       1.4             1.2         1.4         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
sCEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF ROUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..               ..       15.2         20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..        ..               ..       48.2         52.1
WWIEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..               ..        6.3          3.9
WVEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..        ..               ..       16.3         12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      352.0           187.6      241.3       270.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      156.0            96.8      136.6        183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEveL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..     286.0           138.4      179.7       282.5
RURAL                               ..          ..      95.0             71.0      103.7       248.9
ISTIMATED POPULATION SELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URJAN                               ..          ..        ..             34.5       24.8        20.5
RURAL                               ..          ..      27.0             48.7       37.5        35.3
Not available
Noc applicable.
WTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-deighted geomecric means, excluding the extreme
velues of the Indicator and the mort populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
And 1971; and for Most Recent 1stiz.ate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sa.hra;  /d  Lower M:iddle Ineome (5281-550 per cspita, 1976);  Ie  Intermediate Middle
*eoee (5551-1135 per capital 7976);  /f  1963;   Js  1961-63;   /h  Including ex-nor:h Cameroons under
British admtnistration;   /1  certain fteLds of study previously classifted uLder other second level edu-
cation of a vocatieoal of technical nature are now reported under general *ducaci.)n;   I   1965-66 average.
Most Recent Estimate of CGP per capita is for 1976.
August, 1979



ANNE I
-23-                                                                       Page 3 of 5
SIFPNITIOPO. OF  T0N51.lyhCAIO9S
Note., !Alth-oh tChe data ar  drawn frow srngenerally )udg.d tf,e .ost a,anh.rttatinn and -11la1l. it sh-id also ha noted that the- ea  not ha Inter-
Rationally n-parabla b...... of tha lack of standa'di-ad definitions ced con-apto used by differ..ntconr Es  n cli                   Ctn h. data.  Th. data se..netes.
anafuI to deacribe order, ofieglu ..idi.te. treds, ad oharactari.a nartain major dtff ..a... btee.o.nrls
Tha  adjusted group avaren_ for each indicat.or ar  popuietion-wightsd g.eetr!c  -eans. encludle  the entrer   -aves of tha indicator and th. soar
pop.Larad conr._easq..P.  Ccor-r0  cutrr toorn  rho indictorsC depends on avallhtlft, of darn nod is no, -ntemn   Don to lack of data.
troop aaa    for rapita1 S-pi-oil, Sap-rter. an d indIc-tor. of .....a to cater and .-crta dtspoaai. h...ln    inconER-   dia-rihtion, and po-rty ara
simple. popuistioswajoh-d go,,-cic,oea-s,th..t the  -1c-nalo  of ant,-eonua
,g AXE  (thousand sq-.kh)                                                                 'ouain  a   optal hd-tonal  urban. an,drua  -. Ppuno   tt
Tnol   't.n  s-fa   noon comprisIng  ut,  Cer. *1 Inland VOte-s                        orhan, adC ural) d;Ivdnd by their~ r-pativa nuber n  hositlbada
Aelutrl- Mfoat rcant asinteo  arslta- . . urnS used temporarily                     avial   npbi R d Private genterl and:p,i: tad  optl   do-
orpannatyWfCcos,psue._akat and  .t.h.tcD gardens or to                                   habilitation, centers.  ifnia are .atabihabenta p.racmntnly ataffad by
lie fallow                                                                              at I ..st one physician.. ,sta'bliabmants providlng principally ...ntodin1
cane are not Iniu1ded.       rOal hosPitals. ho-ever   includa health and ..di-
op, peg C 'yrt  (lii  - GNP pnr capita .atimanes at cu-rrn  market prican.                  c.I    -.C.r not permanently staff.d by a physlicin (but by a madical or-
ceclnd  psm  cneso  mathod as World Benck Atlas (1975-77 beasis);                   L satent, nesmidwif .. etc.) which off-r ia-patient acon d.tion and
1960, 1570. and 1971 data,                                                              provide a limited range of noialfcilia
Admi.aiona per hospital bed - Totial ..umber of admissione to or dSis.hargea
VEROf COtfCffTIOP PER CAPITA - AncU.1 cons..mPtion of . Cama rcal eneray                    from bospitals div,ided by the samb., of bade.
..nel sd Jign-t,C pnoe,ntua  cPdtyd-o-. nuclear and gao-
tha,rmol a1.ctricity) in kilogram  of  oal equivalet per Capita.                    HfOISloff
ANDf.Tit  Vm ITAL. STATISTICS                                                         1  ..hl    .         t        rhth!                                igq.t
Total rulntioc. oldyu  tmllics)- An of July 1; if not avilabla.                           and thei mEC     meals.I.  A hoarder or 1oda  may or nay not he inrludad in
averageof iccend-yer .stjbCact. ; i960  1970, cd 1917 data,                        the ho...eha1d for eattclproe. Stetistical definitions of hou..-
Urban eoeulatlcnIporcact. o.f tutal) -Rahio of urban to total popule-                 hold vary.
Cio   iion  definitione of urban ooas say affot c-ompaability                 Av!tano nunher ofpesos  n room    toal rben  and rune.  - Averegs se
of data-3  a    .og .outries,                                                           her ofprosprtr           n I E-_all.  coe .sd rural  coutdcneto
PoI  aindnity                                                                             d.ellings ,raspeci-lvo.  Dwallinga enClud. ..s-permannt structures ad
Pe    n.b.     I-year population par square kilomatar (if0 h.bcta...s)           .norcupled Parts.
of total area.                                                  konese~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A_.  to electric ity  ....c.ntofdois-ttl,urban. end rural -
Per toal -e%ariculture land - Computed as above for agriculturAl lend                    Convetional  dwelig  wt  ectricity inliigqatraspcnae
oly,                                                                                   of total, urban, and rural d.rllings raspeotively.
Pwnlaion age st,uctuo  (pe....nt) -Cide  (0-1A years). working-use
(15-64 Yearo). an irtied(6yer  and over  as percentagea of mid-                    EDUCATION
Yma popula tion                                                                      Adl,tnd anoletrunnya
.Pouletios nronth rate (porcent) -t tota, and urban - Comp.auod unnu.l                  Primary sc'ho-l-total   -Jd final  - Total and female enrollment nf all .faS
gr-th rtate  of tonal and urbac -d-.... populations for 1950-60,                        at thetprimary 1-ce  as prcct- o  ofrpoti-e1y  primary school-eta
1960-If  an"d 10-.pouaIons; normallirudccidoe  ae  6-il1 yeano bufajnd  o
Crude biorth rate (par thousan d) - A-Ool liv  births per thousan.d of                    difeen  intho of Prieoy education;  o- tcoutryies wit'h'unlernal adc-
mid-year population; too-y.ur atithmetiic  -Coagee endingR in 1960 and                  cation enrollment may oc-ood100 p-csnticsor  som  pupila are below on
1910 end five-year ...eroge ending in 1975 far moat recent enniset..                    chove the official schoolIag.
Crude death rate (Pat th-uund) -Accuol doh  pa h           ouado i-                     Secon.dary school -total~ and  -.I.ae   Coeputed as  bhon; secondary aduce
ysrPcpln ;tcya   cc             t ii avrges  oudig in 1960 and 1970                 riorqie&tPeu   cryuso   upyrovd prteary Instruction; pro-
andfive-yar average  ndIng in 1975  o  en tracn   simt,iden  eneal orcoo.tlocutI r  oahn  training intrruCti... for pupils
Gro.n rerdci- rCot.-koA-go nunb.  of  o-ghcnrsawcnanCiii mar                               -u-Ily of 12 00 17 yore of a .; currospond.nc. courses ars gonerstaly
in bar nomal noproduitive priud  If ohs aeprelcc   pr....  age-                          -acld.d.
specific fertility rat,;caalyIflo-year  evaan   nding En 1960,                        Vocati .Ioa   nuletcr              f   ...o....y  V- octioEl .    n. itt.nIn
l.9f0. and 1971.                                                 dude~~.  t:sRcbn Es, cd-`  co,orohe-rcnmaoich operate indopend.atly
Psalm  Plannina -ac    ntv .sousI  tcsnd)-All   namberI                f                  orusd rpstaco   o   o'nd ry i-etituti-OO.
a,cceptors of birth-ctrol devi..e une         Co.ce  ofntIna  fmil                 P.nll-oC ..h.-  aai-riuy    nd sc-rid-y - Total students eorolled iER
placates pregran.                                                                       primery end necociry levels divided  bycunbers of teac.hers in tot  ers
Family nanln-uer   Coro  or tanied wmn    Per.cncag  of                                  spondi.g lo-1a.
eaeris  wome  of cild-harngag  (15-44 years) who use birth-iontro1             Adult literc.-at               t)rcn   - Lut.rste socts )able io roand and -its)a
devicas to nIl married wone  in  -an  aga gnoup.                                        a P- ...otago of tocul ad-..  population aged 11 years and over.
POOh AND0 sUTRIT1Iff                                                                   CONSUMqPTION
Sedan offood podui-ic   P"r capita (1970-100) - loden nub.r of par                                                                     P.....cc   va   ouso    ouato)-yanoe  cars .c.ompr. te  ntr crs,YC
apit! anua  prduction of all food Comoditio.                                         eatn   ls t    hou eght yocccc; ccclud . ambulances, hearses and mlitar
Ps   aiosrly of Calories (percoto  rni .mes             ...omputd from          vehicls..
amar dy.euvl        fntfo   upisaalbei   onr   e  cpta I...rclor  (e  thonac popultion)- -All  typo  o  reciver  (nrdo
pe   a.Available supplies coneprins donentic productio.tpre les                 bodcsst  gnrlpulcpr thcedofppltIn                               Mnlue   nieensad
aeporta. and Changes in stock.  110t supplies ..clude animal feed. aseda.             reevesi          -cutnio  sod in y-rShe   elinottion of radio sets wan in,
quantities used in food procni..       od  ose   ndistribution    Oe-                  ffnC dtaforrecetYeasnyntb C             C     omparabl.e sice meat inutri.e
q.irtmnts were  htimatad by rhO based on physIcogical Rends for nor-                  abolishe-d Icol
el activty adhat   -celein   ov ometcu1temperatur,body                               TV recrivors (part t...u.ad p pul.ti.n) -TV reivrfor brnadcaet to g.nert
yeighte. ag  ad  o  distibutions of poyulanion od allowing 10 per-                      public per thnunu.nd Poyclution; ...1,dos unlitensd  Vrci ERsi  tocO-
coast far caste at hous.ehold level.                                                    tcies and ic  . yea sohen r.aiutrution of TV sets was in ef fect.
Pan casin  supply  f protein(snugs., day) - ?vtein Content of per                                  . -saa   icuain(e  thousan.d population) - Shone tha overag  .locole-
capita ne  supply of fon  pr day.  Net supply of food in defined as                      io  of      . "diygnrlictoeu  cERuao"    eie   s      eidclp
above.  taquire..nts for all Cout nesalse  by CIDA provide fsr                          catv- devoted ptlrvl  to r corig genra -1    n.  It is' .onsidered to
minima  lwac  of 60 grams of totl Iprotein, per day and 20 grams                     be "daily" if itapyps-satlrau fou  tim.es a. kas.
of animal and pulse protein, of whI.h 10 dooms should bel aisul .prortie.            Cic...s. annua  aCtend-cc  per capita  or your - Pad on the nuber of tickets
These standards am  lo-n  then th... of 75 gRams ofto.tlprotei  and                     sold during the year, includIn        aisln  to drias-in ninea  ad sohble
23 grams of aonial protein. asen       -rge for the .Cold. propose.d by                 unt.
P00,1 In  Cth  Tid World Pond Sre.-
Persanco  roeinsuplyico  acno  and pal. s-Protein supply of food            SPtLOYETSt'
derivd  rm,"     maoan.p.s.vgrs  per lap.                                            Total labor fonc   ,thus..nds) - F-on.nicelly activ  pesn..inclding armed
Chld (ann, i-i ennnsltyl rate Leer !. ...sad          A  An.u. IOdath. Per those-          fore   n  uepoe  hot ..I-ludtof   _oue -le   student, etc.  Dlfii1l
end is age group  -4 years. tc children In thIs ags group                               lions 10  erucctrou           rcnot  -rp:,hle..
IIdl*H                                                                                  Alri-uIcur. (ner-ant  -  abor form. in-rig             oetry, hunting and ftshing
Life enooc tuncy at bIrth (yasr)- Arsg  numbe  of year  of life                  u  paroes...tge of total1 labor force.
C maisio  at birch; -s-aly fineyear!: "b aegesnodl i  1960. 1910.                     nity(pret    Labor forc  iv rinig.                   trns.ucino. msnufacourinn and
an.d 1975.                                                                              4elec 'tniny. -oert        gaus     enag    f .tots  labor frE.-
Ifant monno.icy rate (par Chc...and) -Annual deat.hs of infants under                 P.rtc.ption. r... j       oti  _ totol. Inab.an   teu           otal,t ml, and
one yen of ae per  housad aln   Iih                                                fml -la bor  oc  us- yecrtaeto-o   thoircvpro Po pouaIon...
Aces  toso 5cuer(eroc  o  ul hoicn) - totul. urban. and rural -                           heeaeIL(,",a ud)cated Participation r-erfetigeo-o
Number of people (tota.1  urban. and rural) cibh re....n.ble  ccs  to                     tratr    f.eppitu ld bog tine tred.
safa water supply (loolodes trea...d -anf.ce  etror untre atd but                    tnaidendnyrio-aicfppuaon udr15 and 90 and over to
usceteninated eater such as that true prceonetd boreholne, springs.                    thm  labor EuCo- in ad.    rupo   5h-yas
and  ..oit:ry wle  a   ecnrgcu cI:oirE resp`ui-o popuLarc..
Cma. u-ba  tre        ubl iz fou ~nta o  ttedpos   oae  sotnoeOME9f  DISTRIBUifN
than200  oesfromaho.             ma   ecnsdc asbigwthin  0                            ennayo_rvteicr   bn   ncs   n  bind-acived by rtchsa:t 5
sanblaencseof  hathose. In  url aoasresonbleacessouc             pRCen, richest 20 percent. poorest 20 percent.ad poet h  Parct
ply thatth   haeioreshsof thn household do  ot have to                                 cthoushol,.d
eped adiE."ooncIt c  par:t  Ci he day in f-hubin  the fuilyn's
eater neds.                                                                          yST  TARGET GROcPS
Aco... to  -ocrte dlscps-I (Portent of  oplation) -total. u-b.f±... fanstd.syu.~o.t  inceme   - leu_(CIIS_2!L!                                    jta -p     urbhr and rurlE -
rural - Ounher of poopbe (tetai. crier, andrrl  nervd bynnuat                              Ahaciuic Puc-to~ i-cur  ie-o  is nhat Irnoe  ir-o  booc ehlch a m-inia
die:posel as prcantage-o I th,ir r.aeto   opjtOs                 nCret                   OtetiicelIc .adequate dint plus. e...ntie  nonR-food r.qui....... 15 L not
dIsposl nma   Icude thecI...cion end dLup-ol.i sLth or sithact                           affordable.
t-a-iec  of h,,,, crs  adnat-clr     coa-h,s  ytss                                   ttmaer-.ty.yoeryiovn  eelM.                       pr  ait)-  ree  ndrra 
or the  n   fptpidsedselrInetllaIoc.njn    p-vt-  ioc-e  local is cht income lev1 leaa thee one-third
pouai ern  hoican-Populan-u  .liol.isd by  -umber of pr-ticIng                      pee capit.I.r.na          ...ce  .f rye coutry.
physiciona qua11:;ed  -o  a sadirsl    h-o ItcI_usr..ity leval.                      Eietd cpIinbl..2 srj7yalcs    er-.t  - urban and rural 
Pons1.tiy,py~vuccc0 joron  -PncoisdivildaOh  nuebat up                              P...c.or of ppi,lc(rhc d ru-el  ch. en                  hr  asltepo0o
peantic-o, mole and irn l. rd cats  use   ProcIcl nrses e..nd                            "eaiepoo"c-`           arti  er a.C
to...i  so ad SocJIDal hta Pift   n
Ecos.... JAnalysis end ProJ..tioo  ine- mn



ANNEX I
- 24                                                 .,Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%M  constant prices)
US$ Mln.     ,                            1974-77               17               17
GNP at Market Prices           39839         100.0                           7.4               11.3               5.4
Gross Domestic Investment    12119            3Q,4                          30.7                24.5             23.6
Gross National Saving          11101          28.3                          26.3               16.6              17.8
Current Account Balance        -1018           2.5
Exports of Goods, NFS          12639          31.7                           1.9               14.7               9 9
Imports of Goods, NFS          13236          33.2                         33.1                31.0              17.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977
Value Added                    Labor Forceo,                    V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.                                                             K l. S  S$ 
Agriculture                    12840        33.6                   16.:5     56                      778          60
Industry                       16528        43,2                   5.2       18                    3178          245
Services                        8848        23.2                   6'.2       21         *         1427          110
Unallocated                                                        1.6        5
Total/Average             .            ,__
38216      100.0                   29.5    100.0                                ioo.o
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                                Central Government
: N   Nln.          % Of                          ( h   Mm.n)n         % of GDP
1922/7S         1917/8  1976/7-1977/8              1977/8        1977/8    1976/7-77/8
Gurrent Receipts                    8809             34.1         34.8                  6868          26-6           26-6
Current Expenditure                  sn47            19.5         19.0                  Z697          10.4           10.0
Current Surplus                     3762           -14.6          15.8                  4171          I6.1           16*5
Capital Expenditures                8822             34.1         33.0                  6287          24.3           24.4
External Assistance (net)
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                    1972         1973         V974                      1976        1977     1978
Million  N  outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                       1161.4       1414.1       2156.3       3622.5       5278.9    7067.5  7395.6
Bank credit to Public Sector                 519.0        497.1      -1460.1      -1281.5        199.5    2094.4  3238.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector                750.2        854.4       1070.2       1786.1       2417.8    3443.0  4623.9
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP             15.1         15.9         14.9        21.9          26.7      27.3     Th ..a.
General Price Index (196n - 100) 2/          172.9        203.9        217.0       289.6         352,4    423.1      492.5
Annual percentage changes ins
Oeneral Price Index                           -3.5         17.9           6,3       33.5          21.7      21.5      16.4
Bank credit to Public Sector                  -2.3         -4.2          n.a.        n.a.         n.a.     n.a.      n .a.
Bank credit to Private Sector                 26.9         12.7         26.6        66.8         35.4      45.3       34.3
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
2/ Index of Urban Consumer Prices up to 1977.  National Price Index from 1978.
Not applicable



ANNEX I
-25-                                                Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLIOW
BAL&NCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976-78)
1976     1977      1978                                                US S Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS          10,549   12,974   10,979              Crude Oil                           10,170    9245
Imports of Goods, NFS          10,517   13,271   14,242             Cocoa Products                          477      4.3
Resource Gap (deficit - -)          32     -297   -3,263            Palm Products                            38      0.4
Tin                                     20      0.2
Interest Payments (net)           386       324       246           All Other Commodit-ies                  292    . 2.6
Workers' Remittances               -        -         -
Other Factor Payments (net)      -676      -860      -476
Net Transfers                     -156     -156      -270
Balance on Current Account        -414     -989   -3,763                    Total                        10,997   100.0
Direct Foreign Investment         340       440       186          .EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1978
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                   61        96    1,434                                                        US $ Mln
Amortization                   -29       -62       -22
Subtotal                        32        34    1,412              Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              2,180
Capital Grants                                                        Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)              -453      -112        _5             Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i                - 12      -216      -176
Increase in Reserves (+)         -507      -843   -2,346            DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1978-
Gross Reserves (end year)       5,517    4,617
Net Reserves   (end year)        5,433    4,590    2,244              Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              0.8
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                 *
Fuel and Related Materials                                            Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                          280      158       174
of which: Petroleum            -        -         -
Exports                        9,468   11,553    9,488
of which:  Petroleum         9,468   11,553    9,488    IBRD/IDA LENDING. (Dec. 31, 1978) (Million US $):
IBRD        IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                                      -
Outstanding & Disbursed                450         38.3
1975: N1.00  - US$1.62                                            Undisbursed                            343          -
1976:  K1.00  =  US$1.60                                          Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                      38.3
1977:  N1.00  =  US$1.55
1978:  N1.00  =  US$1.58
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
* Less than 1%
.. Not Available
September, 1979



-  26  -                       ANAI:xI11
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS O  BANK CROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK CROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
(as of March 31, 1980)
Loan or                                                                 USS million
Credit                                                         Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year       Borrower       Purpose                     Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
Thirteen loans and two credits fully disbursed                  331.3   35.3
814       1972     Nigeria         Education                    17.3                0.6
838       1972     NIGERIA         Roads                        26.3                8.0
847       1972     NEPA            Power                        76.0                0.8
922       1973     NPA             Port                         55.0                2.2
929      1973      Nigeria         Education                    54.0               42.0
1045       1974     Nigeria         Cocoa Dev.                   20.0                5.8
1091       1975     Nigeria         Livestock                    21.0               15.0
1092       1975      Nigeria        Agric. Dev. Funtua           29.0                1.1
1099       1975     Nigeria         Agric. Dev. Cusau            19.0                1.9
1103       1975     Nigeria         Rice Dev.                    17.5                8.2
1164       1975     Nigeria         Agric. Dev. Gombe            21.0                 1.5
1183       1975     Nigeria         M.W. State Oil Palm          29.5               25.0
1191       1976     Nigeria         E:C. State Oil Palm          19.0               14.8
1192       1976     Nigeria         W. State Oil Palm            17.0               13.3
1454       1977     Nigeria         Agric. Dev. Lafia            27.0               20.8
1455       1977     Nigeria         Agric. Dev. Ayangba          35.0               27.2
1591       1978     Nigeria         Nuc.Est. Smallholder Oil   30.0                 27.1
1597       1978     NIDB            Industrial Dev.              60.0               59.5
1667       1979     Nigeria         Agric. Dev. Bida             23.0               23.0
1668       1979     Nigeria         Agric. Dev. Ilorin           27.0               27.0
* 1679       1979      Nigeria        Forestry                     31.0               31.0
* 1711       1979      Nigeria        Water Supply - Kaduna        92.0               92.0
* 1719       1979      Nigeria        Agric. & Rural Mgmt. Inst.  9.0                   9.0
* 1766       1980      NEPA           Power - Lagos               100.0              100.0
* 1767       1980      Nigeria        Urban Dev. - Bauchi          17.8                17.8
Total                                    1,204.7   35.3       574.7
Of which has been repaid                   143.2    2.2
Total outstanding                        1,061.5   33.1
Amount sold                     16.8
Of which has been repaid        16.4         0.4
:  Total now held by Bank & IDA             1.061.1   33.1
Total undisbursed                                              574.7
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                            Type of            Amount in US$ Million
Year                                             Business           Loan   Equity   rocal
1964, 1967,       Arewa Textiles Ltd.             Textile Mfg.        1.0    0.6        1.6
1970
1964            Nigeria Industrial             Dev. Fin. Co.                1,4      1,4
Development Bank Ltd.
1973            Funtua Cottonseed              Veg. Oil             1.6              1,6
Crushing Ltd.                  Crushing
1973            Nigerian Aluminum              Aluminum             1.0    0,3       1.3
Extrusion Ltd.                 Processing
1974            Lafiagi Sugar                  Sugar                       0,1      01
Eatates
1980            NTM                             Textiles            6.2    0.7        6.9
Total Gross Comsitmeats                             9,8    3,1      12,9
Less cancellations                                0.3              0.3
Less sold or repaid                               2.1    1.5       3.6
Total Commitments now held by IFC                   7.4    1.6       9.0
Undisbursed                                         6.2    0.8       7.0
* Not yet effective.
CC Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



-27 -                       ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 838-UNI    Fifth Highway Project:  US$26.3 million Loan of
June 26, 1972; Effective Date: February 20, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31. 1981
The construction components of the project have been completed.
The closing date of the loan was recently extended in order to complete
disbursements for weighbridges, the training of maintenance technicians, and
preparatory work for the Sixth Highway Project.
Loan No. 847-UNI    Fourth Power Project:  US$76.0 million Loan of
June 30, 1972; Effective Date: June 26, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
While the completion of the rural electrification component has
been delayed, the project is expected to be completed shortly.
Loan No. 922-UNI    Second Lagos Port Project:  US$55.0 million Loan of
August 1, 1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Civil works are complete. Container cranes are now installed
and will be in operation soon. Total project costs are much in excess of the
appraisal estimates due to labor awards and cost overruns. A revision of the
tariff structure in 1977 considerably improved the financial situation of the
National Ports Authority.
Loan No. 929-UNI    Third Education Project:  US$54.0 million Loan of
August 16, 1973; Effective Date: January 14, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Since appraisal, project costs have increased fourfold and the
scope of the project is under review. Because of weak management and a need
to redesign the project, completion could be delayed by a year or more.
Project administration was complicated by the partition of many states in
1976. Discussions have been held between the Bank and the Government with a
view to strengthening the project administration and making adequate provisions
for timely counterpart funding. A revision of the project scope and extension
of the closing date was approved by the Board last year.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
Loan No. 1045-UNI   Second Cocoa Project:  US$20.0 million Loan of
October 11, 1974; Effective Date: October 15, 1975;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The project's planting targets have been fully achieved by all
four participating states.   Loan recovery performance has however surfaced
as a major problem. A tight "action program" has been initiated, and it is
expected that updating and reconciliation of farmer loan records will be
completed soon. Local funding for Ondo and Bendel State CDU/TCU is still
inadequate.
Loan No. 1091-UNI   Livestock Development Project:  US$21.0 million Loan
of March 20. 1975; Effective Date: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date:  July 1, 1981             -
Project implementation has been slow due to the creation of new
states and operational difficulties. Serious problems of counterpart funding
from the Federal Government were encountered at first. Following the award
of a management contract for this project, and a reorganization of the project
unit, project implementation has been improved. Supporting services are
better organized, and credit is now being channeled through NACB.
Loan No. 1092-UNI   Funtua Agricultural Development Project:  US$29.0 million
L an of March 20, 1974; Effective Date: January 5, 1976;
C._osing Date:  July 1, 1982
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily with excellent
farmer response and the full support of both Federal and State Governments.
Demand for inputs is consistently above appraisal estimates. The federally
controlled Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation and Planning Unit
financed under this loan is fully operational. Project costs are in line
with appraisal estimates and disbursement is proceeding satisfactorily. An
expanded second stage project to cover the remainder of Kaduna State has been
appraised.
Loan No. 1099-UNI   Gusau Agricultural Development Project:  US$19.0 million
Loan of April 4, 1975; Effective Date: January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Despite last year's inadequate state funding, the project is progres-
sing satisfactorily with support from both Federal and State Governments.
Farmer response is good and appraisal objectives are being met and in some
cases exceeded. The possibility of a second phase project to cover the entire
state is being prepared.



- 29 -                      ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan No. 1103-UNI   Rice Project:  US$17.5 million Loan of April 25,
1974: Effective Date: January 10, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation made a slow start due to deficiencies in coun-
terpart funding and staffing limitations. The Bank has withdrawn from the
project component located in Cross River State because of acute problems
of cost overruns and inadequate physical progress. The remaining funds set
aside for Cross River State will be reallocated to project components in
Anambra and Imo States, where physical project progress and counterpart
funding are more satisfactory, and development is accelerating.
Loan No. 1164-UNI   Gombe Agricultural Development Project:  US$21.0 million
Loan of September 29, 1975; Effective Date: December 29,
1976; Closing Date: July 1, 1982
The project is being implemented satisfactorily with full support
from both Federal and State Governments. Farmer response is most favorable.
The demand for inputs and the production of maize is exceeding appraisal
estimates. A second-stage project to cover the remainder of Bauchi State has
been appraised.
Loan No. 1183-UNI   Mid-Western (Bendel) State Oil Palm Project:  US$29.5 mil-
lion Loan of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: October 17,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loan effectiveness was substantially delayed because of problems
relating to staff recruitment, land acquisition, and completion of the
Federal and State Legal Opinions and State Loan Agreement. Appraisal targets
for the nucleus estate and smallholder components have not been met due to
delays in land acquisition as well as continuing financial and managerial
problems. The monitoring component has not been fully effective because of
staffing difficulties. Specific remedial actions are being taken by Govern-
ment and, provided that these are completed, the project is expected to
achieve its objectives. Cost overruns are, however likely to be substantial.
Loan No. 1191-UNI   East Central (Imo) State Oil Palm Project:  US$19.0 million
Loan of February 12, 1976; Effective Date: April 6, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation was initially delayed due to the creation of
new states and problems with staffing. Project management and staffing are
now satisfactory, but appraisal planting targets have not been met and the
construction of palm oil mills has been delayed. Substantial cost overruns
are expected.
Loan No. 1192-UNI   Western (Ondo) State Oil Palm Project:  US$17.0 million
Loan of September 22, 1976; Effective Date: February 13,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The smallholder component continues to face financial difficulties,
and final targets may not be achieved. For the nucleus estate component,



-30 -                      u*  
Page 5 of 6
land acquisition, management, and funding problems have delayed progress.
Plantings are in poor condition and processing facilities are inadequate.
Actions to resolve these problems are being implemented and progress will be
evaluated shortly. High cost overruns are expected due to implementation
delays and inflation rates higher than anticipated at appraisal.
Loan No. 1454-UNI   Lafia Agricultural Development Project:  US$27.0 million
Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date: Mlarch 3, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Although local counterpart funding is now adequate, the project
is still experiencing some problems of a technical nature, particularly
concerning extension and training. However, overall project progress is
satisfactory.
Loan No. 1455-UNI   Ayangba Agricultural Development Project:  US$35.0 million
Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date: 1Iarch 3, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project continues to improve with satisfactory support from the
Federal and State Governments. Farmer participation and physical project
progress is good. Disbursements are also proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1591-UNI   Rivers State Nucleus Estate/Smallholder Oil Palm Proj-
ect: US$30.0 million Loan of July 24, 1978; Effective
Date: July 10, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Loan effectiveness was delayed because of problems regarding comple-
tion of the State Loan Agreement, a Management Agreement, and Federal and
State Legal Opinions. Physical progress is satisfactory, and earlier funding
problems have been overcome. The smallholder component faces some managerial
difficulties.
Loan No. 1597-UNI   Nigerian Industrial Development Bank, Ltd.:  US$60 mil-
lion Loan of June 15, 1978; Effective Date: October 24,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. A number of sub-loans
have been processed and approved.
Loan No. 1667-UNI   Bida Agricultural Development Project:  US$23 million
Loan of September 17, 1979; Effective Date: April 25,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is progressing satisfactorily in its initial stages.
Loan No. 1668-UNI   Ilorin Agricultural Development Project:  US$27 nillion
Loan of September 17, 1979; Effective Date: April 25,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is progressing satisfactorily in its initial stages.



- 31 -                      ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan No. 1679-UNI   Forestry Plantation Project:  US$31 million Loan
of October 29, 1979; not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Most conditions of effectiveness have been met. Project progress
is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1711-UNI   Kaduna Water Supply Project:  US$92 million Loan of
July 16, 1979; not yet effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Most conditions of effectiveness have been met. Project implementa-
tion is being impaired by management problems.
Loan No. 1719-UNI   Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute
Project: US$9 million Loan of July 16, 1979; not yet
effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
A management contract has been negotiated but not yet signed.
Legislation to establish the Institute is now in draft form.
Loan No. 1766-UNI   Lagos Power Distribution Project:  US$100 million
Loan of February 19, 1980; not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Loan effectiveness awaits only submission of legal opinion from
Government.  Project progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1767-UNI   Urban Development Project:  US$17.8 million
Loan of February 19, 1980; not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Most conditions of effectiveness have been met and the project is
progressing satisfactorily in its initial stages.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page I of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Ekiti Akoko Agricultural Project
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 16 months.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project: Federal Government
with assistance of consultants.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank: April 1976.
(d) Date of the first Bank mission to consider the project: April 1976.
(e) Date of departure of the Appraisal Mission: November 5, 1978.
(f) Date of completion of negotiations: November 16, 1979
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: September 30, 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   Special assurances were obtained:
(a)  Gazetting establishment of the Ekiti-Akoko Project Management
Unit (EAPMU) and the Agricultural Projects Governing Board in a
form and with powers and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank
(Conditions of Effectiveness, para. 48);
(b) Signing of a contract with firm of consultants on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Bank and appointment of project manager
and chief accountant would be Conditions of Effectiveness (para.
49);
(c) Ondo State Government second appropriate technical and other
staff to the project in a timely manner and the three Local Govern-
ment Councils second their road staff to EAPMU for training (para.
49);



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) Opening of commercial bank account for EAPMIJ with initial
deposit of N2.0 million by Federal and Ondo State Govern-
ments (Condition of Effectiveness, para. 54);
(e) Ondo State Government guarantee overdraft on commercial bank
account, up to equivalent of six months' capital requirements
(para. 54);
(f) Both Federal Government and Ondo State Government provide at
least three months in advance their quarterly financial
contributions to the project in accordance with the approved
annual project budget (para. 54); and
(g) Ondo State Government to guarantee that short-term production
loans bear interest rate of 10 percent per annumxor 2.5 percent
above National Agricultural and Cooperative Bank's maximum
current lending rate, whichever is higher (para. 51).






n; gw                                                                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NIGER A
IBRD Assisted Agricultural Projects
ipfl eft0d              FoiExsting and Under Appraisal
F%                                                                                                       Ng-~~~~~~~~~~nasr    / - 5Wto~eg                                                           Agr cultural Development.
Lafia (Loon 1454A-UNII
Ayangba (L-an455JNI)
4                                                                                                       F.nw.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OePou  (Loan 1092 -UNI()
7             ~~~Goso   Loon 1099 -UN
6                                                                                                                                                                                   +  MAISuGLRF                    r ~~0 K  0T   CGom.elLoa- 1164-UN I
[loon11-   Loon1668-UN 
APPRAISED
REint Akoko (Ondo)
Oyo North
C_~~~~~~~~~~~~,  ~~~~                                 ~/                      ŽTraining Proiecr
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                ttb~aAPPRAISPD
Marg-nrnn Tr-oin.nt ostitit
~~~  ~~~  / ~~~Tree Crop Projects
CHA~~~~~p ~EXIFSTING
N           r       ~~~~Cooo  I hoarn 7s4-UNI)
S  0por,srr   F   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sr ~~~Coo-  11 (tour04 FA- UNI)
P   L   A  E   A                                                                                O,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lTZ Gdo Gd PoIm (Lnar192- JNI)
Ronda1 Gd Palm (no.n 1183-UdNI)
C.PITAI  i                                                                                                               0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m GI Pam   Loan 1191FJN 
8-  TERWORI                                                                                                                  R -,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vt State 0.1 Porn (Loo- 1525 - UNI)
Vl~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                          F-wy~~~~~~~~~Wt  Prnr (L-no  1679-UiN
%4~~~~~~Y   APPRA 3RD
Cooo mI (Probbalyp. sanraaccn&fll
WI   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ :                                                                                          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rr.gation Project
EXISTING
(ARMKU"T ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 Rio (LaanFT103-JUNI)
Lioestook Development Project
(Loa n lOP91- UN I)
J ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mC aCoaoo,dO5                                                         0       Not-or Li-ent-ok Proovotion To Ro-hes
ITI  ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~asooteC                                                                                           U       Wetter Li-nstoo Co Rarhne
A        NorthEaster Co Ranhee
utvsuio   ~~~  ~             U        Anima / Past-r -nontgaio  Center
natittiter romeo  a   ~ ~~~~                Fur sotrt ~Grants Ret..roer  Foao Grop Ranohee
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~N%  E   L ~ ~ ~ ~ ~         ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~                   ~        3w C  tA
- E Wnnsosutisuit                                       0
0 %~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
cm        BegAn    4      OWner                               I      a    on  ee   m    no  tin ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       uOOn;o/,~- a



