Document of
The World Bank    FIE  C p
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2514-UNI
NIGERIA
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 14, 1980
Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency UJnit        =           Naira (N)
US$1                  =           N 0.60
N 1                   =           US$1.67
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated, all weights and
measures used in this report are metric:
1 metric (m) ton      =           0.98 long ton
1 hectare (ha)        =           2.47 acres
I kilometer (km)      =           0.62 mile
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ADP       Agricultural Development Project
AISU      Agricultural Inputs Services Unit
APGB      Agricultural Projects Governing Board
APMEPU    Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit
(KADUNA)
APMU      Agricultural Projects Management Unit for West Africa
ARMTI     Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute
ASP       Advanced Service Package
BSP       Basic Service Package
CDA       Controlled Droplet Applicator
CFU       Central Fertilizer Unit
CAPO      Chief Agricultural Planning Officer
EAPMU     Ekiti-Akoko Project Management Unit
EAPTAC    Ekiti-Akoko Project Technical Advisory Committee
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
FDRD      Federal Department of Rural Development
FMA       Federal Ministry of Agriculture
FGN       Federal Government of Nigeria
FSC       Farm Service Center
IART      Institute of Agricultural Research and Training
IITA      International Institute of Tropical Agriculture
LGA       Local Government Area
LGC       Local Government Council
MARD      Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (Ondo State)
MOFED     Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (Ondo State)
mOW       Ministry of Works
NACB      Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank
NAFPP     National Accelerated Food Production Program
NCRI      National Cereals Research Institute
OCC       Opportunity Cost of Capital
ONSG      Ondo State Government
OSACC     Ondo State Agricultural Credit Corporation
OSWC      Ondo State Water Corporation
THU       Tractor Hire Unit
ULV       Ultra Low Volume
UPE       Universal Primary Education
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be qisclosed without World Bank authorization.






NIGERIA
ONDO STATE
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND  .................................................                                        1
II.    THE AGRICULTURAL  SECTOR  ....................................                                       1
III.    ONDO  STATE  .................................................                                       6
IV.    THE  PROJECT  AREA  ...........................................                                      9
A.    Physical  Features  ......................................                                    9
B.    Infrastructure  and  Social  Services  .....................                                10
C.    Socio-Economic  Features  ................................                                  10
V.   THE  PROJECT  ................................................                                      13
A.    Summary  Description  ................                  ..        ..................         13
B.   Detailed  Features  ......               .............            ...................        15
C.    Cost  Estimates  ......            ..............            .....................          22
D.   Proposed  Financing  ................                   ..        ...................        24
E.   Procurement  ....... ...........                        ..........................           25
P.   Disbursements  .......             .............             ......................          26
G.   Accounts  and  Audits  ...............                  ..        ...................        26
H.   Programming  and  Budgeting  ............                    ..        ................      26
VI.    TECHNOLOGY  AND  PRODUCTION  SPECIFICATIONS  ...................                                   27
A.    Crop  and  Livestock  Development  ..........                   ..        .............     27
B.   Land  Development  ......              .............            ....................         30
C.   Road  Development  ......              .............            ....................         30
D.   Water  Development  ................                   ..        ....................        31
VII.   DEMAND, MARKETING  AND  PRICES  ...............................                                      32
A.   Demand  .................................................                                    32
B.   Marketing                     ..............................................                 32
C.   Prices  .................................................                                    33
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. B.W. van de Poll, G.S. Kalkat, A. Steer (Bank) and T. Jackson
(Consultant), who visited Nigeria from November 5 to November 30, 1978 to
appraise the project.



Table of Contenits (Cont'd)
Page No.
VIII. PROJECT ORGANIZATION ...........    ...........................  34
A.  Organization and Management ...........................  34
B.  Staffing ..............................................   36
C.  Input Distribution and Farm Credit ....................  37
D.  Post-Project Development .......   .......................   41
IX. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ........................ ...................  42
A.  Financial Implications for Farmers .................    i..   42
B.  Financial Implications to Government ......... .........  44
X.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .    ...............................   45
A.  Project Benefits .............. ........................  45
B.  Economic Rate of Return ........   .......................  46
C.  Sensitivity and Risk Analysis ..................         47
XI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....    ................  50
TABLES IN TEXT
Table 1  Summary of Project Costs                                   23
Table 2  Proposed Financing Plan by Expense Category                24
Table 3  Increases in Production and Yields                         29
Table 4  Farmgate Prices of Inputs and Outputs                      33
Table 5   Summary of Farm Budgets                                   42
ANNEX 1  Agronomy and Farm Budgets
Table I  Inputs and Estimated Yields per ha               53
Table 2  Crop Development Program                         54
Table 3   Crop Production Projections                     55
Table 4  Livestock Development - Poultry                  56
Table 5  Model 1:  1.5 ha Farm Budget - Improved
Cultivation                           57
Table 6  Model 2:  2.5 ha Farm Budget - Minimum
Tillage (manual)                      58
Table 7  Model 3:  8 ha Farm Budget - Minimum
Tillage (mechanized)                  59
Table 8  Model 4:  50 ha Mechanized Production
(5 family farms)                      60
Table 9  Model 5:  Poultry Farm Budget (500 layers)       61
Table 10 Summary of Farm Input Requirements               62



Table of Contents (Cont'd)                                             Page No.
ANNEX 2   Project Costs and Financing
Table 1   Summary of Project Costs                             63
Table 2   Buildings and Civil Works Costs                      64
Table 3   Salary and Wage Costs                                65
Table 4   Plant - Vehicle and Equipment Costs                  66
Table 5   Vehicle Operating and General Services Costs         67
Table 6   Costs of Consultants and Studies                     68
Table 7   Incremental Recurrent Farm Inputs                    69
Table 8   Farm Inputs - Capital Costs                          70
Table 9   Detailed Financing Plan                              71
Table 10  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements                  72
ANNEX 3   Economic Evaluation                                             73
Table 1   Economic Value of Incremental Crop and
Livestock Production                              75
Table 2   Economic Valuation of Farm Inputs                    76
Table 3   Economic Costs and Benefits                          77
Table 4   Sensitivity Analysis                                 88
Table 5   Estimated Market Crop Prices 1980-1985               79
Table 6   Forecast Financial and Economic Prices of
Internationally Traded Crops                        80
Figure 1  Locus of Benefit-Cost Crossover Values               81
ANNEX 4   Related Documents and Data Available in Project File           82
CHARTS    World Bank 20330 - Project Organization
MAPS      IBRD 14424      -   Nigeria Agricultural Projects
IBRD 14231     -   Proposed Locations of Roads, Dams and
FSC's
IBRD 14232     -   Soils






NIGERIA
ONDO STATE
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      The Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) has requested Bank
Group assistance in financing an agricultural development project that would
support five out of seventeen Local Government Areas (LGAs) in Ondo State.
An identification mission visited Nigeria in October 1976 and agreement was
reached on location, concept and preparation arrangements for the project.
Subsequently, a feasibility study, financed by FGN and prepared by a con-
sultant firm, BRGII (Nigeria Ltd.), assisted by State counterpart staff, was
submitted in August 1978.
1.02      The project, which would be the first comprehensive Bank investment
in food crop development in Ondo State, is expected to:
(a) assist in increasing farm productivity and annual
food crop production under rainfed agriculture,
thereby raising the incomes and standard of living
of about 70,000 farm families;
(b) provide and strengthen social and farm support services
benefitting directly or indirectly about 100,000 farm
families.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
2.01      Nigeria.  The Federal Republic of Nigeria comprises 19 states and
covers a total land area of 924,000 km . Total 1977 population is estimated
at roughly 79 million, which is nearly 20% of the total for the African conti-
nent.  Average GDP per capita (estimated at around US$450 in 1978) is  ow and
unevenly distributed; income in rural areas is considerably lower.
2.02      Economic Trends.  The Nigerian economy is dominated by the oil
sector, which accounts for about 30% of GDP, over 90% of export earnings and
80% of Government revenue. The increase in oil prices in 1973/74 enabled
the Government to embark on a massive investment program and this contributed
to GNP gross averaging 6% per annum between 1973 and 1977.  However, growth
was concentrated in those sectors that benefited in particular from the rapid
expansion in Government expenditure, i.e., infrastructure, education and large
scale manufacturing; and performance of the small-scale productive sectors,
notably agriculture, has been disappointing.



-2-
2.03      The unprecedented rise in public spending (federal current expendi-
ture increased from US$1.1 billion in 1973/74 to US$4.2 billion in 1977/78,
and capital expenditure frcim US$1.2 billion to US$9.7 billion), quickly ex-
hausted the oil-produced internal and external surpluses, and Nigeria faced
considerable fiscal and balance of payments constraints in 1978. The economy
was unable to generate goods and services at the rate demanded, and con-
sequently the domestic price level rose by over 22% per annum between 1974
and 1978. As severe restrictions on imports and government expenditure
started to bite, a combination of a higher level of oil output and 65% rise
in the price of oil during the first half of 1979 substantially improved the
financial position. Though the oil price is expected to continue to rise
gradually in real terms through 1990, oil production may not exceed the
present level of 2.15 million barrels per day. Whereas the overall growth
prospects for the next few years are good, the longer term outlook depends on
the success of the effort to diversify the economy.
2.04      Sectoral Characteristics.l/  Agriculture is by far the most impor-
tant non-oil sector in the Nigerian economy; it is estimated that about 61% of
the population derives its income from agriculture which constitutes 23% of
GDP; 5% of total exports and 62% of non-oil exports. Structurally, Nigerian
agriculture is overwhelmingly small-scale. Agricultural production depends on
traditional cultivation methods and in general, farm level efficiency is low.
2.05      Cropping patterns vary within the country's ecological zones.  In
the southern forest zones, where rainfall is bimodally distributed over a wet
season of up to eight months, the agricultural economy is largely based on
tree crops with annual staples providing subsistence and subsidiary income.
In the Guinea and Sudan savannah zones in the north, rainfall is monomodal
within a six-month spread and production is based almost-entirely on annual
crops. Between these two zones is an area known as the "middle belt," mainly
consisting of derived savannah vegetation. Predominant in this zone is a
mix of annual and tree crops, though rainfall quantity and spread may some-
times be inadequate for successful economic exploitation of the latter.
2.06      Agricultural production has been disappointing, averaging 1% increase
per annum between 1970-77, equivalent to less than half the average population
growth. This same period has been characterized by rapidly rising domestic
food prices as demand outstripped supply mainly due to population and income
growth. This has been coupled with a marked decline in traditional agricul-
tural export crops apart from cocoa. During the same period, total exports
(including petroleum) increased from N852 million to N8.2 billion, whereas
importation of food and live animals rose from N50 million to nearly N440
million; and N814 million in 1978.
2.07      Federal Sector Institutions.l/  The more important institutions
involved in the project include the Federal Ministry of Agriculture (FMA);
the Federal Department of Rural Development (FDRD) and the Agricultural
Projects' Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit (APMEPU).
1/   See Nigerian Agricultural Sector Review for a full description (Report
2181-UNI).



- 3 -
2.08      Development Strategy.  The framework for econoriic policy is sAt  6L
in the Third Five-Year Development Plan (1975-80). Although there seems to
be no well defined agricultural sector strategy, the Goiernment is acuteLy
aware of the need to improve performance in this sector, and to use oil
revenues, a depleting asset, to expand and diversify the economy in which
agriculture continues to be the dominant sector. In the revised Third Five-
Year Development Plan, a total of N3.0 billion is earmarked for the sector
to support a targeted growth rate of 5%. The program includes development
of several major river basins for irrigation, dissemination of modern farming
techniques to smallholders, improved inputs distribution and marketing serv-
ices and support for various integrated development projects. Rural develop-
ment will be promoted with complementary investments in secondary and feeder
roads, rural electrification, health facilities and other social services.
The next Four-Year Development Plan (1981-1985), now under preparation, is
expected to have the same basic focus.
2.09      Governmient's main short-term objective is to improve internal price
stability in basic food crops and to ensure adequate food supplies to the
rapidly expanding urban centers. Beyond this aim of assured domestic food
supplies, Government's longer term objectives are to create a prosperous
and efficient agricultural industry that could reduce population drift to
urban centers, and to revive the role of Nigeria as an agricultural exporter.
2.10      During the past two years (1977-78), the implementation of new
local government reforms has been taking place. The reforms are significant,
both politically and from a standpoint of practical rural development, and
in effect replace a rmore traditional local government administration at a
sub-regional level by an elected Local Government Council (LGC). This reform
has been brought about chiefly to increase popular participation in the
conduct of Local Government. In undertaking this reform, the Federal Govern-
ment recognizes the importance of decentralized administration and the power
of local opinion if the long-term development effort is to be successful. The
potential powers and responsibilities of the LGC are considerable and involve
all aspects of development from agriculture, education and health, to roads
and water supplies. It is Governmaent's intention that the LGC will, in the
long term, control and operate agricultural extension services, and this will
have an as yet undertermined impact on the structure and role of the State
i4inistries of Agriculture. W4hile this development has far-reaching potential,
LGCs are expected, during the next decade, to face difficulties in securing
the services of sufficient numbers of competent and experienced staff. Fur-
thermore, the lack of properly coordinated and planned policies and deficien-
cies in funding are likely to prevent their smooth development. Nevertheless,
LGCs are a practical reality and agricultural development projects (ADPs) in
Nigeria will have to make allowance for their involvement and should, where
possible, provide support for their development.
2.11      Development Constraints.  Undoubtedly, the main short-term develop-
ment constraint in the sector is the lack of effective agriculture support
services. Produce e-vacuation is hampered by lack of feeder roads, and many
farmers have to travel long distances to the unevenly distributed and un-
reliable sources of farm supplies.



-4-
2.12      At present subsidy levels, the demand for farm inputs (and parti-
cularly fertilizers) is high and at times unsatisfied; in many areas this has
encouraged a thriving black market. However, even within areas of relatively
high consumption of purchased inputs, with traditional farming practices,
physical yields are still low and it is likely that many farm operations would
be nonviable at economic prices.
2.13      Agricultural support services remain almost entirely in the hands
of the public sector, and present government policies, inter alia on input
subsidies are not geared to encourage vigorous private sector participation.
It is, however, clear that given Nigeria's size and massive development
program and the existence of an economic system largely based on pri-ate
enterprise, Government may wish progressively to divest itself of responsi-
bilities such as input and produce marketing; thus requiring the creation of
an economic framework appropriate to profitable involvement of private entre-
preneurs in the agriculture service sector. In addition, a greater effort is
required, particularly by t'he agricultural research institutions, to improve
the analysis of technical, economic and financial aspects of farming innova-
tions for adaptation to the different social and ecological conditions of
Nigeria; thereby providing an essential background to a sound input supply
policy and the development Df appropriate delivery systems.
2.14      Agricultural development in Nigeria is taking place against a back-
ground of rapid development in the non-agricultural sectors and rising
standards of education, both of which lead people to react against the poor
returns to labor and the drudgery associated with traditional agriculture.
Recent years have seen a marked drift of young people away from rural areas
and a sharp rise in wage rates for hired labor. Ultimately, a prosperous
agricultural sector, capablie of reducing this drift, would only be achieved
through application of advanced farming techniques that would provide signi-
ficant increases in income per man-day. This is likely to lead to greater
mechanization and the utilization of modern herbicides and other chemicals
that will increase yields and reduce labor requirement.  Eventually larger
farming units, either group or individually operated, are likely to evol-ve.
2.15      Bank Role and Key Sector Issues.  Total Bank commitments for agri-
culture between 1971-79 were over US$382.0 million and encompass 17 projects
(see lIap IBRD 13708RI). The first loans in Nigeria were for the now completed
Western State Cocoa Project (1971, Loan 764-UNI, US$7.2 million) and the
Second Cocoa Project (1974, Loan 1045-UNI, US$20.0 maillion) which is 'Leing
successfully implemented in Oyo, Ondo, Ogun and Bendel States. These were
followed by three integratedl agricultural development projects in the ncrth:
Funtua Project (1974, Loan 1092-UNI, US$29.0 million), Gusau Project (1974,
Loan 1099-UNI, US$19.0 milli'on), and Gombe Project (1974, Loan 1164-UNI,
US$21.0 million); a Rice Project (1974, Loan 1103-UNI, US$17.5 million) in
Anambra, Imo and Cross River States; a Livestock Project (1974, Loan 1091-UNI,
US$21.0 million); three oil palm projects: Nucleus Estate/Smallholder Oil
Palm Project, Ondo State (1975, Loan 1192-UNI, US$17.0 million); Nucleus
Estate/Smallholder Oil Palm Project, Bendel State (1975, Loan 1183-UNI,
US$29.5 million) and Smallhclder Oil Palm Project, Imo (1975, Loan 1191-UNI,
US$19.0 million);   in 1977 two new integrated agricultural development
projects: Lafia (Loan 1454-.UNI, US$27.0 million) and Ayangba (Loan 1455-UNI,
US$35.0 million), and most recently in 1979, two more integrated agricultural



-5-
development projects: Bida Project (1979, Loan 1667-UNI, US$23.0 million) and
Ilorin Project (1979, Loan 1668-UNI, US$27.0 million), all of which located in
the important middle belt zone of Nigeria; and in the southern part of the
country, a Rivers State Oil Palm Project (1978, Loan 1591-UNI, US$30.0 million),
and a Forestry Plantation Project (1979, Loan 1679-UNI, US$31.0 million); and
finally a project for an Agriculture and Rural Management Training Institute
(ARMTI), (1979, Loan 1719-UNI, US$9.0 million) - the first of its kind in
Africa. The projects have had varying degrees of success. The two cocoa
projects were successful during the development and establishment stage, and
over 40,000 ha of cocoa were replanted of which latest analysis indicates that
80% is successful. The oil palm projects are now picking up after early
delays in establishing management structures and problems of lack of delega-
tion of authority by the State Agriculture Administration. The livestock
project has had a disappointing beginning, mainly because it proved too
complex and dispersed to be effectively managed from the federal level.
overall management proved weak and difficulties arose in arranging effective
cooperation with the Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank (NACB).
Recently (December 1978), Government has contracted the management of the
project to a consultant firm, experienced in the field of livestock projects
in Nigeria and other parts of West Africa. Moreover, NACB has taken steps to
remove obstacles that had previously prevented NACB from meeting its obliga-
tions to the project. These and other proposed actions have resulted in
significant operational improvements. The first three integrated agricultural
development projects (Funtua, Gusau and Gombe) have completed about three
quarters of their development period and are considered successful. Studies by
these built-in project evaluation units and APMEPU (para 2.18), indicate that
these projects have achieved significant farmer impact, and production trends
indicate more positive agricultural growth rates than those obtained by
non-project farmers.
2.16      Experience of implementing existing projects has reinforced Bank
concern over a number of critical policy issues, resolution of which is
vital for medium- and long-term sector development and which must be taken
in consideration in future projects. First: while under present conditions
subsidies on selected on-farm developments may be desirable, the current
policy of subsidies on nondurable inputs (fertilizer, insecticides, herbi-
cides), irrigation water rates, tractor hire charges, interest rates and
other items is encouraging inefficient resource use, discouraging develop-
ment of farm support services by the private sector and straining Federal and
State Government's fiscal and administrative resources. Second: fertilizer
procurement and distribution has been centralized at the federal level,
resulting in inefficient supply to farmers and a needless additional burden
on the already overstrained agriculture public administration. Third: state
and federal funding procedures are not yet satisfactory, and this has created
severe problems for project execution. Fourth: credit policies and the
performance of NACB have not yet provided a viable financial framework for
the development of either smallholders' or commercial agriculture.  Finally,
the lack of experienced manpower at managerial, administrative and technical



- 6 -
levels is a major constraint in the planning and implementation of development
programs, often compounded by poor manpower utilization and frequent switching
of staff.
2.17      The appraisal, negotiations and supervision of existing agricul-
tural projects in Nigeria has given the Bank and Government an opportunity
for dialogue on key sectoral issues. The Government generally shares Bank
concerns though some differences in approach remain, for instance, over the
question of continuing input subsidies. Because the issues in question are
politically sensitive, and often administratively difficult to resolve, it
would be unreasonable to expect their prompt and simultaneous resolution. An
agriculture policy-oriented sector mission visited Nigeria in 1978 and has
produced additional factual material on which further progress may be possible
in the exchange of views between Government and Bank. Meanwhile, Bank-assisted
projects will necessarily involve special arrangements in some areas such as
federal and state flow of funds, reimbursement of input subsidies, credit and
input procurenent, all of which are deemed essential to successful implementa-
tion of such projects.
2.18      As to management and administration constraints, the short-term
solution adopted in Bank-supported projects in Nigeria is international
recruitment, and the establishment of special project management units. A
long-term solution must necessarily involve the training of Nigerian manage-
ment staff and the restructuring of service institutions.  The recent loan
(para 2.15) to establish an agricultural and rural management training insti-
tution will complement an already substantial in-service training component
for ongoing projects. Concerning Federal and State planning and monitoring
capability, the Government views APMEPU, created under the Funtua Agricultural
Development Project (Loan l192-UNI) and expanded under the Ayangba Agricul-
tural Development Project (Loan 1455-UNI) as a first step toward creating a
planning and monitoring capability for rural development in the ilinistry of
Agriculture. At this stage, AP14EPU's planning capability is in its infancy
and is confined primarily to project identification, and to providing assis-
tance to state agricultural planning units. Project preparation is normally
undertaken by consultants, and will continue as such for some years to come.
III. ONDO STATE
General
3.01      Ondo State was created as a result of the administrative reorgani-
zation of February 1976, when the former Western State was subdivided into
three separate states of Ond2, Ogun and Oyo (see map IBRD 13708RI). The
State covers about 21,000 km  (2% of the Federation), lying between 60 and
80 north and 4 030 and 60 east. The State capital is Akure, and administra-
tively, the State is divided into 17 Local Government Areas (LGAs), each con-
trolled by a LGC. Total population, estimated at about 4 million (5% of



Nigeria's total population), is mainly dependent on agriculture, with over 60%
of households engaged in farming, whose output accounts for about 90% of the
State's GDP.
Agricultural Sector
3.02      The sector is characterized by traditional smallholder farms, with
farm holdings ranging from 0.5 to 5 ha. Ecologically, Ondo State is suitable
for profitable production of a wide variety of annual and perennial crops.
The vegetation mainly comprises derived savannah in the north and high forest
in the central and south. Annual rainfall varies from about 1,200 to 1,800
mm. The northern part of the State is significantly drier and mainly used
for food crop production (yams, cassava, maize). Land use of the high
forest zone consists of food and tree crop production, with cocoa as the
dominant cash crop. About 16% of the State's land surface has been set
aside as forest reserves to be used for timber and pulpwood production.
Due to the unsuitable climatic conditions, absence of natural pastures and
endemicity of trypanosomiasis, livestock production has so far been of minor
importance in traditional agriculture.
3.03      During the 1970s, agricultural production in the State has been
disappointing. Food crop production, high on Government's priority for
improvement appears to be stagnating while cocoa production, the major cash
crop in the area, has declined about 30%. These poor results have been due
largely to the insufficient use of farm inputs, inadequate farm extension
and in the case of cocoa, low commodity prices in the early 1970s, and have
occurred in spite of generous subsidies available for farm inputs, tractor
hire services and land clearing.
3.04      The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD) is respon-
sible for planning and implementing agricultural development programs.
In its current budget, N18.3 million, or 7% of the total State budget has
been allocated to agriculture. The budget primarily covers salaries and
wages, and minimal logistic support for field staff, and the bulk of capital
expenditure has been set aside for tree crop development 1/ and land clearing
of some 2,000 ha. Although large in number by some standards, the existing
technical extension staff (1,000) are not very effective and have limited
contact with the farmers.
Research
3.05      There is no agricultural research station in the State.  The State
depends on research support from neighboring Oyo State where the Institute of
Agricultural Research and Training (IART), the International Institute for
Tropical Agriculture (IITA), the National Cereals Research Institute (NCRI),
1/   Currently the Bank is assisting Ondo State to replant cocoa (Loans 764-UNI
and 1045-UNI) and oil palm (Loan 1192-UNI).



and the Universities of Ile-Ife and Ibadan are located. The research carried
out by these institutes can be usefully employed in Ondo State, since the sta-
tions cover similar ecological conditions. In addition, NCRI conducts minikit
trials under the National Accelerated Food Production Program (NAFPP) through-
out the State. Based on these various research results, MARD, in collaboration
with IART, has formulated agronomic package recommendations for different
crops in Ondo State.
Farm Credit
3.06      The most important institutional source of farmer credit relevant to
the project is the Ondo State Agricultural Credit Corporation (OSACC), which,
since its establishment in L976, has depended on NACB for a large portion of
its funds, though recently such funds have become scarcer (para 8.13/21). In
the 1977-78 financial year, total OSACC loans in the State amounted to N16.1
million, of which N4.3 million was for the production of food crops largely
by group farmers. The remaLnder was primarily for cocoa marketing and main-
tenance. In the project area, loans for food production amounted to about
N1.25 million. Of the other major forms of institutional credit, the
cooperative bank concentrates heavily on cocoa marketing loans and the com-
mercial banks, although planming to expand, are not yet well represented.
Agricultural Training
3.07      For its senior staff (agricultural officers) the State relies on
graduate courses offered by the Universities of Ibadan and Ile-Ife. Although
present training capacity in general agriculture appears adequate, the State
may have difficulties in locating specialists in different disciplines of
crop production and livestock who would be of special importance in the
promotion of more advanced techniques.
3.08      The training of middle level technical staff (agricultural assist-
ants and superintendents) is; carried out by IART, whose training courses are
administered by the University of Ile-Ife. IART provides a certificate in
agriculture (two-year course) at its school in Akure. Additional two-year
course work undertaken at TART in Ibadan leads to a diploma in agriculture,
animal science or livestock. The present training capacity of this staff
level is adequate as long as junior technical staff, e.g., agricultural in-
structors, can be widely used for providing basic farm extension in the
initial implementation phase of agricultural development projects. Although
these junior grades do not exist in Ondo State, MARD intends to provide short-
term courses combined with practical orientation for selected school-leavers
at the Farm Training Institute, now being constructed at Ikole (the proposed
project headquarters). Vocational training, especially in agricultural mach-
inery, poultry and crop production, is to be provided for farmers at the Farm
Institute at Ikole. The Institute would also conduct refresher courses for
agricultural assistants and specialized courses for MARD in-service training
programs.



IV. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Physical Features
4.01      General.  The project area of some 4,950 km2 (24% of Ondo State)
covers five Local Government Areas (Ekiti Central, North and East, and Akoko
North and South), and is located in the nothern part of the state adjacent
to the cocoa belt. For physical features and proposed development, see Map
IBRD 14231/2.
4.02      Topography, Soils and Vegetation.  The area consists of moderately
undulating plains between 250 and 450 m above sea level punctuated by hills
and ridges rising to about 800 m, mainly in the north and southeast of the
area. The area overlies metamorphic rocks of the basement complex consist-
ing mainly of coarse to medium grained granites and gneisses. Most of the
soils in the area, derived from these parent rocks, are relatively shallow,
usually sandy (often containing a marked stone/gravel layer at depths between
25 and 100 cm), well drained, weakly acid in the topsoil, and have a low
base exchange capacity. Agricultural potential is only fair and the rapid
decline in nutrient status, under existing farming systems, only allows pro-
ductive food cropping once in 5 to 6 years. Based on a reconnaissance soil
survey, 1/ about 60% is considered suitable for productive farming, of which
only a very limited area is suitable for large-scale mechanized farming. The
area lies on the border of the high forest zone. However, under the in-
fluence of increased land pressure, the vegetation has largely become derived
savannah. The variations in light to medium forest are closely linked with
ecological and edaphic conditions. Prevalent grasses are Andropogon Sp and
Hyparrhenia Sp with spear grass (Imperata Cylindrica) often posing severe
problems to arable farming.
4.03      Climate and Vegetation.  Annual rainfall varies from around
1,200 mm to about 1,500 mm, mostly falling between March and October. The
rainy season has a duration of 200 to 225 days with a marked decline in rain-
fall for about three weeks during June and July. Mean monthly temperatures
are even, ranging from 260 - 29 CO. Radiation, temperature and sunlight
hours peak in February and are at their lowest in August when conditions
are dull and overcast. Under these climatic conditions, two different short
cycle crops or a relative'ly longer duration followed with a short duration
crop can be grown in the area. The early sown crop which is harvested during
the rainy season will, however, encounter problems of drying and storage.
1/   Soils and Land Use in Western Nigeria, A.T. Smythe and R.F. Montgomery,
Ibadan, 1962.



- 10 -
B. Infrastructure and Social Services
4.04      Roads and Communications.  The project area is entirely serviced by
road transport. The 800 km road network consists of about 600 km of poorly
maintained all-weather Federal/State trunk (paved) and feeder (earth) roads,
and 200 km of low standard LGC roads, of which only 10% are passable in the
wet season. Although road density between larger villages and towns appears
adequate, access to and within farming areas is insufficient. Additionally,
until there is an effectiLve program to upgrade and maintain the existing
roads, development of the area will be constrained.
4.05      Power, Water Supply, Health and Schools.  Rural electrification is
the responsibility of the Ministry of Works and Housing and is proceeding
satisfactorily under the Ondo State Rural Electrification Program. On the
completion of the current: Phase III, 56 towns and villages will have access
to electricity. The majority of the area's population remains dependent for
water supplies on streams, springs and wells, many of which dry up for
several months each year. Major towns and large villages throughout the
area have (21) or are scheduled to get (32) piped water supplies, mainly from
large dams (Ero and Little Osse). Smaller villages along these pipelines can
also expect to be connected, but many small communities, particularly the
(semi) permanent farm settlements (para 4.07) can expect to remain without
adequate water supply for many years. The Ondo State Water Corporation
(OSWC) is responsible for the rural water supplies, but lack of funds has
restricted OSWC piped water development programs considerably over the last
two years. Health services are relatively good, and comprise six hospitals,
50 maternity centers and 50 dispensaries. The most common endemic diseases
are malaria, dysentery, bilharzia and guinea worm. The national program of
Universal Primary Education (UPE) is making progress in the area and there
are 365 primary schools, 39 secondary and three teacher-training schools in
the area. With effect from April 1978, the responsibility for nursery,
primary, and adult education has been transferred to local governments.
Literacy rates are low and the drop-out rate in the area, particularly at
the primary level, is high.
C. Socio-Economic Features
4.06      Demography.  Population statistics throughout Nigeria are un-
reliable. The 1973 census has been formally abandoned by Government, and
whatever official figures are available are derived from the 1963 census.
This report uses an annuaL growth rate of 2.5% based on estimates by the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MOFED), that results in a
1978 project area populat:Lon of 1.2 million (30% of the State total). On
this basis the current population estimates for the five LGAs are: Akoko
North - 222,000; Akoko South - 190,000; Ekiti Central - 380,000; Ekiti
East - 179,000; Ekiti North - 262,000.



- 11 -
4.07      Yorubas, who form the main ethnic group, share a broad common
culture and language, but historically comprise a number of semi-autonomous
kingdoms which developed individual sub-cultures and dialects. In common
with Yoruba tradition, settlement is primarily urban with about 40% of the
population living in townships of over 20,000 inhabitants and another 30% in
towns of 10-20,000 inhabitants. Most settlements are located in the hilly,
non-arable areas; farmers commute daily or weekly to their farms, resulting
in a number of (semi) permanent settlements of 300-600 people (including
migrants), in the arable areas.
4.08      The majority of family households are engaged in farming activities,
but the farming community, although still relatively stable, has been affected
to some extent by the migration of younger people to major urban areas. Thus,
the 1980 agricultural population is estimated at about 700,000, and given an
average family size of seven persons, the project area supports some 100,000
farmers.
4.09      Land Tenure.  Under the Land Use Decree promulgated in March 1978,
authority and control. over all agricultural lands has been vested with the
respective local governments. The management of such lands would be carried
out with the help of Land Allocation Advisory Committees to be established
by the State Governor. Although in some cases such committees have already
been established, it is as yet too early to predict how effectively the
provisions of the new law would be administered. At least its provisions
are not expected to prove detrimental to the project implementation, and it
is likely to initiate procedures under which land titles can be obtained by
farmers; thus providing collateral for farm credit if required. Since, at
least for agricultural land, ownership patterns and tenurial patterns are
expected to continue under the customary system for some time, the existing
system is discussed in the next paragraph.
4.10      The basic pattern of land ownership and usage in the project area
has been the so-called communal land tenure system, under which traditional
leaders are considered to be the custodians of all land in their areas of
jurisdiction, and are empowered to grant usufruct to individuals/families.
Theoretically, all lands could be repossessed by the community acting
through the chief and traditional elders on the death or departure of the
usufructuaries. In practice, however, lands are generally inheritable
through the family. At the discretion of the head of the family, land can
also be divided among family members, or leased out to other families or
even to strangers; however, sale of farmland is traditionally frowned upon,
or indeed prohibited. To summarize, for all practical purposes communal
ownership is effectively exercised only in respect of vacant, virgin or un-
distributed land, and an individual or family, once granted a piece of land,
would usually enjoy de facto security of tenure. The need for proper demar-
cation of holdings to facilitate obtaining loans and ensure security of
tenure has encouraged more formal holding arrangements. Proof of title can
take the form of either a "Certificate of Occupancy" or a "Right of Occupancy."
The procedure for obtaining the former is time consuming as it involves a
survey by a chartered surveyor, and though a few individuals have recently
obtained Certificates of Occupancy the amount of land affected is extremely
limited and mainly urban.



- 12 -
4.11      Land Use.  There is no recent land use survey of the area.  Data is
based on 1961/63 aerial photography, land use analysis carried out in 1962
(see footnote para 4.02), the Rural Economic Survey Program (1972/77), Cocoa
Survey 1974, and general observations of the area by the appraisal and pre-
paration missions. In view of the varied and often differing land statistics,
it should be appreciated that figures on cultivated area, farm size, cropping
pattern, etc., are present 'best estimates'. However, during implementation
it is expected that the proposed project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would
provide more satisfactory information on this aspect and project design would
retain sufficient flexibility to take account of such findings (para 5.24).
4.12      On the basis of crude land use data, the average family household is
estimated to have 2.5 ha permanently under food and tree crops. Existing in-
formation indicates that in total about 20-30% (120,000 ha) of the area is
cultivated food crops, 10-20% is under tree crops (cocoa, oil palm,
plantain and citrus) and that about 2% (10,000 ha) has been set aside as
forest reserves. The remainder of the area (about 50%) consists of thickets,
grassland and degraded forests, part of which is fallow land. Since about
300,000 ha are considered suitable for productive farming, the present land
in the project area under food and tree crops could be expanded. However,
due to the topography, relatively shallow soils and the climatic conditions
-- particularly the rainfall intensity -- it appears that priority should be
given to improving soil conservation practices and increasing productivity
of existing cultivated area rather than opening up more land. Generally
the area is better suited to annual food crop production than to the develop-
ment of tree crops. The latter is emphasized in the higher rainfall zones to
the south, where the comparative advantage for cocoa and oil palm is well
established and is supported by two ongoing Bank loans.
4.13      Farm System.  Nearly all the farms in the area are relatively
small subsistence holdings, with most farm families farming about 2.5 ha,
and an estimated 5 to 10% with holdings of 10 ha or above. Most farms are
fragmented and scattered, adding further to operational inefficiency. The
traditional farming system is based on shifting cultivation.  Food crops
(1-2 ha per family) are generally grown on the same plots for 3 to 4 years,
thereafter reverting to natural fallow. The fallow period for the main-
tenance of soil fertility and structure varies according to population
pressure and soil fertility and varies from 5 to 10 years, with the shortest
fallow occurring in Ekiti-Central and Ekiti-North. While most holdings are
individually owned, about 10% are farmed by groups. The latter is gaining
importance and facilitate farmers to obtain farm support services and contri-
butes to a more efficient use of farmers' resources.
4.14      Farm Labor and Income.  The "average" farm family contributes over
80% to the total farm labor input. The family can provide per day about 1.5
man-days of labor, and farming operations for the average farm holding of 2.5
ha can generally be carried out with family labor without any substantial
need for additional labor. Much of the heavy field work is undertaken by
men, while women devote mcst of their time to food processing, homecrafts and
petty trading, though they also participate in light farm work, especially at
harvesting. Farm efficiency measured by output is generally low due primarily
to a combination of inadequate farm supplies, unproductive techniques, unsuit-
able implements and possibly, nutrition/health factors.



- 13 -
4.15      The average farm income at present is estimated at N770, or
US$1,185 (para 9.01/2). This income is insufficient to fully meet the farmer's
nutritional and other basic needs and during the slack season men often seek
off-farm employment, whereas younger, and particularly educated men, tend to
migrate to towns and cities for fulltime employment. Generally wages through-
out the area rarely exceed N2.50. However, the labor market is highly seg-
mented, both geographically and temporally, reflecting local and seasonal
demand pressures when wages fall below N1.75 or can rise to N4 per day. The
off-farm work opportunities are still limited.
4.16      Crop Production.  The bulk of agricultural production primarily
for home consumption is derived from manually-cultivated rainfed crops,
though tree crops, mainly cocoa, are grown particularly in the southern part
of the area and constitute an important source of cash income. Generally,
two-thirds of the crops are grown during the first part of the rainy season.
Mixed cropping is widely practiced, and up to four crops are sometimes inter-
cropped or relay cropped. The principal annual crops, covering 90% of the
arable cropped area, are maize, yams, cassava and rice. A wide range of minor
crops, including melons, cowpeas, okra, tomatoes, etc., are often interplanted
or grown as short duration catch crops. Yields of food crops are generally
very poor, which is a reflection of the predominant use of hand tools and
implements, little or no usage of organic or inorganic fertilizer, improved
seeds and pesticides, insufficient weeding and generally late planting and
poor storage. The potential to increase the low yields by making available
improved farm supplies, and by providing extension services, is enormous.
4.17      Livestock Production.  Mixed farming is practically absent in the
area as cattle are restricted by trypanosomiasis and the lack of natural
pastures. Small stock are more important and sheep and goats seem to be well
adapted to the local environment and are likely to increase in number. Poultry
farming has probably the best potential and there are increasing numbers of
small to medium sized poultry farmers running battery or deep litter systems.
V. THE PROJECT
A. Summary Description
5.01      Project objectives, which are in full accord with Federal and State
Government policies (para 2.08), are to increase food production and farm in-
comes through improving the productivity of the land and labor of some 70,000
farm families, most of whom are cultivating less than 3 ha. The project would
help to develop the considerable food productivity reserve, which lies
untapped in the traditional rainfed sector in the northern part of the State.
It would tie in with the overall agricultural development strategy of ONSG in
that the middle and southern parts of the State are potentially more suitable
for tree crop-production (para 4.12). The project to be implemented during
the five-year period 1980/81 through 1985/86 would include:



- 14 -
Crop and Livestock Development
-    increasing production of the major subsistence and cash crops
grown by smallholders on about 29,000 ha through introduction
of simple improved farming practices such as improved planting
material, fertiLizers and pesticides;
-    introducing advanced cultivation techniques, including farm
mechanization and/or use of minimum tillage on 11,500 ha to
progressive individual and group farmers;
-    increasing poultry production by providing poultry management
training and developing 200 small-scale commercial poultry
units operated 'by individual farmers;
-    provision of credit for farm production to individual, group
or cooperative farmers;
-    improving existing seed multiplication facilities and expanding
Government seed farms;
-    initiating on-farm trials in cooperation with local research
organizations, and establishing applied research trials at
selected Farm Service Centers (FSCs), where advanced tech-
nology could be tested, improved and demonstrated; and
-    establishing a Farm Management Advisory Service to assist
group and individual farmers in their operations.
Civil Works
-    constructing 125 km of feeder roads and 375 km of farm roads,
of which half would be new roads and half would be the up-
grading of existing roads, and maintaining these roads and
training LGC staff for 3 years until project roads are handed
over to Local Government;
-    constructing 35 small earth dams;
-    clearing land (including soil conservation works) on approx-
imately 1,000 ha of land for the Advanced Production Package;
and
-    constructing project offices, staff houses, workshops, stores
and 30 Farm Service Centers.
Institutional Support
-    providing for a management structure with the required technical
and administrative staff, logistical support and funds to imple-
ment the project, evaluate project progress and provide guidelines
for future projects;



- 15 -
strengthening the Farm Training Institute at Ikole to provide pre-
and in-service training for project staff and training for farmers
in specialized fields;
establishing a farm input supply system; and
strengthening OSACC in providing and administering project medium-
term credit.
Consultancy
-    providing technical consultancy on agriculture management,
training and introduction of new techniques;
-    assisting MARD in feasibility studies for the agriculture
and rural sector, including crop processing, marketing,
irrigation and livestock;
-    assisting MARD to review state agricultural policies and
development requirements, particularly in respect to farm
inputs/credit and LGCs; and
-    carrying out rural water supply studies, through hydrolo-
gical surveys.
B. Detailed Features
5.02      Crop and Livestock Development.  Project intervention would improve
farming practices on an estimated 29,000 ha by some 65,000 smallholders who
would benefit from the Basic Service Package (BSP), and on 11,500 ha by some
5,000 farmers participating in the Advanced Service Package (ASP). It is
difficult to estimate farmer response on a project of this nature, but drawing
on experience on similar ongoing projects in Nigeria, it is estimated that
about 70% of total project farmers would be contacted by the project extension
service and would adopt partly or wholly the recommended crop production pack-
ages. Details of inputs and estimated yields for the different packages are
given in Annex 1, Table 1.
5.03      The Basic Service Package is a relatively simple production package,
intended for wide coverage, and would consist of the provision of good quality
seeds of improved varieties/composites, more timely planting and weeding, in-
creased and more uniform plant population, and modest use of fertilizer and
pesticides. The success of BSP would depend on the efficient operation of a
farm input distribution network comprising 30 FSCs servicing areas of existing
and future agricultural potential, and an effective extension service. The
establishment of the FSCs would bring each farmer within a 10 km radius of
farm supply services where supplies would be obtained on a cash or credit basis.
The present extension worker:farmer ratio is about 1:4,000, and under the pro-
ject would be reduced to 1:400/600. Four hundred selected farmers would be



- 16 -
contacted by each extension worker on a regular monthly basis at the rate of
25-30 farmers daily, as groups or individually. The exact staff: farmer
ratio should be treated with considerable flexibility until such time as the
agriculture development needs of the area are properly assessed and a minimum
efficient ratio determinecl. It is expected that on completion of the project,
the BSP would cover 5,500 ha of maize (12% of total maize area); 9,000 ha of
yam (30%); 10,000 ha of cassava (23%); 4,000 ha of rice (22%); and 500 ha of
cowpeas (20%) relay cropped with maize.
5.04      The Advanced Service Package is designed for adoption on a far
smaller scale, by group and individual farmers, displaying the management
aptitude to handle more sophisticated technology in crop production. The
ASP would introduce more advanced systems including minimum tillage and asso-
ciated chemical weed control measures for both mechanized and manual farming
systems, and would mainly benefit maize, rice and cowpea production. This
would allow both area and yield increases and would increase farm income and
reduce drudgery, making farming a more rewarding occupation.
5.05      Two of the more important constraints to farming in the project
area are soil erosion and weed control. The area faces a high degree of soil
erosion on tilled land due to the combination of slope and intensive rainfall;
and weed control depends on burning and labor-intensive hoeing. The use of
minimum tillage techniques provides solution to these problems, in that by
using selected herbicides, weeds and crop residue are left as a mulch to
protect the soil from erosion. The adoption of minimum tillage hinges on
the proven practicability of herbicide application, using controlled droplet
applicators (CDA) in which the spray material is kept to a minimum (less than
12 L/ha), thus eliminating transportation of large quantities of water. It
also depends upon thorough training of farmers and extension workers and test-
ing the techniques under farm conditions in the earlier years of the project.
IITA and the project will work closely together in providing the training
requirements.
5.06      Although the advanced package would mainly assist smallholders in
improving their manual farm practices, through introducing some labor-saving
equipment (CDA sprayer, jab planter), some mechanized packages (with or with-
out minimum tillage) would be introduced on a pilot basis. A small mechanized
power unit (5-10 hp) witb key attachments (low volume herbicide sprayer, two-
row planter, fertilizer applicator, small trailer/transporter), now success-
fully used and further developed by IITA, would be introduced towards the end
of the project after 3 years of testing under field conditions with assist-
ance of IITA. In view of the past experience, Tractor Hire Units (THUs) in
the project area will be phased out and replaced by the sale of tractors and
equipment on credit to group or commercial farmers. Such farmers are expected
to take up some custom cultivation for other farmers in the area.  Arrangements
would be made for training of tractor drivers in machinery maintenance, and
also for the stocking and sale of fast-moving parts and repairs for tractors
of FSCs.



- 17 -
5.07      Some 5,000 farmers on 11,500 ha are expected to benefit from ASP.
It is anticipated that the arable cropped area would be increased by 4,000 ha
involving minimal hired labor for clearing, as minimum tillage would release
more family labor for tasks such as land clearing. However, about 1,000 ha
would be cleared by project machinery so as to make maximum use of equipment
designated for road and dam construction that would otherwise be idle during
the wet season. On completion of the project, it is expected that the ASP
would be applied to 5,000 ha of maize (11% of total maize area); 2,000 ha of
rice (11% of total rice area); 1,500 ha of cowpeas (60% of total cowpea area);
and 3,000 ha of cassava (7% of total cassava area).
5.08      Projected incremental production from both BSP and ASP is estimated
at full production to total nearly 13,000 tons of maize, 36,000 tons of yams,
49,000 tons of cassava, 5,000 tons of rice and 1,000 tons of cowpeas. Crop
development and production projections are at Annex 1, Tables 2 and 3.
5.09      Adaptive research and trial facilities would be set up at the
selected FSCs. Crop trials conducted at these sites would be linked to the
national and state agricultural research program. The sites would also be
used for developing farming systems appropriate to local conditions, partic-
ularly those including minimum tillage techniques, and specific attention
would therefore be given to practical trials of low horsepower tractors
(para 5.06). To develop the coordination between agricultural extension
and research, a committee at project level would be set up to review and
formulate the adaptive research and trial programs.
5.10      Seeds and planting material production would be undertaken at the
existing Osin State Farm (which would be controlled by the Project) for
improved maize, rice and cowpea varieties. Production targets would be set
against shortfalls in seeds avaiable from the National Seed Service. Pro-
duction of improved planting material for yam and cassava for the BSP and ASP
programs would, because of their bulk, be undertaken at the 15 FSCs described
in para 5.12. An appropriate inspection and certification system would be
introduced by the project in conjunction with the National and State Seed
Service. Efforts would be made to train farmers, as has been done in other
projects to complement the project's seed multiplication program. The project
would provide adequate seed processing equipment.
5.11      Livestock Development.  It is expected that 200 farmers would be
trained in practical poultry management, including preventive disease control,
and would be assisted in constructing 500 bird layer production units. Day-
old chicks would be supplied by the project's poultry breeding unit (2,000
birds) to be established at Ikole. Feed would be stocked by the FSCs and
obtained from the State feed mills. Maize, the main raw material for the
feed mills, would be produced by the State farms and market surplus production
of project farmers. Poultry development and egg production forecasts are
shown in Annex 1, Table 4.
5.12      Farm Input Supplies and Credit.  The project would provide the
necessary input supplies to farmers through its Commercial Services Division
(paras 8.10-8.21) and distributed to farmers through the FSCs. Five large



- 18 -
FSCs (equivalent to the Federal Agro Service Center (ASC)) would be con-
structed (including the upgrading of the one already existing at Ikare) at the
LGCs' headquarters. Twenty-five smaller centers would be located according to
crop development potential and farm density. Tentative locations for the FSCs
are presented on Map IBRD 14231. Currently, about 400 tons of fertilizer
is consumed annually by project area farmers. It is anticipated that by
Project Year 5 this will have increased to about 8,600 tons, by which time
sales of herbicides and insecticides, which are now negligible, are expected
to reach about N730,000 (constant 1980 prices). FSCs would also sell
improved cereal seeds, tuber cuttings and poultry feeds. Small items such as
hand sprayers, planters arnd farm tools would be available from all FSCs, but
larger items including tractors would be only available at FSCs in high demand
areas. Supplies for poultry farmers would be initially available at the
poultry training center (para 6.07), but later would be sold at FSCs. Total
annual sales of non-recurrent items would be about Nl million (1980 prices)
at full development. Seasonal credit for herbicides and insecticides would be
provided in kind by the project, while medium-term credit for capital inputs
would be provided by a strengthened OSACC. Details of the credit arrangements
are given in paras 8.16-8.21.
Civil Works
5.13      Roads.  The existing road network in the area totals 813 km, of
which 229 km are Federal roads, 440 km are State roads and 144 are LGC roads.
The Federal and State roads are deteriorating, and unless better maintained,
will become a constraint to the development of the area. Most of the LGC
roads are impassable during the rainy season due to inadequate construction
standards and lack of maintenance. Despite the poor quality, there is an
adequate network of Federal and State roads serving the larger communities
within the area, and the proposed FSCs are sited on this network. In
contrast, the farming areas and settlements, to which most farmers commute,
have very poor feeder and farm roads which impose severe constraints on the
agricultural development of the area. The project's road program objectives
are twofold. Firstly, to link the existing road network to the important
farming areas by means of all-weather feeder roads capable of carrying up to
100 vehicles per day.  Secondly, to provide an integrated network of farm
roads to provide access for lighter traffic within the farming area.  On this
basis, 125 km of gravel surfaced feeder roads and 375 km of farm roads is
proposed.  About half would be new roads aligned on the watershed to reduce
construction and maintenance costs and be compatible with soil conservation
requirements, the balance would be to improve existing roads.
5.14      Relatively high labor costs rule out labor intensive construction
techniques. Currently, existing governmental and private companies are
neither interested nor in a position to cope with the construction and main-
tenance required for the program. It is therefore proposed to follow the
successful practices of ongoing agricultural projects and establish a project
controlled and operated construction unit consisting of 2 bulldozers, 2
graders, 1 vibratory roller, 6 tippers, 1 wheel loader and 2 water tankers,
together with ancillary equipment. During the wet season, bulldozers from
the Dam Construction Unit would assist in road clearing. In addition, bull-
dozers from both the Road and Dam Construction Units would be used during



- 19 -
the wet season for land clearing activities for selected group or individual
farmers so as to make maximum use of equipment that otherwise would be idle.
It is expected that about 1,000 ha would be cleared during the project.
5.15      Water.  Water supplies are critical in most parts of the project
during the dry season when many of the streams, springs and wells dry up.
OSWC serves mainly the urban areas, but there are many smaller communities,
particularly in the farming areas without an adequate water supply (para
4.05). To help alleviate these water shortages, it is proposed to build,
with the project's Dam Construction Unit, 35 small earthen dams, each of
about 35,000 m3 storage, incorporating simple filter and drawoff arrange-
ments. Water would be intended mainly for domestic supply to (semi) per-
ment farm settlements. Excess storage water could be used for vegetable
gardening irrigation, and the dams would be stocked with suitable species
of fish. Since the area's potential of groundwater resources is unknown,
hydrogeological investigations will be carried out (para 5.25 (d)).
5.16      Repair and Maintenance.  A workshop at Ikole would be established
to service and repair all vehicles, plant and equipment. Workshop staff,
linked to the central workshop by radio, would be posted to the field con-
struction units to keep plant and vehicle downtime to a minimum. A compre-
hensive stores system of spare parts would be maintained to overcome supply
problems. Roads and dams would be maintained by the project for 3 years
after construction, prior to handover to the respective LGCs. During the
project period, a central Road Maintenance Unit would be established to
support the LGC road maintenance requirements in order to mininize cost
and maximize the utilization of scarce manpower resources. Following a
project-operated training program for LGC staff, the LGCs should, by the end
of the project, have assumed joint responsibility for the workshop, plant and
equipment and associated road and water maintenance. The maintenance of State
and LGC roads would only be effective if the State MOW and LGC budgets
are adequately funded. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that ONSG
would review annually with the State MOW, the LGCs and the project, the road
and water maintenance and staff training requirements, and that ONSG would
provide the State MOW and LGCs with adequate funds for this purpose. The
estimated annual LGC road maintenance cost in the project area would be
N125,000. In respect to the Federal roads in the project area, confirmation
was received during negotiations that FGN would give high priority to improv-
ing the maintenance of these roads.
5.17      Buildings.  A major building program would be required for the
construction of 90 staff housing, 30 FSCs, 2 stores, 2 workshops, offices and
seed farm buildings. The project's administrative center would be at Ikole,
together with the Farm Training Institute. Construction would be undertaken
by local contractors through a system of local competitive tendering satisfac-
tory to the Bank. Building work would be supervised by the project building
section, which would also be responsible for building maintenance. The
project's building program is detailed in the Project File WP 2.



- 20 -
Institutional Support
5.18      Staff Development.  The project itself would be a massive training
effort in improved agricultural methods, communication and rural administra-
tion and would provide a sound basis for on-the-job experience and training
under competent senior staff, where the objectives of management and farm
development would be clearLy laid out. Experience to date shows clearly that,
under such conditions, Nigesrian staff have performed most effectively and
learnt rapidly by experience. This in itself, however, is not sufficient,
and the project would suppLement on-the-job experience with formal staff
development programs.
5.19      Training Administration.  The senior training officer attached to
APMEPU would work in close collaboration with the Ekiti-Akoko Project Manage-
ment Unit (EAPMU) in developing and monitoring new training techniques. The
EAPMU Chief Training officer would, apart from project training, also be
responsible for working wilth state officials in developing adequate training
programs outside the project area, in anticipation of an expansion of the
project to other parts of ithe State at a later date. He would work closely
with the LGCs in the project area to develop training programs for LGC staff,
particularly in areas related to project activities, e.g., road and water
facility maintenance and administration.
5.20      Most courses would be taught at the Farm Training Institute (para
3.08) at Ikole, presently imder construction, and to be upgraded by the pro-
ject. Courses would be provided for farmers (particularly in poultry and
minimum tillage techniques) as well as for project and LGA staff.
5.21      Technical Training.  Specialized training courses would be estab-
lished to train all levels of staff in the agronomic and technical needs of
the project. It would be agreed with the State that the project would be
authorized to conduct its own training of agricultural instructors who would
be employed by the project (para 3.08). This grade of staff would later (in
the post-project period) be considered for formal training and induction as
agricultural assistants. 'En addition, short courses would be developed for
agricultural staff, mechanics, bookkeepers, storemen, salesmen, etc. Some
selected staff might be sent overseas for specific technical training in
fields where courses were not available in Nigeria.
5.22      Staff Development: and Management Training.  One of the fundamental
problems of continuity of project activities relates to the dearth of manage-
ment, as opposed to technical background among Nigerian agricultural staff.
The problem must be approached by a combination of formal training and
guided on-the-job experience. Much will depend on the numbers and caliber
of staff the State is prepaLred to second to the project. The senior staff
development officer would carry otut an initial inventory of existing and
required staff and training needs, and subsequently, work closely with project
technical managers to prepare staff development programs for individual
Nigerians in key positions, and for groups of staff at medium and lower levels.



- 21 -
It is anticipated that project staff would be enrolled in courses at the
proposed Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute to be located at
Ilorin in neighboring Kwara State. Overseas courses in management fields as
in technical subjects, would be considered where no comparable Nigerian course
existed, but should be limited to relatively short courses with immediate
practical relevance to the staff member's responsibilities.
5.23      Farmer training would be carried out through group meetings using
audio-visual aids. Practical on-farm demonstrations would play an important
role in farmer training. The training section would assist with outside con-
sultant help in preparing teaching materials for extension staff to use, in-
cluding a reference manual and technical films to demonstrate cropping tech-
niques. Several media, including radio programs, a mobile film unit and
printed materials would be used to improve project communication with farmers.
Evaluation
5.24      The lack of quantitative information on the area creates a partic-
ular need for an effective evaluation scheme to provide a dual service to
project management as a data collection, analysis and advisory unit, and to
government and donor agencies as a source of information for effective pro-
ject supervision and impartial assessment of performance. During the start-
up year, experienced staff from APMEPU in Kaduna would conduct an initial
"thumbnail" farm survey of the project area. Thereafter, the Evaluation
Section would undertake a more formal baseline survey, to provide precise
definition of the farming systems practised in the project area and to pro-
vide information on pre-development crop yields and inputs. A continued
survey of crop yields and inputs would be maintained during implementation,
but priority attention would be given to evaluation of the Advanced Service
Package, which involves heavy expenditure and which can only be justified
by positive evidence that real long-term benefits are materializing. The
Evaluation Section would maintain a central data bank of basic planning
and progress information, and would keep a detailed record of management
decisions and reasons for any departure from original proposals. The
section would receive technical support in survey design and in methodology,
processing and analysis of large-scale evaluation surveys from APMEPU and
would maintain close liaison with state evaluation and research institutes.
The Evaluation Unit would, through the monitoring and evaluation process,
prepare the project's completion report.
Consultant Services
5.25      The project would provide ONSG with 30 man-months of consultant ser-
vices to assist MARD and the project in specific areas where local skills are
not available, or where short-term supplementation is required. Specifically,
the consultants would:



- 22 -
(a) provide for technical consultancy (8 man-months) on a
periodic basis to review and make recommendations on
improvement of basic agricultural management, work methods
and organization, and the introduction of new technology.
In respect of the latter, the consultants should review
and make recommendations on improvements of minimum tillage
techniques and farm implements on a periodic basis;
(b) provide assistance to MARD to review practices and procedures
relating to farm credit, input supplies and distribution, local
government authorities road maintenance and agricultural extension
operations with a view to preparing proposals for post-project
development (4 man-months);
(c) prepare feasibility studies during the fourth project year
concerning crop processing (yams, cassava), crop marketing
of foodcrops, small-scale irrigation and livestock development,
which could be included for a second phase agricultural develop-
ment project in Ondo State. The consultants (6 man-months)
would work in close coordination with MARD and project staff
and would take into consideration recommendations established
under (b) above; and
(d) provide for 12 man-months technical consultancy to carry
out a hydrogeological study to determine the groundwater
potential for the area. This study will be carried out
in relation with studies to be carried out by APMEPU which
will investigate the most appropriate and cost effective method of
providing domestic water supplies (para 6.14).
5.26      The consultants would be recruited at an estimated US$9,000 (1980
constant prices) per man-month individually or through consultant firms.
Details of consultant services are provided in Annex 2, Table 6. It is
expected that international consultants would provide the main input, but
efforts would be made to encourage local firms to participate where possible.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the project's Management Unit
would be responsible for preparing detailed terms of reference for review by
the Bank prior to engagement of any consultant and that the latter would be
properly qualified and experienced and would be employed on conditions and
terms satisfactory to the Bank.
C. Cost Estimates
5.27      Project costs during the five-year development period 1980-1985 are
estimated at N48.2 million (IlS$80.5 million) of which N19.4 million (US$32.5
million) or 40% would be foreign exchange costs. If taxes and duties are ex-
cluded, costs would be N45.2 million (US$75.5 million). Base costs are esti-
mated on prices obtained during appraisal, updated to reflect baseline costs
expected in April 1980. Costs include: (a) physical contingencies equal
to 5% of base costs, except civil works where 10% is estimated; (b) price



- 23 -
contingencies for local construction and operating costs at 15%; for local
salaries and labor employed directly by the project 7%; and (c) price contin-
gencies for foreign costs (including those of civil works) are calculated on
base costs plus physical contingencies, compounded annually, and based on the
following annual rates of inflation:
1980        1981        1982/85
Vehicle,  plant,  equipment,              )
spare parts and farm inputs )
Civil works,  buildings  and             )         9%          8%             7%
construction materials                 )
Salaries,  consultants and               )
technical assistance                   )
5.28         Total contingencies  calculated on the foregoing basis are equivalent
to 28% of total costs or 39% of baseline costs. Project costs and price con-
tingencies have been calculated on the assumption that the exchange rate be-
tween the naira and the dollar will remain fixed at Nl = US$1.67 throughout
the project period. This closely reflects the experience of recent years
during which time the exchange rate remained practically unchanged despite a
rate of inflation in Nigeria which consistently exceeded international infla-
tion by a significant margin.
5.29         Details of project costs are presented in Annex 2, Tables 1-8, and
the Project File WP 5, and summarized below:
Table 1: SUM4MRY OP PROJECT COSTS
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    % of Ba8e  2 of Tctal
-     N Million         -    US$ Million --        Costs     Costs
Project Management and
Administration             2.2     0.9    3.1       3.7    1.5    5.2          9         6
Evaluation L'nit             0.5    0.3    0.8        0.8    0.5    1.3          2          2
Connercial Services          4.3     1.8    6.1       7.2    3.0   10.2          18        13
Training                     0.9    0.5      1.4      1.5    0.8    2.3          4          3
Technical services
Extension               - 3.4    0.8       4.2     5.7    1.3    7.0          12         9
Farm MH&agement/Planning   0.9    0.5    1.4       1.5    0.8    2.3           4         3
Seed Multiplication        0.9    0.6    1.5       1.5    1.0      2.5         4         3
Livestock                  0.5    0.4    0.9        0.8    0.7    1.5          3         2
Sub-total               5.7    2.3    8.0        9.5    3.8   13.3         23         17
FDgineering
Roads and Water            6.3    4.7    11.0    10.5    7.9   18.4           32         23
buildings Section          0.9    0.4    1.3       1.5    0.7    2.2           4         3
Workshop                   1.1     0.6    1.7       1.8    1.0    2.8          5         3
8.3    5.7    14.0    13.8    9.6   23.4           41        29
Farm Inputs                  3.0    3.3      6.3      5.0    5.5   10.5         18         13
Consultant Services & Studies    -   0.4    0.4       -       0.7    0.7         1          -
Minus Existing Expenditures   5.5    -       5.5      9.2     -       9.2       (16)      (11)
Total Base Costs       19.4   15.2    34.6    32.3   25.4    57.7         100          -
Physical Contingencies       1.6     0.)    2.5       2.7    1.5    4.2          -          5
Price Contingencies          7.8    3.3    11.1    13.0       5.6  .13.6         -         23
Estizated Total Project Coaste   28.8   19.4   48.2    48.0   32.5   80.5        -        100



- 24 -
D. Proposed Financing
5.30      Of the total project cost of N48.2 million (US$80.5 million), the
Bank would finance N18.4 million (US$32.5 million) at the lending rate cur-
rent at the time of loan approval and for a period of 20 years, including a
five year grace period. The Bank loan would cover 40% of total project costs
or 43% of project costs net of taxes, equivalent to the foreign exchange cost;
FGN would finance N12.1 million (US$20.2 million) representing 25% of project
costs, in addition to fund:Lng farm input subsidies, and ONSG N16.7 million
(US$27.8 million) or 35% of project cost, in addition to maintaining its exist-
ing expenditures in the project area. A summary of this proposed financing
plan is shown below (detailed financing plan is at Annex 2, Table 9).
Table 2: PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN BY EXPENSE CATEGORY
(N million)
Total    IBRD    FMG    ONSG    Distribution
(%)
Buildings & Civil Works             12.5      5.2    3.4    3.9           26
Plant Vehicles & Equipment           6.0      4.8    0.4    0.8          13
Vehicle Operating & General
Services                           6.8       -     1.4    5.4          14
Salaries & Wages                    12.2      3.9    1.7    6.6           25
Farm Inputs                         10.2      5.0    5.2      -           21
Consultant Services                  0.5      0.5     -       -            1
Total N Million                48.2    19.4   12.1   16.7          100
Total US$ Million              80.5    32.5   20.2   27.8            -
Percentage Distribution                40%    25%    35%           100%
5.31      The Bank loan would be made to the Federal Government who would
onlend it on the same terms and conditions to ONSG under a subsidiary loan
agreement drawn up between FGN and ONSG.  Ongoing projects are suffering from
inadequate inflows of funds from Government sources, and in order to address
this problem, assurances were obtained during negotiations that Bank dis-
bursements would be made directly to the Ekiti-Akoko Project Management Unit
(EAPMU) commercial bank account; EAPMU would be authorized to establish over-
draft facilities equivalent to six months working capital requirement as
estimated in the annual State approved budget and that the overdraft would
be guaranteed by ONSG; FGN and ONSG would provide their quarterly contri-
butions to the project at least three months in advance, and in accordance
with the approved annual budget; and the management of EAPMU would submit
at least four months prior t:o each fiscal year the project's proposed annual
budget, as approved by the Agricultural Projects Governing Board (APGB),
to the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, the State Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Development, and the Bank.



- 25 -
5.32      Farm inputs are costed on an incremental basis.  Fertilizers
would be sold on a subsidized basis following established federal and state
policies. In order to ensure that the project has sufficient funds to
purchase the following year's inputs, it is essential that EAPMU receives
in advance (September previous to the purchase year) subventions from FGN
and ONSG to cover the estimated cost of any subsidies. Assurances to this
effect were obtained during negotiations. This would not apply if FGN
continues its present procedure of procuring fertilizer centrally and
distributing it to the States; in such case assurances would be obtained
that deliveries would be in sufficient quantities and according to a
timetable agreed upon at negotiations. Project operating expenditures are
incremental to estimated existing government recurrent expenditures of
N1.1 million per annum on agricultural development in the project area.
ONSG would provide these funds to the project in addition to the incremental
requirements shown in the above table. Further, ONSG would guarantee OSACC
sufficient funds (N2.5 million) to finance the medium-term loans to
project farmers (para 8.16). Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations.
E. Procurement
5 .33     Fertilizers, chemicals, motor vehicles, road making equipment and
farm machinery valued at about N11.2 million (US$18.7 million) would be
procured through international competitive bidding according to Bank guide-
lines. Contracts for less than US$100,000 would be procured according to
local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. For contracts
less than US$30,000 local competitive shopping would be employed in a manner
acceptable to the Bank. Items for procurement would be bulked to permit
optimum use of competitive bidding. Domestically manufactured goods would
be allowed a 15% preference or the applicable import duty, whichever is
lower, when comparing bids with those of foreign manufacturers. Experience
has shown that contracts for houses, stores and buildings, which are valued
at about N7.0 million (US$11.7 million) are not attractive to foreign con-
tractors due to dispersed location, small size of contracts and competitive-
ness of local contractors; such contracts would be awarded on the basis of
local competitive bidding. Construction of feeder roads and small dams, for
which labor and materials are valued at N4.5 million (US$7.5 million), would
be undertaken by the project on force account, due to a continuing shortage
of dependable contractors able to undertake this type of work. These costs
will however not be financed by the Bank. A large part of the project cost
would be incremental operating expenses and local salaries, valued at about
N8.5 million (US$14.2 million), which are unsuitable for competitive bidding.
The services of consultants and internationally recruited staff valued at N3.4
million (US$5.7 million) would be obtained in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank. An amount of N13.6 million (US$22.7 million) would
cover contingencies.



- 26 -
F. Disbursements
5.34      Expenditures would be fully documented.  A schedule of Bank loan
disbursements is at Annex 2, Table 10. The Bank Loan would be disbursed
during 1980-85 as follows:
Category I:   40% of the cost of buildings, offices, houses and
furnishings, totalling US$7.8 million.
Category II:  100% of the foreign expenditure on directly imported
plant, velhicles, spare parts and equipment, or if
locally procured, 90% of expenditure, totalling
US$7.2 million. 
Category III: 100% of t!he salaries and allowances of internationally
recruited staff and consultant services and overseas
training totalling US$6.7 million.
Category IV:  100% of foreign expenditures on directly imported
fertilizers, chemicals and agricultural equipment
(or if locally procured 85% of expenditure) totalling
US$7.5 million.
Category V:   An unallocated amount of US$3.3 million.
Disbursements for all categories would be made against contracts of procure-
ment only entered upon by EAPMU according to the specification of para 5.35.
No payment would be made against certificates of expenditure and/or for
force account works.
G. Accounts and Audits
5.35      EAPMU would keep records in accordance with sound accounting prac-
tices to reflect its operational and financial position and would have
these audited by a firm of independent external auditors acceptable to the
Bank; the audited accounts and the auditor's reports, including a statement
as to whether Bank funds had been used for their intended purpose, would be
submitted to the Bank within four months at the end of the fiscal year.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
H. Programming and Budgeting
5.36      Annual budgets would be prepared by EAPMU, based on appraisal esti-
mates amended, where necessary, to reflect changes in costs and projected
development policies. These would be submitted to the APGB for approval.
EAPMU would prepare quarterly cash flow statements which would be submitted to
APGB, and EAPMU would operate on the basis of these statements. EAPMU would
prepare, for prompt submission to the Bank, quarterly and annual progress
reports, including summaries of expenditures and use of funds. On the basis



- 27 -
of the approved annual budgets, the State and Federal Governments would make
budgetary allocations and thereafter would make available to EAPMU all neces-
sary funds quarterly and in advance (para 5.32). A separate bank account for
EAPMU would be opened with a commercial bank, and an initial deposit of N2.0
million (about 20% of project year expenditure), of which Nl.O million paid-in
by FGN and N1.0 million by Ondo State, would be a condition of effectiveness.
VI. TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS
A. Crop and Livestock Development
6.01      Crop development proposals for the BSP program have been based on the
agro-ecological conditions in the project area, and socio-economic constraints,
including family finances and labor availability. The technology proposed is
simple and relatively inexpensive. Farm size and tenure arrangements would not
change to any degree. Agronomic recommendations and yield projections (Annex 1,
Table 1) are based on relevant research, experience in other projects and
observed performance under field conditions. During project implementation,
these recommendations and the cropping patterns and rotations would be modified
and refined on the basis of adaptive research/trials proposed in the project
area. Yield projections foresee substantial increases in the present low
maize, rice and cowpea yields, justified through the introduction of an inter-
mediate farm management level package. It would involve the use of improved
dressed and certified seed, appropriate use of fertilizer and insecticide,
improved and more timely cultivation and post harvest practices. Particular
attention would be given to maize storage. Maize cribs would be demonstrated
and introduced to farmers for improved methods of maize drying and storage,
which would allow reaping during the rainy season. Moderate yield increases
are expected for yams and cassava mainly through use of improved planting mate-
rial. Planting material would include improved strains of cassava resistant
to leaf mosaic and cassava bacterial blight and varieties of yams which are
higher yielding, resistant to disease and insect pests, store well and are
palatable to consumers. Yam setts would be dusted prior to planting.
6.02      More sophisticated technology would be introduced for farmers
participating in the ASP program. This would include, for the predominant
manual minimum tillage package, the use of herbicide such as paraquat (pre-
plant), glyphosate (mainly to control speargrass) and triazines, applied
through Controlled Droplet Application (CDA) sprayers. Under ASP the
adoption of fertilizer, insecticides and maize cribs would be higher than
that expected for BSP. Planting would be improved by use of jab or rolling
injection planters. The rotation would be three years maize and one year
cassava, without fallow periods. At least one of the first two maize crops
would be followed by late cowpeas. Yams would generally be grown in rotation
with vegetables and food crops, but are not included in the maize-cassava
rotations due to the need for ridging which would reduce the mulch retention
required for effective minimum tillage (para 5.05).



- 28 -
6.03      The main mechanized ASP package covering up to 4,500 ha would com-
prise a conventional cultivation package, tractor ploughing and planting,
herbicide spraying and transportation (tractor) assistance at harvesting.
The rotation would be similar to the minimum tillage package, but would
include a fallow period. Farmers with conventional tractors could also
adopt the full sequence of minimum tillage operations (trashing crop resi-
dues and weeds with a rotary slasher, spraying with blanket and pre-emergent
herbicide and planting by zero planter). It is expected that the seed multi-
plication farm will adopt the latter technology. This modest program would
require eventually 30 conventional 45 kw tractors. The mechanized package
would also include a pilot introduction of a 5-10 hp, 4-wheel tractor unit
with attachments, developed by IITA specifically for the intermediate level
farmer. This tractor would have the capabilities of transporting up to 0.4
tons of increased outputs, propelling a two-row no till planter; carrying a
4-6m swarth herbicide/insecticide CDA spray rig; and powering a 50 to 60 cm
front-mounted rotary slasher. This unit, which would only be introduced in
the 4th and 5th project year, is expected to be used for the minimum tillage
package, cultivating annually between 7-15 ha. For both mechanized packages,
the project would encourage commercial and small-scale farmers/groups to buy
their own tractors and implements for which credit would be made available.
Government has expressed a wish for the phasing out of the uneconomic THUs,
and farmers owning tractors would therefore carry out custom work for neighbor-
ing farmers for cultivation or for transport of produce to the market. Under
the ASP package, maize and rice lend themselves best to mechanized production,
although ridging for cassava would also be possible.
6.04      Since yam production is a very labor intensive crop and does not
fit in the minimum tillage crop rotation, cultivation of yams is not included
in the ASP package. However, efforts would be made to investigate the possi-
bility of at least partially mechanizing the ridging of yams and in finding
labor-saving methods of staking the yams. Although rice is mainly being
cultivated as a long-duration crop, the project expects also to introduce a
short-duration early maturing rice variety which could be followed by cow-
peas in the same year. Since harvesting of cowpeas is quite labor intensive,
cowpea production is expected to be carried out mainly by ASP minimum tillage
farmers. For successful cc,wpea cultivation, control of insect pests, parti-
cularly thrips, is essential, and a routine spray schedule will therefore be
introduced.
6.05      Minimum tillage techniques have been used in many countries and
are extensively applied in the United States, using conventional applicators
which require large quantities of water as a base for the herbicides.
Application in the project area would be more difficult due to problems in
transporting large amounts of water, and for this reason, the new CDA tech-
nique is preferable. These sprayers apply a blanket spray of minute drop-
lets, use very little water as a base and generally need far less of the
active chemical ingredient than conventional methods, thus minimizing
adverse environmental side effects. Furthermore, the proposed herbicides,
tested by IITA, work biologically in weeds, not as poisons, and have low
mammalian toxicity. Most are broken down upon contact with the soil, or
rapidly decomposed by soil micro-flora. The large-scale application of



- 29 -
minimum tillage farming to West Africa still remains a pioneering effort. The
problems in adopting this technology are mainly managerial, although some
technical problems also remain. The project's adoption rate of the ASP
program, about 5% of total farm families over 5 years, is rather conservative.
The intention, however, is to maintain flexibility of project design and
should the minimum tillage system 'take off' in the early years, the project
management would be expected to encourage wider adoption than assumed in
this report.
6.06      Using conservative figures for yield increases and machinery out-
puts, and using essential recommended farm inputs, it is estimated that the
increase in yield and cultivatable area brought about by the BSP and ASP
packages would raise average farmers' gross incomes to levels which should
make the enterprise economically attractive. For details on farm budgets,
see paras 9.01/03 and Annex 1, Tables 5-8. The exact percentage compository
of crops, particularly under ASP, can only be a matter of estimation, and
can be expected to change with economic factors and technical advances.
The overall area under cultivation will increase by about 4% over the 5-year
project period, due primarily to the introduction of labor-saving techniques.
Projected increases in the production of individual crops is shown in Table
3 below. The overall production in terms of grain equivalent is expected to
increase from 150,000 tons to 198,000 tons, a total increase of 31%, equal
to an annual compound growth rate of 4.6%. This compares favorably with the
existing national average agricultural performance of about less than 1% per
annum.
Table 3:   INCREASES IN PRODUCTION AND YIELDS
Incremental
Pre-Project      Production At        Production       Annual
Net Production    Full Development        Increase     Growth Rate
-------- metric '000 tons ---------     -----------%-------------
Maize              28.6                13.0               45              6.4
Rice                9.0                 5.1               57              7.8
Yams              112.4                 36.4              32              4.7
Cassava           228.6                49.3               22              3.4
Cowpeas             0.06                1.1            1,800            280.0
6.07      The poultry production package is expected to introduce 500 bird
layer units (battery system) to selected farmers, who are trained for 2 to 3
weeks in poultry management and preventive disease control. Layers would
start egg-laying after about five months at a rate of 160 eggs per year.
After 12 months of laying, the birds would be sold as meat, as egg produc-
tion would fall considerably thereafter, and would be replaced by pullets
reared by the farmer from day-olds purchased five months previously. Al-
,hough the project would introduce the package only on a pilot basis, it
is expected that once scientific poultry farming is established with train-
ing facilities provided, the feed and veterinary aids ensured, more farmers
would take up the package. Farm budget and cash flow projects are given in
Annex 1, Table 9.



- 30 -
6.08      The timely supply of farm inputs in adequate quantities is essential
for the uptake of new technoLogy. In the light of delays experienced in the
supply of fertilizer to the ongoing Bank-assisted projects, assurances were
obtained at negotiations that deliveries would follow an agreed time table,
the progress of which would be jointly monitored by FGN and the Bank, and that
the system of CFU procurement would be reviewed after two years. Fertilizer
would be procured through CF1J using international competitive bidding with the
same system of checks on timely supply as applied to other projects. Details
of annual farm input requirements are given in Annex 1, Table 10.
B. Land Development
6.09      Proposals for crop development under the ASP package would require a
total of 4,000 ha to be cleared and stumped. This would be mainly left to the
farmer, who, in any case, is clearing land under his present system to allow
for the usual fallow period. For some larger individual farmers and group
farmers following the conventional or minimum tillage mechanized farm systems,
assistance in land clearing would be available. It is expected that some
1,000 ha would be cleared by project machinery for about N500/ha during the
main rainy season, when road building and dam construction would be difficult
(para 5.14).
6.10      The Farm Management and Planning Unit would include the capability
to carry out land use surveys to advise farmers in the selection and planning
of their arable farms. It would also be responsible for preparing farm
plans and construction of conservation layouts on the project seed farm and
other Government farms. On private or group farms where such work is neces-
sary, it would design the farm and conservation layouts, but the farmer
would be responsible for construction under the supervision of the project.
C. Road Development
6.11      Detailed phasing and design criteria of the annual road program is
in Project File WP2.  The road program envisages simple earth roads, adequately
compacted with offshoot drains and drainage structures.  Design for roads
would follow existing Federal, State and Local Government standards, and
would vary with terrain, expected volume of traffic and the available build-
ing material. Road alignments would follow the watershed wherever possible.
Feeder roads would have a 7.3 m carriageway with 3% falls to "V" shaped side
drains 75 cm deep. The carriageway would be surfaced with suitable gravel
material to a compacted depth of 15 cm. These feeder roads should be capable
of withstanding axleloads of 10 tons and an anticipated traffic density of
up to 100 vehicles per day. Farm roads would have a 5.5 m carriageway with
3% falls to "V" shaped drains 40 cm deep. The carriageaway would consist of
local material excavated from the side drains, shaped and compacted. These
farmroads should provide access for light traffic of up to 30 vehicles per
day.



- 31 -
6.12      The project would undertake maintenance of both improved and new
roads for a period of 3 years prior to handover to the LGCs. The maintenance
program would include routine grading of the running surface and periodic
reshaping and replenishment of the gravel surface. Since the extent of road
development within the project area does not allow scope for individual LGC
road maintenance units, one central road maintenance unit would be established,
comprising two graders, two water tankers, two tippers, one roller and two
hand labor units. The unit would become operational in Year 4, and come under
the joint control of the LGCs. LGC staff attached to the maintenance unit
would receive on-the-job training in their various maintenance skills prior
to Year 4 by the Project Road Units. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that ONSG, in conjunction with the 5 LGCs would submit to the Bank for
review no later than September 30, 1983, workable proposals in respect to the
operation of the Road Maintenance Unit prior to the takeover of the Unit by
the 5 LGCs (paras 5.16 and 5.25(b)).
D. Water Development
6.13      The rural water supplies facilities proposed under para 5.15 would
only cover a small portion of what would be needed to service the entire
human and livestock population in the area. Measures for water supply pro-
posed for this project have the primary objective of filling a very important
short-term need in providing water to serve permanent farm settlements, par-
ticularly during the difficult five months annual dry season. Since at this
stage little is known about the ground water of the area, a large-scale well
or borehole program is not justified. Because hydrological conditions vary
from region to region, a local study will be carried out in the project area
to determine the ground water availability and subsequent investments in
water development (para 5.25(d)). It is recognized that the proposed surface
water supply facilities are not the most appropriate from the public health
point of view, and although bilharzia infections from washing in the dam
reservoirs remain, provisions would be made through the use of filters and
drawoff arrangements for clean drinking water. Dam maintenance, including
prompt repair of storm drains, removal of unwanted vegetation and termite
mounds, replanting grass, etc., would be carried out by the project before
handing over to the LGCs (para 5.16).
6.14      There are a number of fundamental aspects and issues concerning
rural water supplies common to Nigeria, such as: relative merits of wells,
boreholes and dams; the role of the LGCs and regional waterboards in con-
structing and maintaining water facilities; and quantitative and qualitative
levels of water required and its efficient distribution among the rural pop-
ulation. To assist in future planning, it is proposed that APMEPU, assisted
by consultants, should study and review some of these common problems on the
various ongoing agricultural development projects, and carry out trials with
water lifting and filtering devices and establish a set of recommendations.
For this, funds are to be provided under the proposed Bank loan for the
Kaduna State Agricultural Development Project.



- 32 -
VII. DEMAND, MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Demand
7.01      Nigeria is already a net importer of food and most studies predict
a widening food deficit over the next decade. The recent Agricultural Sector
Review projects the 1985 food deficit of around 6.6 million tons of cereal
equivalent, increasing to 10.6 million tons in 1990. Food imports have
risen sharply from US$77.0 million in 1970 to about US$1.2 billion in 1977
(para 2.06). At present the farming sector accounts for about 70% of the
total labor force, but this proportion is expected to fall as the migration
into the towns continues. The project area supplies food to two major urban
areas - Akure and Ado-Ekiti, in addition to the large towns of Ikole, Ikare
and Oke-Oka. The demand from these urban areas is expected to increase
substantially during the 1980s. No reliable data are available for the
area's food crop production and consumption, but reports suggest a net
import of grains into the area, partially offset by exports of processed
cassava (gari) and yams.
7.02      Rough mission estimates suggest that about 150,000 tons of grain
equivalent net of storage losses and seed retention are now produced annually
in the project area, compared with consumption of 170,000 tons (based on
annual per capita intake of 170kg of grain equivalent and a project area
population of 1 million). By full development total net food production is
expected to reach 198,000 tons of grain equivalent (excluding poultry). If
the population continues to grow at 2.5% annually, consumption in the project
area will have increased to 197,000 tons. It is therefore possible that
the area may move from food deficit to a small food surplus as a result of
the project. The project's surplus food and poultry production would make a
modest contribution to alleviate the general food deficit, which is expected
in the aggregate throughout the country where it should find a ready market.
B. Marketing
7.03      Almost all food-crop marketing in the project area is confined to
the private sector through local village or urban markets with cooperative
societies participating in the processing and marketing of cassava and yams.
It is unlikely this will change in the near future despite the formation of
the National Grains Board and the National Tubers and Root Crops Board. The
project itself would not become directly involved in food-crop trading but
would make a threefold contribution to efficient marketing in the project
area: by encouraging improved storage facilities through the provision of
maize cribs and insecticides; by constructing access and feeder roads to
improve produce evacuation; and by upgrading produce inspection and market
intelligence facilities.



- 33 -
C. Prices
7.04      Prices of food crops in the project area are determined almost ex-
clusively by internal supply and demand conditions rather than by prices pre-
vailing on the international markets. Since 1970 food prices in urban areas
in Nigeria have risen fivefold. This inflation is expected to continue but
a lower rate than in recent years. In the project area the market is favor-
able to producers and it is unlikely that the increased supply brought about
by the project will significantly affect food prices. One result of the
high internal inflation relative to world commodity price inflation, with
only partial offsetting exchange rate changes, has been a widening gap be-
tween domestic and imported grain prices. Domestic market prices of maize
and rice are approximately 50% higher than corresponding financial prices
of imports even after all duties have been added, indicating that arbitrage
is highly incomplete. This is primarily due to severe physical bottlenecks
in import capacity. These unusually high prices have made official guaranteed
minimum prices largely irrelevant to farmers' planting decisions and net
returns.
7.05      For calculations of project viability the economic prices for maize
and rice were based on IBRD import parity forecasts for world market while
observed market prices were employed for farm budget and cash-flow calcula-
tions. Both economic and financial prices of goods not traded internationally
(cassava, yams, cowpeas) were based on observed market prices. Price data
surveys are provided by MARD and MOFED; although such data are unreliable
and sometimes inconsistent, they were taken into account in arriving at
price estimates. Financial and economic prices are presented in Annex 3,
Tables 5/6, and are summarized below:
Table 4: FARM GATE PRICES OF INPUTS AND OUTPUTS
(Constant 1980 Naira)
Financial          Economic
1980/85            1980/85
Crops (m/ton)
Maize                              162/172             177/189
Rice                               182/230            230/258
Yam                                278                278
Cassava                            113                113
Cowpeas                            688                688
Poultry
Eggs (doz)                           1.89               1.89
Culled layers (ea)                   5.0                5.0
Fertilizer (m/ton)
NPK (15:15:15)                     233/260            277/309
CAN                                183/214            214/253



- 34 -
VIII. PROJECT ORGANIZATION
A. Organization and Management
8.01      The project embraces a range of activities which are at present the
responsibility of different ministries and institutions. Many of these acti-
vities are interdependent and successful implementation requires a very close
liaison or direction by a single management unit with a degree of autonomy
not normally associated with government operations. However, Ondo State al-
ready operates a statewide credit institution and is in need of a statewide
farm supply agency to service not only this project but also such projects
as the proposed Cocoa III project and the ongoing oil palm development
program. Thus under the project, OSACC would be strengthened sufficiently
to provide a relatively efficient credit service, and a commercial services
division would be establishetd to provide farm input supplies. The main part
of the project, involving civil works, agricultural programs, and specialized
farm technical services, would be undertaken by EAPMU which would have an
administrative structure to enable efficient implementation, while at the same
time retaining close liaison with adequate representation at the ministries
and institutions concerned with project actions.
8.02      Until now, each Bank-assisted project in Nigeria has established
its own project coordinating committee to be responsible for overall project
policy. However, now that flank involvement in the sector is increasing, and
with certain states operating as many as three or four Bank agricultural
projects, as is the case in Ondo State, it is considered preferable to
establish a single common committee for each state as has already been agreed
for Ondo State during the recent negotiation of the forestry project. This
would be called the Agricult:ural Projects Governing Board (APGB). This
approach would avoid duplication of efforts or inconsistencies in decisions
between different projects, and is thought more likely to attract high-level
support from the various participating agencies. Once the APGB is established
as an effective body, its role in state policy-making would not only affect
the Bank-assisted projects but would also be a forum for the formulation of
overall state policy for the agricultural sector.
8.03      The project would be implemented by a semi-autonomous management
body, the Ekiti-Akoko Project Management Unit (EAPMU) within the Ministry
of Agriculture and Natural Resources of Ondo State. The management unit
would be responsible to APGB which would be responsible for reviewing budget
and policy matters, not only for this project, but also for other Bank-
financed agricultural projects in the State. The advisory body to APGB would
be the existing Agricultural Planning Projects Technical Advisory Committee of
MARD, of which the Permanent Secretary is chairman. APGB would determine
common policy issues, have an overall view of agricultural project budgets
involving most of the State's agricultural allocations, 'ensure common condi-
tions of service, award major contracts, etc. APGB would comprise the Commis-
sioner MARD (chairman), Pernanent Secretary MARD, five members nominated by
the Ondo State Governor on the recommendation of the Commissioner of MARD,



- 35 -
a representative of the Ministry of Finance, a representative of the Ministry
of Works and Transport, a representative of the FMA and a representative of
other co-opted agencies of Ondo State. The CAPO would be secretary to the
committee. A condition of effectiveness would be that ONSG had, through
publication in the official gazette, established EAPMU and APGB with terms
of reference and composition satisfactory to the Bank.
8.04      EAPMU would take over the MARD agricultural responsibilities in the
project area except for forestry, fisheries and veterinary functions. During
the five-year development period of the project, EAPMU would administer most
of the agricultural development activities in the area including the small
existing LGC extension services. EAPMU would have a large degree of opera-
tional and financial autonomy but would liaise and coordinate its activities
with other relevant public agencies in the area to minimize duplication of
programs and to facilitate post-project management. Particular emphasis
would be placed on liaison with the LGCs, and a senior project officer
would be designated to coordinate project - LGC operations. The LGCs will
be in a formative phase, and at this crucial stage, the project would play
a highly constructive role in contributing to staff training and providing
advice and assistance in areas such as planning and budgeting.
8.05      The project organization is shown on Chart No. 20330.  The apex of
EAPMU would be the project manager's office, and this would include the key
administrative, financial and training divisions. Reporting to the project
manager would be four key divisions or units:
-    the Technical Services Division would be responsible for
smallholder extension, land use planning, farm management
advisory services, seed multiplication, and applied research;
-    the Engineering Services Division would be responsible for
dams, the construction of reads, the supervision of building
contracts and the operation of project workshops;
-    the Monitoring and Evaluation Division would monitor and
evaluate project technical, economic and financial progress,
collect planning data, conduct land use surveys, prepare
land planning data, and prepare comprehensive and frequent
market information; and
-    the Commercial Services Division would be responsible for
farm input supplies, seasonal credit administration, mar-
keting and cooperative development.
8.06      The Ekiti-Akoko Project Technical Advisory Committee (EAPTAC)
would be established once the project is operational. EAPTAC would serve
as a local coordinating unit for EAPMU. It would comprise representatives
of the LGCs and also other government agencies operating in conjunction
with the project. Selected farmers and project technical staff would also
be members. EAPTAC would play a particularly important role in siting the
group farms, farm service centers and roads, would review project-related



- 36 -
disputes, establish guidelines for land allocation (when necessary) and
provide a forum to ensure coordination of project and non-project activities.
Eventually, EAPTAC would evolve into a joint board that would coordinate and
execute activities of common interest to the LGCs concerned as provided for in
the edict establishing the :LGCs.
B. Staffing
8.07      Nigeria is generally short of trained and experienced staff with
the capability of initiating and implementing a development program such as
is described in this report. Experience from ongoing projects indicates that
the shortage is particularly evident at senior and middle levels of manage-
ment. The problem is further aggravated by the disparity between salary
levels in the public and private sectors, and by some State Governments'
reluctance to employ Nigerian personnel non-indigenous to the state. How-
ever, compared to some other states where Bank projects are under implementa-
tion, Ondo State is comparatively well staffed, although staff tend to be
concentrated in towns and there is some reluctance to accept rural postings.
Presently the state has about 868 agricultural staff, of which there are:
48 agricultural officers, 320 agricultural superintendents and 500 agricul-
tural assistants. Less than 5% of the total state agricultural staff are
involved with food crop production in the project area. Detailed incremental
staff requirements for the project are in Project File WP5.
8.08      The effectiveness of present staff deployment is limited by a short-
age of extension workers in the project area (1 to 4,000 farmers), poor roads,
lack of transport and the absence of defined work programs. Even though
statewide, the number of agricultural assistants is adequate, the majority
are deployed in the cocoa growing areas. The main shortfall in staff is in
the junior grades and it would appear that some redeployment of these grades
from other areas would be feasible until crash training of junior staff is
effected to fill the shortfall. Personnel trained by the project under crash
programs would be upgraded at a later date (para 5.21). Recruitment of per-
sonnel for many middle grade posts is possible provided salaries are suffi-
ciently attractive. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that MANR
would give high priority to EAPMU staff recruitment and as far as possible
promptly accede to EAPMU requests for secondment of MANR technical and other
staff to the project; and the project area LGCs would transfer their agricul-
tural extension and road staff to EAPMU for the duration of the project.
Assurances were also obtained that responsibility for all agricultural
extension work in the project would be transferred to EAPMU no later than
April 1, 1980. In the ongoing rural development projects, the Bank encouraged
State governments to identify and recruit suitable Nigerians for key positions
but in nearly every instance, the results were disappointing. The project has
therefore provided funds (cof up to US$7,000 per man-month) equivalent to about
US$85,000 per man-year, which includes US$30,000 base salary; US$18,000 per
post allowance, cost of living allowances and gratuity, US$12,000 for medical,
education and settlement costs, and US$4,000 for international travel
for international recruitment of the following key staff: for EAPMU the



- 37 -
project manager, chief accountant, chief of technical services, chief evalua-
tion officer, senior training officer, senior extension officer, chief devel-
opment engineer, senior buildings engineer, senior roads and water engineer,
workshop manager, seed processing specialist and poultry planning specialist;
and a commercial services manager; and for OSACC a credit specialist and
cooperative advisor (para 8.17). During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that persons with qualifications and experience and on terms and conditions of
employment acceptable to the Bank would be appointed to thse posts. The
appointment of the project manager, and chief accountant, would be a condition
of loan effectiveness.
8.09      During negotiations, it was agreed that the Nigerian authorities
would recruit on their own the international staff for this project through a
consulting firm acceptable to the Bank. The higher cost per man-year (see
Annex 2, Table 6) reflects the fees of the consultant firm contracted to
provide the key staff, including proper pre-project orientation. The signing
of a contract agreement to provide key staff, between ONSG and a firm accep-
table to the Bank would be a condition of Loan effectiveness.
C. Input Distribution and Farm Credit
Input Distribution
8.10      Currently, no agency exists in Ondo State for the adequate and
timely supply and distribution of farm inputs. Under the project, a Commer-
cial Services Division would be established for the purpose of supplying farm
inputs. However with the upcoming Third Cocoa Project (the two projects
together covering the most important two-thirds of the state) the agricultural
input supply distribution in Ondo State would be reviewed and ONSG may ulti-
mately decide to establish a Statewide Agricultural Input Supply Unit (AISU),
similar to that already existing in Oyo State. In that event the project
Commercial Supply Unit should be gradually amalgamated with AISU. In the
meantime fertilizers, chemicals, sprayers, poultry feeds and other essential
farm equipment would be procured directly by the project (fertilizer would be
an exception if FGN continues its present centralized procurement system).
Improved seeds would be produced on project farms, and by contracted out-
growers and sold to farmers through the 30 FSCs established by the project
(para 5.12). The latter would be constructed by contractors supervised by the
Engineering Department of EAPMU for operation by the Commercial Services Division.
8.11      From the very outset this project's input-supply unit would operate
on commercial lines so as to facilitate its eventual formation into a self-
financing input distribution company. The unit's commercialization would
however largely depend on its capacity to generate its own revenues. The
principle of allowing this unit fuel cost recovery for services and inputs
is therefore extremely important and was agreed upon with the state during
negotiations. In view of the government's existing fertilizer subsidy
policy, however, it may not be possible at project initiation to impose a
mark-up on its fertilizer sales, which are expected to be the single most
important revenue-generating item representing 80% of turnover. Where



- 38 -
possible the input supply unit would transact its business on cash terms. Its
operating funds and revenues would initially be made up of the interest
earnings (para 8.20) on credit in kind, and the revenues from sales of equip-
ment, seeds and other farm inputs. All income accruing to the input supply
unit would be credited to a revolving trading fund to be established under the
project, which would be reimbursed by the Government for procurement of annual
incremental farm inputs (para 5.33).
8.12      Farm Credit.  Where possible, the Commercial Services Division would
conduct transactions on a cash basis. However, credit would probably be
required for about 55% of total farm inputs (assuming present rates of sub-
sidy), both to ameliorate t'he farmer's cash flow difficulties and to provide
an important incentive for the adoption of new techniques. At present the
most important source of criedit in the area is non-institutional; i.e.,
friends, relatives, traders and local money-lenders. The most significant
credit institution for food crop production lending is OSACC (para 3.06).
8.13      OSACC, established in 1976 as the State's replacement for the old
Western State Agricultural Credit Corporation, has 46 loan offices located
throughout the State. First year recovery rates on OSACC seasonal loans for
food crop production have besen low -- about 50% (with about 38% collected
in arrears and 12% defaults) -- while recovery rates on cocoa marketing and
maintenance have been satisfactory (over 90%).  Although there is consider-
able need for improvement particularly in the staffing and the financial
management of OSACC, it is preferable to employ the existing expertise and
infrastructure rather than establish a new organization under EAPMU. Under
the project OSACC would be strengthened and would be responsible for the
provision of medium term credit to project farmers (para 5.12). In the
case of seasonal inputs, where individual loans would typically be small,
the project would extend such credit itself in kind in order to minimize
administration costs.
8.14      Seasonal Credit.  By using the project to provide seasonal credit, a
very flexible approach in the amount of available credit at any one time is
possible as the project's trading fund can simultaneously support sales for
cash or credit depending on the economic conditions prevailing at any given
time. Thus under present circumstances where fertilizer is highly subsidized
credit will not be provided. However this may not be the case in the future
and it is expected that some fertilizer, herbicides and pesticides would be
provided on credit to credit:worthy individuals and groups in order to
encourage adoption of new packages. By PY5 annual sales of herbicides and
pesticides are expected to reach N720,000 (US$1.1 million) in constant 1980
terms, N1.04 million (US$1.6 million) with price contingencies. Credit in
kind (up to 80%) would be provided by the project on these inputs. It may
also be necessary to provide credit in kind for improved seeds particularly in
the first year of their adoption by farmers. Sales of improved grain seeds
would by PY5 reach N150,000 (US$240,000) in constant 1980 terms, N290,000
(US$446,000) with price contingencies. Individual credit needs will vary
according to scale and type of farm operation and would be assessed by the
commercial services staff in conjunction with extension workers at the FSCs.
If credit in kind is provide!d on 75% of seasonal inputs, excluding fertilizer,
typical seasonal credit reqtLirements would be N40 for a 1.5 ha improved farm
and N285 for a 2.5 ha farm employing minimum tillage techniques.



- 39 -
8.15      Poultry feed would also be procured and distributed by the project
through the FSC's. Feed requirements for the first five months following the
start-up of a poultry farm would be supplied on credit to be repaid after one
year. Birds begin to lay after five months and it is unlikely that further
credit would be required for recurrent inputs after that time. In this way
credit would be provided in kind for about N100,000 (1980 prices) worth of
poultry feed annually.
8.16      Term Credit.  Capital farm inputs required by farmers adopting the
new BSP and ASP techniques are expected to total N3.5 million (US$5.4 mil-
lion) in current terms. Under the assumption of 90% financing and equal annual
repayments over five years, an additional N2.5 million -- including price con-
tingencies but excluding administrative expenses -- would be required in order
to maintain an adequate revolving fund. It is anticipated that about 25%
of the required credit would be available from the co-operative and commercial
banks, the remainder to be supplied by OSACC. OSACC's principal creditor
is the NACB, which has, since 1976, lent more than N17 million to OSACC.
Recently, however, funds have become scarcer due partly to Government con-
trolled low interest rates to the agricultural sector so that in 1978 OSACC
was able to borrow only N1 million (for cocoa marketing) from the NACB.
Despite the fact that NACB has loanable resources currently available,
it is proposed, nevertheless, that adequate funds (N2.5 million) would be
made available by ONSG for onlending specifically to OSACC for project-related
farmers' credit in case OSACC is unable to raise the required funds. Under
this approach, OSACC would transfer the appropriate funds to the project's
input supply unit on the delivery of the tractor or equipment to the farmer,
so that credit would still be provided to the farmer in kind rather than in
cash. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that adequate funds
(N2.5 million) would be provided by ONSG to OSACC as Government's equity in
OSACC, for on-lending specifically for project approved medium-term loans to
farmers, in the event that OSACC was unable to raise these funds.
8.17      The present low level of technical and managerial expertise is
undoubtedly a constraint on OSACC's operations; and the upgrading of OSACC
personnel would require a special training program and the short-term assign-
ment of experienced credit and cooperative advisor specialists to the OSACC
head office in Ado-Ekiti. The two specialists would be financed under the
project (para 8.08) and would have the responsibility of establishing effec-
tive accounting, financial and lending procedures at head office, and the
development of cooperatives and farmers' groups in the field. Both would have
important training functions and would be assisted in this area by the EAPMU
senior training officer. In addition, scholarships for training in agricul-
tural finance would be provided for OSACC employees both within Nigeria and
abroad. Further strengthening of OSACC would be undertaken, after detailed
appraisal, following the implementation of the third cocoa project, when it is
expected that a large volume of Bank money would be channelled through OSACC
via NACB for cocoa farm loans.
8.18      Long-Term Credit for Land Clearing.  During the project life, about
1,000 ha would be cleared mechanically by the project force account for indi-
vidual and group farming (para 5.14). The annual charge would be N50 per
ha and would allow for full recovery of development cost, including appropriate
interest charges. The repayment would be collected and retained by OSACC,



- 40 -
supplementary OSACC's equity, which would otherwise prove to be a serious
constraint. Total annual repayments from this source on the assumption of a
10% default rate would be approximately N45,000.
Terms of Lending and Credit Recovery
8.19      Seasonal loans in kind made by the project would bear a minimum
interest rate of 10%, as would the annual land clearing charge. This is
higher than OSACC's prevailing interest rates but lower than the projected
Nigerian inflation rate over the project life (15%). Thus under these condi-
tions, interest rates must be considered subsidized. During the ongoing
dialogue between the Bank and Government on this and other issues (para 2.17),
the Bank has argued the desirability of proceeding towards more realistic
interest rates which would, inter alia, allow for an adequate spread for the
lending institutions, and, at the same time would lead toward more positive
interest rates. On an individual project basis some progress has been
achieved, but Government continues to view its concessionary interest rate as
a means to reduce the farmer's production costs and hence encourage agricul-
tural investment. Development projects of the type proposed here, comprising
the bulk of recent Bank support to agriculture in Nigeria, contain propor-
tionately limited and rather insignificant credit components, and thus, are
not considered the best vehicle to bring about changes in the national agri-
cultural credit policy. At this stage, therefore, it has been agreed that
the previously agreed assurance (see Bida and Ilorin Agricultural Development
Loans 1667-UNI and 1668-UNI respectively) should be followed, and that project
interest rates for short-term production credit would be 10% or 2-1/2% above
NACB rate, whichever is higher. This formula allows for automatic adjustment
in the event of any significant general upward adjustment of the Nigerian
interest rate structure. Since the Bank is now exploring with Government
avenues to support future agriculture projects, in which by their nature,
credit, and credit institutions would play a central role, these projects are
expected to provide a better forum to obtain changes in agricultural interest
rates within the framework of the country's overall monetary policy.
8.20      Credit recovery for all installment repayments (medium and long
term credit) would be the responsibility of OSACC. Seasonal credit repay-
ments would be collected by commercial services staff agents at the FSCs. It
is anticipated that with improved staffing, financial control and an improved
spread OSACC recovery rates and earnings would improve significantly. In
addition OSACC loans to project farmers may be partially protected against
defaults under the Government-sponsored agricultural credit guarantee fund
scheme established in 1977. The 10% interest rate charged on loans would
cover all credit costs and add to retained earnings. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that EAPMU's lending rate to farmers would be 10% or
2-1/2 % above the NACB lending rate, whichever is higher. For a more
complete discussion of project-related credit, see Project File WP4.



- 41 -
D. Post-Project Development
8.21      The development proposals contained in this report are expected to
have a substantial impact on agricultural production and family incomes during
the five years of intensive development; such achievement, however, is meaning-
ful only if accompanied by sufficient institutional reform to ensure that
progress is sustained in the future. Although this is a subject requiring a
consensus within Government which cannot be prejudged at this stage, certain
guidelines have been proposed that will call for further amplification by
project management and Federal and State Governments during implementation.
8.22      It is essential that farmers continue to have access to timely sup-
plies of inputs, and hence it is important that the input supply unit and
OSACC are strengthened during the life of the project to become self-reliant.
The present government monopoly and subsidy structure tend to preclude input
supply organizations such as to be established under the project from applying
an adequate markup and this also acts as a barrier to the participation of the
private sector. It would be an important objective of project management to
seek ways in which the latter could participate in conjunction with this unit.
It is essential that the private sector is encouraged to expand into such
activities as tractor and equipment hire services to farmers and supply of
inputs through local retail outlets. Methods must be evolved which will
compensate for the present subsidies, which enable government institutions to
operate at uneconomic rates (para 2.17).
8.23      Since activities of the Technical Services Department and Training
Division are likely to remain as a continuing government commitment to agri-
culture, it has been staffed at levels appropriate for the long-term develop-
ment needs of the areas. The project area is part of one of five agricultural
administrative zones of the state, and it would be feasible to consider a
second stage under which each zone would come under the charge of a chief
agricultural development officer, whose responsibilities would correspond to
those of the project manager of this project. This is stressed as it is
important to view the project's administration as a possible spearhead to
strengthening the local government structure. The proposed expansion of
Funtua and Gombe Agricultural Development Projects to a statewide operation,
currently under appraisal and preparation, respectively would provide guide-
lines for post-project organization in other states, including Ondo.
8.24      While it is not yet clear how areas of responsibility will finally
settle down between the states and the LGCs, an important role must also be
expected for the recently reformed local government administration. There is
a need for a greatly strengthened mechanism for coordinating, planning, and
the implementation of rural development activities. The logical entity for
this role would be an appropriately staffed local government administra-
tion which would receive technical support from the project and would later
be extended to the zones described above (para 8.23). In particular the
LGCs would take over the road responsibilities of the project (para 6.12).



- 42 -
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that during the fourth year
of implementation, the Federal and State Governments, together with the Bank,
would review project progress and plans drawn up by the Evaluation Department
(in conjunction with APMEPU) and would make recommendations for the future of
project activities.
IX. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Financial Implications for Farmers
9.01      General.  Four farm models representing different systems of annual
crop production, and one for poultry, have been constructed. Production co-
efficients for these models are those in Chapter VI and Annex 1, Table 1, and
farm prices are observed 1978 market prices converted to farmgate (Annex 3,
Table 5). To show the effect of a likely removal of current subsidies on
farm incomes, farm budgets were calculated using both subsidized and unsub-
sidized prices. Depending on the cropping patterns and the working capital
needs of each farm type, the cash flows have been generally presented on a
time adjusted basis. Detailed farm budgets are presented in Annex 1,
Tables 5-9 and farm incomes, including home consumption are summarized in
Table 5 below:
Table 5: SUMMARY OF FARM BUDGETS
(Unsubsidized Costs)
Farm                       Farm Family         Income          Income
Model     Size      Farm System         Income         Per capita      per manday
w,OP      W/P  W/OP        W/P  W/OP         W/P
------------------ Naira -------------------
I     1.5 ha    Improved (BSP)   768       1073   110        153   3.1         3.9
(Manual)
II    1.5-2.5 ha Min. Til.(ASP)   980       1462   140         209   3.5        5.1
(Manual)
III    3.5-8   ha Min. Til.(ASP)   996       1968   142         281   3.0        5.5
(Mech.)
IV    6-10    ha Mech.    (ASP)  1642       3072   235         439   2.7        4.8
V   500 Layers Poultry Farm         -      3786    -          541    -          -
9.02     Basic Service Package.  The largest impact on individual farmers'
income would be made through the introduction of the BSP (paras 5.03 and 6.01).
Farmers' income would vary *both according to the combination of crops grown
and the extent to which the proposed technology is adopted. Using available



- 43 -
farm level socio-economic data, a 1.5 ha farm budget has been constructed.
This model (Annex 1, Table 5) would broadly represent an average family
farm adopting improved practices with all labor provided by the farm family.
Net family income could expect to increase from US$1,183 to US$1,652, ex-
clusive of subsidies, an increase of 40%. To achieve this increase, how-
ever, the farm family would have to increase the use of its available family
labor by some 70 man-days. Farmers are expected to do so, since the average
return per man-day would increase by about 25%. Provided participating
farmers receive a timely supply of inputs (including credit), t4e expected
annual increase in net farm income would be attractive enough to induce the
adoption of the BSP, particularly since there is little financial risk for the
farmer. Returns to farmers would be higher than shown in the model if farmers
vary the proportions of crops grown according to market fluctuations, as might
be expected.
9.03     Advanced Service Package.  About 5% of farmers in the project area
are expected to adopt wholly or partly the advanced techniques represented in
the other 3 crop farm models (Annex 1, Tables 6-8). The farm budget prepared
for the 2.5 ha manual minimum tillage model is expected to have a wider
adoption rate than the conventional mechanized (10 ha) and mechanized minimum
tillage (8 ha) farm models (paras 5.04 and 5.06). All three models would
have to use some hired labor which has been costed at N2.50/day (para 4.15).
The advanced techniques make it possible for farmers to cultivate larger
areas, and it is therefore assumed that some land would be cleared either
manually or by project machinery. Costs for this land clearing are included
in the cash flows presented. From the cash flows it can be seen that farm
credit would be a prerequisite for the successful adoption of these packages.
Benefits to farmers adopting the ASP are substantial. All 3 farm budgets
indicate major increases in net farm income and show fuller employment of
available family labor. In addition, the introduction of mechanized farm
systems would help to overcome the drudgery attached to farming, whereas
the adoption of minimum tillage would bring the farmer some other major
advantages, e.g., elimination of non-productive fallows and reduction in
soil losses (paras 5.05 and 6.02). Farmer response to the ASP program is
expected therefore to be high. However, commensurate with the relatively
high risks (para 6.05) and substantial loans required by each farmer, the
size of the ASP has been kept relatively small and should still be regarded as
a pilot program.
9.04     Poultry Package.  Annex 1, Table 9 illustrates the farm budget and
cash flow projections of a farmer adopting a small-scale commercial poultry
unit (para 6.07). Since capital investments for the individual farmers are
considerable (N3,200) and risks in poultry farming could be high, a rigorous
training course would be provided and technical advise and credit would be
made available by the project to farmers who have been carefully selected.
This would be a pilot program, but it is unlikely that there would be a
shortage of applicants due to the high financial return (73%).
9.05     Comparisons of per capita incomes based on farm budgets with income
data based on national accounts aggregates must be interpreted with caution



- 44 -
under the best circumstances. This is particularly true in Nigeria where
recent national accounts are unavailable and, moreover, available estimates
are often unreliable, mainly due to the use of conflicting GDP deflators.
Nevertheless, such comparisons would give a rough indication of the relative
economic position of project beneficiaries. According to latest Bank esti-
mates, Nigeria's national per capita income in 1978 was about US$450.  It
is clear from the farm budgets that without project farm incomes (US$169 per
capita for 1.5 halunimproved farm) are well below the national average and
close to the relative poverty level (US$150). With the project most per
capita incomes would range from US$236 to US$322 and would present a
significant improvement above present average conditions. These comparisons
indicate that the project would not only increase incomes of a larger number
of poor farmers in the project area, but would also help narrow the income gap
between the project area and other parts of the country, and between urban and
rural areas.
B. Financial Implications to Government
9.06     The project does not increase directly generated revenue to Govern-
ment as there are no taxes or cesses on farmers' produce. However, evidence
from the ongoing projects suggests that considerable secondary economic
activity develops in the non-agricultural sectors in the project area, and
there is a marked increase in spending on the part of beneficiaries on con-
sumer goods and services offered by the private sector. Thus, considerable
increases in indirect taxation can be expected, but precise quantification
of this is not possible. However, the implication to the State and Federal
Government during the Five-Year development period is outlined in the Financ-
ing Plan at Annex 2, Table 9. Thereafter to maintain the projected level of
agricultural activity and production in the project area ONSG would need to
spend about N2 million per annum (1985 constant), see Annex 3 para 3.
Cost Recovery
9.07     Full recovery of costs would be made wherever practical.  Insecti-
cides, herbicides, agricultural machinery and equipment and poultry inputs
would be sold to farmers at prices sufficient to cover procurement and
handling costs. Similarly, interest rates charged would fully cover costs of
credit administration and charges made for land-clearing would be unsub-
sidized. Under present Federal and State Government policies, substantial
subsidies exist on some farm inputs. Thus, for example, in Ondo State 70%-80%
subsidies are granted on fertilizers, tractor hire services and land-clearing,
although it is not unlikely that these rates will be reduced due to government
financial constraints. The farm budgets (Annex 1, Tables 5-9) show that
"'with project" incomes are sufficient to cover the unsubsidized costs of
inputs. Under the project only fertilizers would be subsidized and in this
case cost recovery in the sense of recouping the full financial value is
obviously not possible. However, subsidies need not preclude the allowance
of a mark-up to the procurement and distribution agency sufficient to



- 45 -
cover administrative costs and in this sense some cost recovery would be
sought even on fertilizer sales. During negotiations assurances were
obtained that all inputs and custom-hire services provided by EAPMU to par-
ticipating farmers would be sold at prices sufficient to cover costs, except
in those instances where an official subsidy is applied. In the latter case,
the federal and/or state government would, where warranted, refund EAPMU in
advance the value of the anticipated subsidy no later than September 30th of
the previous year (para 5.33).
X.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Project Benefits
10.01    The project would meet the Government's objective of increasing
food crop production and improving rural incomes. In addition, project
improvements would also benefit urban areas, as the rate of rural migration
may be expected to decline when rural life becomes more attractive. By
providing an assured supply of modern farm inputs, improved extension services
and better market access, the proposed project would support directly by Year
5 increased production from 40,500 ha. Some 70% of the project area farm
families, or approximately 490,000 people, would directly benefit from the
project. The cost per participating family would be about N500 (US$835),
excluding part of those costs that would benefit the wider rural population
(e.g., road and water development, the Evaluation Unit and Consultant Services).
Another 30,000 farm families would benefit less directly from the provision of
social, infrastructural and farm support services. When all beneficiaries are
included, the cost per family would be about N490 (US$818). The introduction
of simple technological improvements in production would help raise farm
productivity, thus improving farm incomes (para 9.01) and also the overall
food supply situation in the state. An expansion in local food supplies
should improve nutritional standards and, both directly and indirectly, reduce
reliance upon outside food supplies. The value of the incremental annual crop
production at full development is estimated (at 1980 constant economic prices)
at US$24.8 million. In addition, some 1.3 million dozen eggs and 100,000
culled layers would be produced under the poultry program, valued at US$3.75
million. Since Nigeria is a net importer of food, incremental project produc-
tion would be effective import substitution. After deducting the cost of
imported fertilizers and agro-chemicals, incremental production at full
development, if valued at forecasted border prices, would result in net annual
foreign exchange savings of about US$9.6 million, based on the assumption that
cereal equivalents would otherwise have been imported to make up for short-
falls in crop production.
10.02    The project's contribution to employment would stem mainly from the
regular work generated at the farm level and also from the jobs created
during the investment period. The mechanical package has been designed in
a manner that, although it would facilitate land expansion, there would be
no real labor displacement. In fact, improved cultivation methods or minimum
tillage practices would result in raising farm labor productivity -- which



- 46 -
inter alia, would reduce underemployment and help smooth cycles in farm
operations. At full development, the participating farms would require
annually an additional 8,300 man-years labor (240 man-days equals one man-
year), or an even average of 28 man-days for each participating farm family.
The farm budgets (Annex 1, Tables 5-9) and the annual farm labor requirements
profile (WP 1) show that for farms under about 2 ha there would generally
be no need to hire additional non-family labor since there would be adequate
family labor in surplus if it is assumed that 30 man-days of family labor are
available per month. About 20% of the incremental labor requirements would
probably be met by hired labor. The total incremental on-farm employment
generated by the project during the five-year investment period would be about
22,000 man-years.
10.03     Among some of the non-quantifiable benefits of the project are
the improved rural water supplies resulting from investments in construction
of 35 small dams and from the rural water supply study (para 6.14). It is
estimated that all-year-round potable water would be available to 50,000
people residing in the near vicinity of the water sources. The provision
of relatively pure water would help improve rural health by reducing the
prevalence of some waterborne diseases (para 6.13).
10.04    On the institutional side, by fostering appropriate organizations and
training of technical staff, the project would help improve the capabilities of
Ondo State MARD for implementing and planning future statewide rural develop-
ment projects. More specifically, the establishment of an input supply
organization and the strengthening of OSACC would contribute significantly to
the commercial development oF Ondo State as a whole, particularly in the light
of the proposed upcoming Cocoa III project, which may be able to establish a
statewide AISU.
10.05     One of the more important institutional features of the project is
the high priority given to training. Following the experience with existing
projects in northern Nigeria, the staff development officer would be a key
project staff member, and one of the first to be appointed. The benefits of
training would not be restricted to project staff, but farmers and cooperative
and LGC staff would be included. For example, training would be provided for
prospective poultry farmers and to LGC road maintenance personnel. In addi-
tion, a training and scholarship program would be introduced for OSACC staff
members (para 8.17).
B. The Economic Rate of Return
10.06    The economic rate of return for the overall project is estimated to
be almost 20% (Annex 3, Table 3). The net present value is estimated at N24.7
million (US$30.4 million) based on a discount rate of 11% thought to roughly
reflect the opportunity cost of capital in Nigeria. Streams of economic costs
and benefits over the five-ye!ar project investment period and the 30-year
project benefit period are presented in Annex 3, Tables 1, 2 and 3. Assump-
tions underlying the economic analysis are presented in Annex 3, page 1-2.



- 47 -
10.07    By the very nature of agricultural activity, there occurs a lag
between incremental inputs (including both capital investment and recurrent
input requirements) and incremental outputs generated by the project. If
economic benefits are included in the analysis at the same point in time as
the costs of the inputs required to generate those outputs, the result will be
an overly optimistic rate of return for the project. In order to take into
account this phasing of costs and benefits over time (and specifically over the
crop year), it is assumed that all farm capital costs and half of the recurrent
farm input costs are incurred in the year before their corresponding benefits
begin.
10.08     In estimating economic values of incremental costs and benefits all
identifiable taxes were deducted and a shadow exchange rate of Nl = US$1.23
(rather than the official rate (OER) of Nl = US$1.67) was employed in con-
verting foreign exchange costs into Naira. The difference between the shadow
and official exchange rates compensates for market imperfections such as ex-
change restrictions and protectionist policies which permit domestic and
foreign inflation rates to diverge with no offsetting official exchange rate
adjustments. If Nigerian and international inflation rates continue as at
present and the Nigerian authorities successfully resist downward pressure
on the exchange rate (e.g. by imposing further trade restrictions or by
borrowing abroad) then the gap between the SER and the OER would widen. The
SER employed is only an approximate estimate and, in the light of unreliable
economic statistics, inevitably subject to a high margin of error. If Nl =
US$1.23 were to be substantially different from the "true" April 1980 SER,
then the economic returns from the project would of course differ from those
presented. This question is considered under the sensitivity analysis.
10.09    The labor market in the project area was found to be quite segmented
with daily rates varying considerably according to location, season and (non-
skilled) occupation. The average daily wage for agricultural labor is esti-
mated at N2.50 and given the competitive nature of the market this may be
regarded as an approximate measure of labor's marginal productivity.
Incremental labor requirements are therefore costed at this rate for the
economic analysis. The effects on the economic viability of changes in
this rate are considered in the next section.
C. Sensitivity and Risk Analysis
10.10    The overall project would become unattractive  if its economic rate
of return fell below the opportunity cost of capital (OCC), assumed for
Nigeria to be about 11%. For this to occur, either total economic costs would
have to rise by about 22% or total economic benefits would have to fall by
about 18% (or some combination of the two). This is represented in Annex 3,
Figure 1.
10.11    The success or failure of the project depends on the accuracy of the
mission estimates of a number of key variables. These include: farmer



- 48 -
adoption rates, crop yields under the improved and advanced packages, the
economic wage rate, the shadow exchange rate, cost overruns and the relation-
ship of output prices to input prices. Sensitivity analysis was used to
determine which of these variables would be most crucial to the success of
the project. The "crossover" value is the value of the variable tested for
which the ERR of the project would equal the OCC and is a measure of how far
the variable can diverge from the expected value before the project becomes
economically unacceptable. When a crossover value is given for a variable,
it is assumed that all otber variables remain equal to their appraisal esti-
mate values. The numerical results are presented in Annex 3, Table 4, which
shows that overall the project is fairly resilient and is largely insensitive
to adverse variations in the assumptions. The probability of critical varia-
tions is discussed below.
(a) Farmer Adoption Rates. It is expected that 70,000 of the project
area's 100,000 farmers would adopt at least some part of the BSP or ASP by
full development on an additional 38,000 ha. If the adoption rate fell by
40% so that only 23,000 ha were placed under improved or advanced cultivation
during the project life, the success of the project would become marginal
(ERR = 11%). This is probably the major area of risk for the project since,
given the nature of smallholder farming, it is difficult to predict accurately
the level of farmer response. However, the estimated adoption rates are
fairly conservative and results from existing projects indicate that it is
unlikely that the actual rates will fall significantly below those predicted.
In addition the major thrust of the project is to promote the BSP which is not
too radical a departure from the farmers traditional cultivation practices.
(b) Crop Yields. Since increased yam production accounts for over 40%
of the economic return to the project, it is inevitable that results are
especially sensitive to yields on yam production. The crossover yam yield
is 9.0 tons/ha as against the appraisal estimate of 11 tons/ha. Crossover
yields for cassava are 6.5 tons/ha (BSP) and 8 tons/ha (ASP) as against
appraisal estimates of 8 tons/ha and 14 tons/ha respectively. The present
unimproved yield is estimated at 6 tons/ha. Given that the proposed tech-
nology for improved yam and cassava production is well tested, it is most
unlikely that incremental yields would be so low as to cause the project to
fail. From recent experience with similar smallholder foodcrop projects in
central Nigeria (e.g. Ayangba ADP) average yam yields of 15 ton/ha have been
recorded. Maize, rice, cowpeas and poultry production, which technologies
have been well tested, are relatively unimportant and the failure of any one
of them individually could not cause the ERR to fall below the OCC.
(c) The Economic Wage Rate. If the daily wage rate were to rise N4.40
(in constant 1980 economic terms) from the appraisal value of N2.50, the
project would become marginal. This 75% real increase in wage rates would
require a substantial tightening of the labor market which is unlikely during
the project life.



- 49 -
(d) The Shadow Exchange Rate. A falling value of the Naira results in
increased foreign exchange costs and increased benefits from internationally
traded commodities (maize and rice). Since the former outweigh the latter by
about 30% it is clear that if the exchange rate falls sufficiently, the project
will become unviable. The crossover value of the exchange rate is -N =
US$0.75, representing a 65% devaluation from the Nl = US$1.23 appraisal value.
The probability of such a radical policy measure is however extremely low.
(e) Capital Costs. Project capital costs would have to rise from an esti-
mated N14.5 million (NPV at 11% discount) to N39.2 million (a 171% increase)
to cause the project as a whole to become unviable.
(f) Output Prices. Project output prices as a whole would have to fall
by 18% (in constant 1980 terms) to cause the project to fail. Crossover values
for individual crops are presented at Annex 3, Table 4. Since the area is
expected to continue to import food for some time, it is unlikely that the real
price of food will fall (para 7.04).
10.12     Failure of Individual Packages and Project Delays.  The improved
techniques proposed under the BSP are well tried and relatively risk free.
Reasonably high adoption rates can confidently be predicted since the potential
increases in yields would be made clear to farmers through the demonstration
plots at the FSCs and financial risks faced by farmers would be small. How-
ever the success of the ASP cannot be predicted with such confidence. The
topography of the area is not ideal for farm mechanization and the introduction
of minimum tillage techniques is still largely experimental. If the ASP were
to fail completely (i.e. zero adoption), the return to the project as a whole
would however be largely unaffected (ERR = 19.5%). The poultry package has
less risk of failure than the ASP but must still be regarded as a pilot program.
Without the poultry package the return to the project would fall to 19%. If
the adoption of the new techniques is delayed one year the ERR falls to 16.8%.
10.13     Risks.  There are no unusual project risks.  Low farmer adoption
rates, which probably is the major area of risk for the project is not likely
to occur. Not only because of experience shown in similar smallholder proj-
ects in Northern Nigeria, but also that the major thrust of the project is to
promote BSP, which is not too radical a departure from the farmer's tradi-
tional cultivation practices (para 10.13). Project organization is structured
within the State's existing agricultural zonal administration and implementa-
tion problems are expected to be minimal. Failure to achieve anticipated
yield levels at full development, especially for the ASP is a potential risk.
However, the project's BSP is fairly simple, well-tested both at the research
station and farm level--therefore it is not likely that production and yield
results will be less than anticipated. For the ASP, risks are mainly confined
to the initial stages of technology adoption, when farmers may be somewhat
hesitant to accept an entirely new technology. Some technical difficulties
may be experienced at the introductory stage; however, in the long term the
importance of providing a stable farming system which could help check the
appalling deterioration of the derived savannah belts is so vital that it far
outweights the initial risks.



- 50 -
XI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
11.01    During negotiations, the following principal assurances were
obtained:
(a) ONSG would review annually with the LGC, the state MOW and EAPMU,
road and water ma:Lntenance and staff training requirements. On the
basis of this rev.Lew, ONSG would provide the LGCs and the MOW with
adequate funds for the above purpose (para 5.16);
(b) EAPMU would be responsible for preparing detailed terms of reference
on behalf of ONSG, for review by the Bank of any consultant prior to
his employment, and that all consultants would be appointed with
conditions of empLoyment, qualifications and terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank (para 5.26);
(c) EAPMU would submit the APGB-approved annual budget to FMA, MARD and
the Bank at least four months prior to each fiscal year and FGN and
ONSG would provide at least 3 months in advance their quarterly
contributions to the project in accordance with this approved annual
budget (para 5.31);
(d) Bank disbursements would be made directly to EAPMU's commercial
bank account (para 5.31);
(e) EAPMU would be authorized to establish overdraft facilities equiva-
lent to six month's project expenditures as estimated in the annual
State budget, and the overdraft would be guaranteed by ONSG (para
5.31);
(f) EAPMU would receive in advance (the previous September) subventions
from FGN and ONSG to cover the estimated cost of any subsidies
(para 5.32);
(g) project operating expenses are incremental to estimated existing
Government recurrent expenditures of Nl.l million per annum.
ONSG would continue disbursing these funds to the project in addition
to the incremental project requirements (para 5.32);
(h) audited accounts of EAPMU together with the auditor's report includ-
ing a statement aLs to whether Bank funds had been used for their
intended purpose, would be submitted to the Bank within four months
of the end of the fiscal year (para 5.35);



- 51 -
(i) fertilizer procurement under ICB would be undertaken according to a
strict timetable agreed between FGN and the Bank, who would jointly
monitor progress, and the system of procurement by CFU would be
reviewed after two years (para 6.08);
(j) ONSG, in conjunction with the 5 LGCs would submit to the Bank
no later than September 30, 1983, proposals regarding the running of
the Road Maintenance Unit, prior to the takeover of the Unit by the 5
LGCs (para 6.12);
(k) MANR would give high priority to EAPMU staff recruitment, and
as far as possible, promptly accede to EAPMU requests for secondment
of MARD technical and other staff to the project; and the project
area LGCs would ensure that LGCs road staff be trained under the
project road unit before the LGCs take over the responsibility for
project road maintenance (para 8.08);
(1) responsibility for all agricultural extension work in the project
area would be transferred to EAPMU no later than April 1, 1980
(para 8.08);
(m) according to agreed recruitment procedures persons as listed in para
8.08 would be appointed on terms and conditions and with qualifica-
tions and experience acceptable to the Bank (para 8.08,9).
(n) ONSG would guarantee that adequate funds (N2.5 million) would
be available for OSACC for on-lending to project farmers (para
8.16).
(o) EAPMU lending rate to farmers would be 10% or 2-1/2% above the
NACB rate whichever is higher (para 8.20);
(p) no later than at the end of the 4th project year, FGN, ONSG and
the Bank would review and make recommendations for the future of
project activities (para 8.24); and
(q) all inputs and custom hire services provided by the project to
participating farmers would be charged at sufficient level to
recover the cost to the project of the inputs and their handling
(para 9.07).
11.02     Conditions of loan effectiveness would be that:
(a) a separate bank account for the project, with an initial deposit
N2.0 million, had been opened with N1.0 million deposited by the
State and N1.0 million by FGN (para 5.36);



- 52 -
(b)  gazette notifications establishing EAPMU and APGB with terms of
reference and composition acceptable to the Bank (para 8.03);
(c)  the project manager and the chief accountant had been appointed
(para 8.08);
(d)  the signing of a contract agreement to provide key staff between
ONSG and a consultancy firm acceptable to the Bank (para 8.09).
11.03     On the basis of the above assurances and conditions, the project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$32.5 million.



NIGERIA
ONDO STATE
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Input and Estimated Yields per Hectare
PRODUCT        YIELD         SEED         FERTILIZER (kg)                  INSECTICIDES (kg) a.c.                  HERBICIDE              lABOR
7(kg)         (kg        Compound          Can        Seed          Field            -rore           (kg) a.c.          Manday/ha
MAIZE                                Grain
Unimproved                         "             750           15                                         /2    /1-   /3                            -                         81
Improved                                       1,400           20       200(15:15:15)        -       0.08    - -                     0.1 -          _                        104
Advanced (mech/conv)               "           2,400           20       200(15:15:15)   200          0.08      -                     0.15           2.5L Atrazine             45
Advanced (min. tillage
manual)                         "           2,400           20       200(15:15:15)   200          0.8      -                     0.15            1 L  Paraquat            55
3 L  Glyphosate
2.5L Atrazine
Advanced (min. tillage
mechanized)                     "           2,400           20       200(15:15:15)   200          0.8      -                     0.15            (as above)               44
YAM 
Unimproved                       Setts         6,500 L5   1,500          ----                                  -                     -                                       180
Improved                                      11,000        2,000       200(15:15:15)        -       -         0.5   Aldrin          -              _                        320
CASSAVA
Unimproved                       Tuber         6,000      Cutting        - ---                                                       -              -                        114
Improved                                       8,000           '        100(10:10:20)        -       -         -                                    -                        145
Advanced (mech/conv)                "         14,000          "          300(10:10:20)       -       -         -                     -              2.5L Primextra           126
Advanced (min. tillage                                                                                                                                               /6
manual)                         "          14,000          "         300(10:10:20)        -       -        -                      _              2.51 Alachlor 76         132
I L  Paraquat -
2.51, Primextra
Advanced (min. tillage
mechanized)                     "          m4,000          "         J00(10:10:20)        -       -        -
RICE
Unimproved                       Grain           600           40        ---(15:15:15)       -        -        -                     -                                       100
Improved                           "           1,200           50       100(15:15:15)   100          -         -                     -              _                        125
Advanced (mech/conv)                           2,000           50        150(15:15:15)   150          -        3.5L  Endosulphan  -                 -                         93
Advanced (min. tillage                                                                                                Pyrethroids
manual)                         "           2,000           50       150(15:15:15)   150          -         3.51  Endosulphan  -                 I L  Paraquat            102
5 L Propanil
COWPEAS
Unimproved                       Grain           150           15        ---                         -         -                   /7               -                         65
Improved                                         600           20       150(15:15:15)        -       -         0.15kg Synthetic --                  -                         75
3.51   Endosulphan
Advanced (min. tillage
manual)                                       600           20       150(15:15:15)        -       -        (as above)             -              2.51 Alachlor             50
Advanced (min. tillage                                                                                                      17
mechanized)                     "             600           20       150(15:15:15)        -       -        (as above) -          -               2.51, Alachlor
1/ Early sown crop is likely to escape attack of borers.
2/ Aldrin.
3/ Gamma Bhc/Actellic.
4/ Use only once in three years.
5/ Includes seed setta.
6/ Use only once in four years.
7/ Fumigation of atored seeds to be advised.                                                                                                                                               e x
March 26, 1979



- 54 -                                    ANNEX 1
Table 2
NIGERIA
ONDO STATE
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Development Program
Before
Development      Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5
-------------------------------- ha ------------------- --------
YAM
Unimproved                                  29,550        29,000      27,000      25,000      23,000      21,000
Improved                                       450         1,000       3,000       5,000       7,000       9,000
Total                                    30,000        30,000      30,000      30,000      30,000      30,000
CASSAVA
Unimproved                                  41,000        40,000      37,000      34,000      32,000      30,000
Improved                                     1,000         2,000       5,000       7,000       8,500      10,000
Advanced (mech)(conv)                          -             -  /1           1       750       1,500       2,250
Advanced Min. Tillage                          -             -  -        -  /        250         500         750
Total                                    42,000        42,000      42,000      42,000      42,500     43,000
MAIZE
Unimproved                                  41,500        41,000      39,500      38,500      36,500      35,000
Improved                                     1,000         1,500       3,000       4,000       5,000       5,500
Advanced (mech)(conv)                          -             -  /1       300         500       1,500       3,000
Advanced Min. Tillage                          -             -  -        200         500       1,000       2,000
Total                                    42,500        42,500      43,000      43,500      44,000     45,500
RICE
Unimproved                                  18,000        17,500      16,500      15,000      13,500      12,000
Improved                                       -             500       1,000       2,000       3,000       4,000
Advanced (mech)(conv)                          -             -  /1       375         750       1,125       1,500
Advanced Min. Tillage                          -             -  -        125         250         375         500
Total                                    18,000        18,000      18,000      18,000      18,000      18,000
COWPEAS
Unimproved                                     500           500/1       500         500         500         500
Improved                                       -                          75         250         375         500
Minimum Tillage                                -                 /1      225         750       1,125       1,500
Total                                       500           500         800       1,500       2,000       2,500
OTHERS
Sorghum, Millet, etc.                       14,500        14,500      14,500      14,500      14,500      14,500
Total                                  147,500        147,500    148,300    149,500    151,000    153,500
1/ Minimum tillage demonstrations to be carried out at 15 service centers at 0.2 ha/ea.
March 26, 1979



-55 -                                         ANNEX 1
Table 3
NIGERIA
ONDO STATE
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Production Projections
Tons
Before
Development    Year 1        Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5
MAIZE
Gross Production                 32,525        32,850       35,025       36,875       40,375       45,950
Storage Losses  /1                3,253         3,187        3,232        3,288        3,388        3,610
Seed Retention                       643          645          663          678          698          735
Net Production                   28,629        29,018       31,130       32,909       36,289       41,605
Home Consumption  /2             21,000       21,000        21,000       21,000       21,000       21,000
Marketed Surplus                   7,629        8,018       10,130       11,909       13,289       20,605
Incremental Production              -             389       2,501         4,280        7,660       12,976
YAMS
Gross Production                197,025      199,500       208,500      217,500      226,500      235,500
Storage Losses  /1               39,404       38,800        38,400       38,000       37,600       37,200
Seed Retention                   45,225       45,500       46,500        47,500       48,500       49,500
Net Production                  112,396      115,200       123,600      132,000      140,500      148,800
Home Consumption  /2             98,000        98,000       98,000       98,000       98,000       98,000
Marketed Surplus                 14,396        17,200       25,600       34,000       42,400       50,800
Incremental Production              -          2,804       11,204        19,604       28,004       36,404
CASSAVA
Gross Production                254,000      256,000      262,000       274,000      288,000      302,000
Storage Losses /1                25,400       24,500       24,200        23,900       24,000       24,100
Net Production                  228,600      231,500       237,800      250,100      264,000      277,900
Home Consumption  /2            122,500      122,500      122,500       122,500      122,500      122,500
Marketed Surplus                106,100       109,000      115,300      127,600      141,500      155,400
Incremental Production              -          2,900         9,200       21,500       35,400       49,300
RICE
Gross Production                 10,800       11,100        12,100       13,400       14,700       16,000
Storage Losses  /1                1,080        1,080         1,100        1,120        1,140        1,160
Seed Retention                      720           725          735          750          765          780
Net Production                     9,000        9,295       10,265       11,530       12,795       14,060
Home Consumption  /2             10,500       10,500        10,500       10,500       10,500       10,500
Marketed Surplus                  (1,500)      (1,205)        (235)       1,030        2,295        3,560
Incremental Production              -             295        1,265        2,530        3,795        5,060
COWPEAS
Gross Production                      75           75          255          675          975        1,275
Storage Losses  /1                     8            8           17           38           54           68
Seed Retention                         8            8           14           28           38           48
Net Production                        59           59          283          609          883        1,159
Home Consumption  /2                 700          700          700          700          700          700
Marketed Surplus                    (641)        (641)        (417)         (91)         183          459
Incremental Production              -            -             224          550          824        1,100
1/ Based on storage losses of 20% yams, 10% others unimproved; 10% yams, 5% others with BSP or ASP.
2/ Based on approximate per capita consumption of 30 kg maize, 15 kg  rice, 140 kg (fresh)yam, 175 kg
(fresh) cassava, 1 kg cowpeas p.a. for 100,000 farm families - 7 per family.
March 26, 1979



- 56 -                                 ANNEX 1
Table 4
NIGERIA
ONDO STATE
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Development - Poultry
Year 1      Year 2        Year 3      Year 4       Year 5
1.  Farmer level
Units of 500 layers
each 1/                    -              50           50          50           50
No. of day-old female
chicks required 2/         -          25,000       50,000      75,000     100,000
Yearly egg production
(million) @ 160 eggs       -               4            8          12           16
Feed required (tons) .j    -            1,250        2,500       3,750        5,000
2.  Project level (breeding unit)
No. of layers               -             500        1,000       1,500        2,000
Annual day-old chick
production                 -          80,000      160,000    240,000       320,000
Hatchable eggs              -          50,000      100,000    150,000       200,000
Female D.O.C.               -          25,000       50,000      75,000      100,000
Feed required (tons)        -              35           70         105          140
3.  Project level (commercial
layer unit)
Unit of 500 birds           -               1            1           1            1
Annual egg production
@ 180 eggs ('000)          -              90           90          90           90
Feed required               -              25           25          25           25
1/ New units each year.
2/ Stock will be replaced after 12 months of laying.
3/ For five months of growing period and 12 months of laying period.
4/ Feed for unsold males will also be needed.
March 26, 1979



-57-                                            ANNEX 1
Table 5
NIGERIA
ONDO STATE
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 1: 1.5 ha Farm Budget (Improved Cultivation)
(Naira)
Without Project                      With Project
(at full development)
With Subsidy      Without Subsidy
Farm Production 1/             640                      1,145                1,145
INPUTS 2/
Seed                        104                        138                  138
Fertilizer                   -                            9                  48
Insecticide                                               9                   9
Storage                       2                          5                    5
Tools                         5                          15                  15
Total Inputs                   111                         176                 215
FINANCING 3/
Short-term loan              -                          32                   68
Debt servicing               -                           35                  75
NET INCOME
Total                       529                        966                  923
Incremental                  -                         437                  394
RETURN PER HA                  353                         644                 615
MAN-DAYS REQUIRED 4/           169                         240                 240
RETURN PER MAN-DAY               3.13                        4.02                 3.85
HOME CONSUMPTION 51            404                         404                 404
OFF-FARM INCOME               239                         150                 150
NET CASH BALANCE               364                         712                 669
1/ Net of on-farm storage losses; yams 20%, others 10% without project; yams 10%,
others 5% with project. Farm production based on the following cropped areas:
Maize       0.42
Yam         0.3
Cassava    0.42
Rice        0.18
Cowpeas    0.1
Other       0.08
2/ See Working Paper 3, Table 1.
3/ 75% financing of farm inputs with project (except fertilizer, when subsidized and
including improved seeds only). Repayment after 12 months at 10% interest.
4/ For annual labor profile see Working Paper 3, Table 2.
5/ Based on per capita consumption of 60 kg maize, 30 kg rice, 100 kg (fresh) yams,
100 kg (fresh) cassava, 14 kg cowpeas, plus share of 'other crops' for 7-member family.
6/ Based on 360 family man-days per year. 50% residual days at N2.50 per day.
March 26, 1979



- 58 -                                                  ANNEX 1
Table 6
NIGERIA
ONDO STATE
EI'I-AROKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARM BUDGET AND CASH FLOW PROJECTION
Model 2: 2.5 ha Farm Budget Minimum Tillage (Manual Cultivation)
(Naira)
WITH SUBSIDY                                     WITHOUT SUBSIDY
Without                                          Without
INFLOW                          Project        1          2          3            Project        1          2          3
Farm Production J/            1,145      1,145      1,945       1,945           1,145      1,145      1,945      1,945
OUTFLOW
Land Clearing 2/                -           250        -          -               -          250        -          -
Capital 3/                       -          195        -           35             -          195        -            35
Capital Operating               -          -            15         15             -          -           15          15
Farm Inputs                      176        176        319        319             215        215        427         427
Incremental Operating 4/        -            85        -          -               -          110        -          -
NET BENEFITS B.F. 5/
Total                            969        439     1,611       1,576             930         375     1,503      1,468
Increnental                     -          (530)       730        695             -          (555)      658        623
FINANCING
Loan Receipt
L.T. 6/                    -          470        -           33              -          470        -           33
S.T. 7/                      32       188        250        250               68        233        332        332
Debt Service
L.T. 8/                    -          -          124        124              -          -          124        124
S.T. 9/                     35        136        207        275               75        166        257        365
NET BENEFITS A.F. 10/
Total                            966        961     1,530       1,460              923       912      1,454      1,344
Incremental                     -           (5)        661        591             -          (11)       624        514
RETURN PER HA                       644        -          -          584              553                              538
MAN-DAYS REQUIRED 11/               240        360        266        266              240        360        266        266
RETURN PER MAN-DAY                    4.D2                             5.49             3.85                             5.05
HOME CONSUMPTION  12/               404        404        404        404              404        404        404        404
OFF FARM INCOME   13/               150        -          118        118              150        -          118        118
NET CASH BALANCE                    712        557      1,244      1,174             669        508      1,168       1,058
1/ Net of on-farm storage losses: yam 20%, other crops 10% pre-project; yam 10%, others 5% post-project.
Farm production based on:
Without Project ha (improved)           With Project ha (minimum tillage)
Maize                        0.42                                         1.0
Yam                          0.3                                          0.3
Cassava                      0.42                                        0.5
Rice                         0.18                                         0.18
Cowpeas                      0.1                                          0.44
Others                       0.08                                         0.08
Total                     1.5                                         2.5
2/ 1 ha cleared manually, Year 1, reqluiring 200 man-days.  100 provided by family labor.  Only 100 costed at
N2.50 per day.
3/ Planter, fertilizer, distributor, e3prayer (with batteries), hand tools, maize cribs (capacity 1.2 tons).
4/ 50% incremental capital operating aLnd farm inputs brought forward one period to add realism to phasing of
cash flow.
5/ B.F. - Before Financing.
6/ 95% financing for capital expenditujre and hired labor for land clearing.
7/ 75% financing for all operating expenses.
8/ Based on annuity payments over lifie of capital (see Working Paper 3, Table 6) and annuity payments over
5 years for land clearing costs, both compounded at 10%.
9/ Repayment after one year at 10% interest.
10/ A.F. - After Financing.
I1/ Not including labor required for land clearing.
il/ See footnote 5 of Annex 1, Table 5.
13/ Total available family farm labor astimated at 360 days p.a. 50% of residual assumed to earn off-farm wages
or p2.50 per day.
March 26, 1979



-59                                                         ANNEX 1
Table 7
NIGERIA
ONDO STATE
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARM BUDGET AND CASH FLOW PROJECTIONS
Model 3: 8 ha Farm Budget Minimum Tillage (Mechanized Production)
(Naira)
WITH SUBSIDY                                          WITHOUT SUBSIDY
Without                                                 Without
Project      1          2         3         4           Project      1         2        3         4
INFLOW
Farm Production  1/      1,447    1,785        5,529    7,062    7,062            1,447    1,785    5,529    7,062    7,062
Tractor Rental  2/            -      200         400       400       400              -       200      400       400       400
OUTFLOW
Land Clearing  3/             -    1,250       1,250         -         -              -    1,250    1,250          -         -
Capital  4/                   -    2,990          70        70        70              -    2,990         70       70        70
Capital Operating             -        -         838       838       838              -         -      838       838       838
Farm Inputs                 244      244       1,180    1,544    1,544              328       328    1,632    2,162    2,162
Incremental Operating 5/    -        887         182         -         -              -    1,071       265         -         -
NET BENEFITS B.F.
Total                     1,203   (3,386)      2,409    5,010    5,010            1,119   (3,654)   1,874    4,392    4,392
Incremental                   -   (4,589)      1,206    3,807    3,807                -   (4,773)      755    3,273    3,273
FINANCING
Loan Receipt
Long-term  6/             -    3,816        1,012         -         -              -    3,616    1,012          -         -
Short-term  7/          183       848       1,650    1,785    1,785              246    1,049    2,051    2,250    2,250
Debt Service
Long-term  8/             -         -         925    1,051    1,051                -         -      925    1,051    1,051
Short-term  9/          201       201         933    1,830    1,964              271      271    1,154    2,256    2,475
NET BENEFITS A.F.
Total                    1,185    1,077        3,213    3,914    3,780            1,094       940    2,858    3,371    3,116
Incremental                   -     (108)      2,028    2,729    2,595                -       (54)   1,764    2,277    2,022
RETURN PER HA                  339         -           -        -       473            313         -         -         -      389
MAN-DAYS REQUIRED  10/         399       566         733      819       819            399       566       733      819       819
RETURN PER MAN-DAY               2.97      -           -        -         4.62           2.74      -         -         -        3.80
HIRED LABOR COST  11/           98       515         933    1,148    1,148              98       515       933    1,148    1,148
RETURN PER FAMILY MAN-DAY        3.29      -           -        -         7.31           3.03      -         -         -        5.47
HOME CONSUMPTION               404       404         404      404       404            404       404       404       404      404
NET CASH BALANCE               683       158      1,876    2,362    2,228              592        21    1,521    1,819    1,564
1/ Net of on-farm storage losses; yams 20%, others 10% without project; yams 10%, other 5% with project.
Farm production based on following areas planted:
Year 1            Year 2 Onward
Without Project            (minimum              (minimum
(improved)               tillage               tillage)
ha
Maize                      2                        5                    7
Cowpeas                    1                       5                     7
Yam                        0.25                     0.5                  0.5
Cassava                    0.25                     0.5                  0.5
3.50                    6.0                   8.0
2/ Principally for transportation - includes value of tractor use to owner for non-production activities e.g. transport to
market.
3/ 2.5 ha cleared in Year 1; 2.5 ha cleared in Year 2.
4/ Chieftain (with attachments), 2 CDA sprayers, maize cribs.
5/ 50% incremental recurrent costs brought forward one year to add realism to cash flow.
6/ 90% financing of capital and land clearing costs.
7/ 75% financing of all operating costs.
8/ Based on annuity payments over life of machine (see Working Paper 3, Table 6), and 50 year repayment on land clearing, all
compounded at 10%.
9/ Repayment in 12 months at 10%.
10/ See Working Paper 1, Table 2 for labor requirements profile.
11/ Based on 30 family man-days available per month.
March 26, 1979



- 60 -                                             ANNEX 1
Table 8
NIGERIA
ONDO STATE
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GROUP FARM BUDGET AND CASH FLOW PROJECTION
Model 4: 50 ha Farm Budget Mechanized Production
(Naira)
WITH SUBSIDY                                           WITHOUT SUBSIDY
Without                                                  Without
Project      1        2         3         4              Prolect      1         2         3         4
INFLOW
Farm Production  1/            13,066   13,066   23,990   36,038   36,038               13,066   13,066   23,990   36,038   36,038
Tractor Rental  27                  -         -    2,100    2,100    2,100                    -        -    2,100    2,100    2,100
OUTFLOW
Land Clearing  3/                   -    2,800   15,000           -        -                  -    2,500   15,000          -         -
Capital  4/                         -   26,300          -        -         -                  -   26,300         -         -         -
Capital Operating                   -         -    4,837    5,489    5,489                    -        -    4,837    5,489    5,489
Farm Inputs                     1,578    1,578    2,794    4,315    4,315                2,508    2,508    4,622    6,895    6,895
Incremental Operating  5/           -    3,026    1,087          -         -                  -    3,475    1,463          -         -
NET BENEFITS B.F. 6/
Total                          11,488  (20,338)   2,372   28,334   28,334               10,538  (21,717)       168   25,754   25,754
Incremental                         -  (31,826)  (9,116)  16,846   16,846                     -  (32,275) (10,390)  15,196   15,196
FINANCING
Loan Receipt
Long-term  7/                    -   26,300   15,000          -         -                 -   26,300   15,000           -        -
Short-term   8/              1,183    3,453    6,539    7,353    7,353                1,881    4,487    8,196    9,288    9,288
Debt Service
Long-term  9/                    -         -    5,571    6,832    6,832                   -         -    5,571    6,832    6,832
Short-term  10/              1,302    1,302    3,798    7,192    8,088                2,069    2,069    4,936    9,011   10,217
NET BENEFITS A.F. 6/
Total                          11,369    8,113   14,542   21,663   20,767               10,370    7,001   12,857   19,200   17,993
Incremental                         -   (3,256)   3,173   10,294    9,398                     -   (3,369)   2,487    8,830    7,623
RETURN PER HA                        379         -         -         -      415                346         -        -         -       360
MAN-DAYS REQUIRED  11/             3,865    3,360    3,556    4,265    4,265                 3,865    3,360    3,556    4,265    4,265
RETURN PER MAN-DAY                     2.94      -         -         -       4.86                2.68                                   4.22
COST OF HIRED LABOR  12/           2,160    1,535    1,756    2,637    2,635                 2,160    1,535    1,756    2,637    2,635
RETURN PER FAMILY MAN-DAY               3.07     -         -         -         5.65              2.74      -        -         -         4.78
HONE CONSUMPTION  13/              4,130    4,130    4,130    4,130    4,130                 4,130    4,130    4,130    4,130    4,130
NET CASH BALANCE                   5,079    2,448    8,656   14,896   14,002                 4,080    1,336    6,971   12,433   11,228
1/ Net of on-farm storage losses: Yams 20%, others 10% without project; yams 10Z, others 5% other project.
Farm production based on following areas planted:
Without Project              Year 1             Year 2 Onwards
(improved)             (mechanized)            (mechanized)
ha
Maize                 20                       22                     30
Rice                    5                       7                     10
Yams                    2.5                      3                     5
Cassava                2.5                      3                      5
30.0                    35                     50
2/ Tractor rented out for 120 hours annually for ploughing (N15/hr) and 30 hours for transporting (N10/hr).
3/ 5 ha cleared manually Year 1 (200 hrs at N2.50/hr); 25 ha cleared mechanically by project force account (N500/ha), plus 5 ha
cleared manually in Year 2.
4/ Includes tractor (45 kw), plough, harrow, ridger, planter, sprayers and trailer (see Working Paper 3, Table 6).
5/ B.F., A.F. - Before and after financing.
7/ 100% financing on capital inputs and mechanical clearing. No credit for manual clearing.
8/ 751 financing for all operating costs.
9/ Based on annuity repayments over life of machines (see Working Paer 3, Table 6) and repayments over 50 years for land clearing
costs, all compounded at 10%.
10/ Repayment after 12 months at 10%.
11/ See Working Paper 3, Table 2-3 for annual man-day requirements profile.  Excludes labor requirements for manual clearing.
12/ Based on 30 family man-days available per month. Hired labor at ?12.50/hr.
13/ Based on an equivalent per capita consumrtion of 60 kg maize, 30 kg rice, 100 kg (fresh) yams, 150 kg (fresh) cassava, 20 kg
cowpeas per annum.
March 26, 1979



- 61 -                              ANNEX 1
Table 9
NIGERIA
ONDO STATE
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
,,
FARM BUDGET AND CASH FLOW PROJECTION
Model 5: Poultry Farm Budget (500 Layers)
(Naira)
Unit Cost         1       2          3
INFLOW
Eggs  1/                               Nl.50/doz.        -    10,000    10,000
Culled Layers  2/                      N4 each           -      2,000      2,000
Total Income                                          -    12,000    12,000
OUTFLOW
Capital  3/                                          3,205          -          -
Day-old Chicks  4/                     NO.5 each       275        275        275
Feed  4/                               NO.22/kg      1,778      6,050      6,050
Other                                                   20         50         50
Total Expenditure                                 5,278      6,375     6,375
NET BENEFITS B.F.  5/ (excluding labor)                (5,278)    5,625       5,625
LABOR COSTS (inputed)  6/                 N2.50 day    1,100         913        913
NET BENEFITS B.F. (including labor)                    (6,378)    4,712       4,712
FINANCING
Loan Receipt
Long-term                                         3,205          -          -
Short-term                                        1,950          -          -
Debt Service
Long-term                                             -        522        522
Short-term                                            -     2,145           -
CASH BALANCE A.F.  5/ (excluding labor costs)            (123)    2,045       4,190
CASH BALANCE (after expenditure on food)  7/             (536)
Financial Rate of Return (with inputed labor co$ts included) = 71%
1/ Based on 160 eggs per hen in 12 months after 5 months growing period.
2/ Birds culled after 17 months. First income (N2,000) end Year 2/Beginning Year 3.
3/ Poultry shed (N1,080), canopy breeder (N125), battery cages (N2,000).
4/ Costs inflated 10% to allow for mortality. First year only 5 months feed costs
for 550 birds.
5/ B.F., A.F.: Before and after financing. It is assumed that negative cash flow
can be financed from savings.
6/ All labor is from farm family. Cost inputed for purpose of estimating financial
rate of return. First year includes labor component in poultry shed construction.
7/ Family food consumption p.a. estimated at N413 (see Model 4). This is substracted
to aid comparison with other farm model cash flows.
March 26, 1979



- 62 -                                     ANNEX 1
Table 10
NIGERIA
ONDO STATE
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sumary of Farm Input Requirements
Before
Development      PYl       PY2       PY3       PY4       PY5
A. Agro-Chemicals (tons)
Compound
BSP                            390         750    1,811    2,738   3,606         4,375
ASP(C)                          -            -       116       438      919      1,500
ASP(MT)                         -            -        93       325      575        900
Seed Farm                       -             7       12        16       24         30
Total                      390         757    2,032    3,517   5            6,805
CAN
BSP                             -            50      100       200      300        400
ASP(C)                          -            -       123       225      487        850
ASP(MT)                         -            -         61      142      263        483
Seed Farm                       -             7       11        12       34         60
Total                       -           57       295       579   1,084      1,793
Herbicide 2;L
ASP(C)                          -            -          0.3       2.7     5.9        9.6
ASP(MT)                         -            -          2.0       6.1    10.7       17.4
Seed Farm                       -             0.03     0.1       0.1      0.1        0.1
Total                       -            0.03      2.4       8.9    16.7        27.1
Insecticide 2/
BSP                               0.3         0.6       1.8      3.3      4.6        5.8
ASP(C)                            -           -         0.8       1.6     2.6        3.8
ASP(MT)                          -            -         1.2      3.5      5.4        7.3
Seed Farm                        -            0.04     0.1       0.2      0.2        0.3
Total                        0.3         0.64      3.9       8.6    12.8        17.2
B. Poultry Feed (tons)
Farmers                             -           -    1,250    2,500   3,750        5,000
Project Unit                        -           -        60        95     130        165
Tctal                        -           -    1,310    2,595   3,880        5,165
C.  Equipment (no. units)              3/
Conventional Mechanized Package -               -         3         2      10         15
Seed Farm Requirements                        3        -         -       -          -
Minimum Tillage (Mechanized)
Package 4/                                     -         -         -      50         50
Minimum Tillage Manual Package 5/               -       650    1,350      750      1,750
Additional Sprayers                           -         -        -      216        500
Batteries (sets of 8)                         -      860    2,500   3,600        6,050
Maize Cribs 6/                                700    2,800    2,100   3,500        4,200
Poultry Package 7/                             -         50        50      50         50
1/ Basis: Alachlor.
2/ Basis: Aldrin (Seed), Actellic EC (Store).
3/ Sets include tractor (45 kw), disc plough, disc harrow, disc ridger, 4-row
planter, sprayer, trailer', maize sheller.
4/  Chieftain mini-tractor (3.75 kw) plus attachments.  ULV sprayer replaced every year.
5/ ULV sprayer, planter, fertilizer applicator, hand tools. ULV sprayer renewed
every two years. One sprayer to 3 farmers. One planter and fertilizer appli-
cator to 10 farmers.
6/  Units are m3.  50% of all improved and advanced maize stored in cribs.
7/ Poultry sheds (30'x20'), canopy breeder, battery cages (500).
ASP(C): Conventional mechanized.
ASP(MT): Minimum tillage,
March 26, 1979



NIGERIA
ONDO STATE
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Project Costs
By Section
(N'O00)
Foreign
Exchange             Taxes
PYl        PY2        PY3         PY4         PY5         Total     %       Amount    %    Amount
Project Management
and Administration              1,439.8      431.7      377.2       425.4        397.3    3,071.4   29         904.5    7       206.8
Evaluation Unit                     236.9      145.2       135.6       158.7       145.2       821.6   37        304.1    4        30.9
Commercial Services               1,995.6   1,785.8   1,058.0          643.3       578.2    6,060.9   30    1,803.5    8          469.6
Training                            391.9      300.5       263.3       246.7       209.3    1,411.7   38         539.7    6        86.3
Technical Services
Extension                      977.9      582.5      731.5       907.1       957.7    4,156.7   20          849.3    4       167.2
Farm Mgmt./Planning            548.7      244.5      218.8       218.8       218.8    1,449.6   32          457.9    6        83.5
Seed Multiplication            606.2      235.8      195.0       248.8       195.0    1,480.8   38          555.7    8       123.9
Livestock                      363.4      121.9      133.6       179.3       147.6        945.8   39        371.1    6        56.3             1
Sub-total (Tech. Svcs.)2,496.2   1,184.7   1,278.9    1,554.0    1,519.1    8,032.9   28    2,234.0    5                 430.9
Engineering
Roads and Water              3,341.7   1,756.4   2,157.9    2,224.4    1,540.8   11,021.2   42    4,657.4    5               597.4
Buildings Section              423.5      246.6      174.5       250.3       174.5    1,269.4   35          443.6    7        84.4
Workshop                       646.0      301.9      211.7       298.5        211.7    1,669.8   34         567.3    7       114.9
Sub-total (Engineer-ing)4,411.2   2,304.9   2,544.1    2,773.2    1,927.0   13,960.4   41    5,668.3    6                796.7
Farm Inputs                         194.4   1,136.4   1,250.6    1,711.4    2,018.8    6,311.6   52    3,295.9    -                 -
Consultant Services
and Studies                      252.0       32.4       43.2         48.6        37.8       414.0  100        414.0    -         -
Minus Existing Expenditures    1,100.0   1,100.0   1,100.0    1,100.0    1,100.0    5,500.0    -                    -       -        -
Total Base Costs        10,318.0   6,221.6   5,850.9    6,461.3    5,732.7   34,584.5   44   15,164.0    6   2,021.2
Physical Contingencies              816.       481.8      407.2        407.5       366.6    2,479.6   37          907.8    6      143.2
Price Contingencies                 691.3   1,263.1   2,010.3    3,188.7    3,964.4   11,117.8   30    3,340.4    7               791.1          |X
Estimated Total Project Costs 11,825.8   7,966.5   8,268.4   10,057.5   10,063.7   48,1B1.9   40   19,412-2    6   2,955.5                       -.
November 27, 1979



NIGERIA
ONDO STATE
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Buildings and Civil Works Costs
By Section
(N'000)
Foreign
Exchange
PY1       PY2        PY3       PY4        PY5     Total           %   Amount
Project Management
and Administration           879.2       30.0      -          -          -        909.2        32    289.9
Evaluation Unit               108.6        -         -         -          -        108.6        32      34.6
Commercial Services         1,375.8   1,220.9    406.9                           3,003.6        32    957.6
Training                      161.5        -        -          -          -        161.5        32      51.5
Technical Services
Extension                   485.2       22.1      -          -          -        507.3        32    161.7
Farm Management/
Planning                  272.0        -        -          -          -        272.0        32      86.7
Seed Multiplication         278.6       42.1      -          -          -        320.7        32    102.3
Livestock                   215.8        -        -          -          -        215.8        32      68.8
Sub-total (Tech. Svcs.)  1,251.6        64.2      -          -          -      1,315.8        32    419.5
Engineering
Roads and Water             658.9      837.2     785.0      588.6    500.4    3,370.1         33  1,119.2
Buildings Section           172.0       72.1      -          -          -        244.1        32      77.9
Workshop                    303.7       90.2      -          -          -        393.9        32    125.6
Sub-total (Engineering)  1,134.6       999.5     785.0      588.6    500.4    4,008.1         32  1,322.7
Total                 4.911.3   2,314.6   !,LS.         588.6    500.4    9,506.8         32  3,075.8            m
November 27, 1979



NIGERIA
ONDO STATE
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Salary and Wage Costs
By Section
(N' 000)
Foreign
Exchange
PYI       PY2        PY3        PY4        PY5        Total        %    Amount
Project Management
and Administration                  289.4      295.4      295.4      295.4      295.4      1,471.0      25      375.0
Evaluation Unit                        82.4      121.9      121.9      121.9      121.9        570.0      33      190.2
Commercial Services                   292.4      425.0      499.1      426.2      426.2      2,068.9      19      385.0
Training                              121.1      208.8      208.8      146.2      134.5        819.4      36      299.0
Technical Services
Extension                           318.3      458.3      614.6      704.4      839.8      2,935.4      10      305.0
Farm Management/Planning            132.9      169.4      177.5      177.5      177.5        834.8      23      190.2
Seed Multiplication                 116.9      124.8      124.8      124.8      124.8        616.1      31     190.2
Livestock                            81.0       96.4      108.1      115.1      122.1        522.7      36      190.2
Sub-total (Tech. Svcs.)        649.1      848.9   1,025.0   1,121.8   1,264.2        4,909.0      18      875.6
Engineering
Roads and Water                     444.3      496.8      545.8      545.8      545.8      2,578.5      15      375.0
Buildings Section                   110.3      127.8      127.8      127.8      127.8        621.5      28     175.0
Workshop                            142.3      168.7      168.7      168.7      168.7        817.1      21      175.0
Sub-total (Engineering)        696.9      793.3      842.3     842.3      842.3      4,017.1      18      725.0
Total                        2,131.3   2,693.3   2,992.5   2,953.8   3,084.5    13,855.4           21   2,849.8
November 27, 1979                                                                                                             LO



NIGERIA
ONDO STATE
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Plant, Vehicle and EquipmentCosts
By Section
('I000)                                  Foreign
Exchange
PYl       PY2        PY3       PY4        PY5        Total        %   Amount
Project Management
and Administration           108.9       25.4       -         48.2       20.1      202.6       62    126.4
Evaluation Unit                35.4        9.6        -        23.1        9.6        77.7      66      51.1
Commercial Services           223.8         -        -         65.1                 288.9       60    174.6
Training                       71.0       37.2        -        46.0       20.3      174.5       69    121.1
Technical Services
Extension                   129.9       26.8      25.8      111.6       26.8      320.9       67    215.2
Farm Management/
Planning                  118.7       33.8       -         -           -        152.5       68    103.6
Seed Multiplication         150.0                            53.8                 203.8       64    129.5
Livestock                    47.6        -         -         38.7        -         86.3       68      58.6
Sub-total (Tech. Svcs.)    446.2        60.6      25.8      204.1       26.8      763.5       66    506.9
Engineering
Roads and Water           2,021.2       14.1     346.6      609.5       14.1    3,005.5       79  2,362.1
Building Section             82.8        -         -         75.8        -        158.6       74    117.0
Workshop                    172.7        -          -        86.8        -        259.5       72    187.6
Sub-total (Engineering)  2,276.7        14.1     346.6      772.1       14.1    3,423.6       78  2,666.7
Total                  3,162.0     146.9      372.4   1,158.6       90.0    4,930.8        74  3,646.8           P
March 26, 1979



NIGERIA
ONDO STATE
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Vehicle Operating and General Services Costs
By Section
(N'000)
Foreign
Exchange
PYl       PY2         PY3       PY4        PY5        Total        %     Amount
Project Management
and Administration          162.3      80.9       81.8       81.8       81.8      488.6       18       88.2
Evaluation Unit                10.5      13.7       13.7       13.7       13.7        65.3      36       23.2
Commercial Services           103.6    139.9       152.0      152.0      152.0      699.5       36      251.3
Training                       38.3      54.5        54.5      54.5       54.5      256.3       23       58.1           a
Technical Services
Extension                    44.5      75.3       91.1       91.1       91.1      393.1       36      142.4
Farm Management/
Planning                   25.1      41.3       41.3       41.3       41.3      190.3       35       67.4
Seed Multiplication          60.8      68.9       70.2       70.2       70.2      340.3       36      123.7
Livestock                    19.0      25.5       25.5       25.5       25.5      121.0       36       43.5
Sub-total (Tech. Svcs.)    149.4    211.0        228.1      228.1     228.1    1,044.7        36      377.0
Engineering
Roads and Water             217.3    408.3       480.5      480.5      480.5    2,067.1       23      751.1
Buildings Section            58.4      46.7       46.7       46.7       46.7      245.2       25       63.7
Workshop                     27.3      43.0       43.0       43.0       43.0      199.3       35       69.1
Sub-total (Engineering)    303.0    498.0        570.2      570.2      570.2    2,511.6       35      883.9
Total                   767.1    998.0    1,100.3   1,100.3   1,100.3    5,066.0          33   1,681.7          > t
March 26, 1979



- 68 -                              ANNEX 2
Table 6
NIGERIA
ONDO STATE
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost of Consultants and Studies
(1980 Constant Prices)
PYl     PY2      PY3     PY4      PY5     Total
-------------  man-months ------------------
Technical Consultancies
(min. tillage, implements,
organization, accountancy)           -        2       2        2       2         8
Agricultural Project
Development Expansion                -        -       2        2       -         4
Feasibility Studies
(crop processing, small-scale
irrigation, etc.)                    -       -        -        3       3         6
Hydrogeological Studies              -        4       4        2       2        12
Total Man-months                  -       6        8        9       7        30
----------------- N'OOO ------------------
Total Consultancy Costs
At N5400 per man-month
(equivalent to US$9,000)             -      32.4    43.2    48.6    37.8    162
Recruitment Fees                   252        -       -        -       -       252
14 staff x N18,000 (equi-
valent to US$30,000)               252      32.4    43.2    48.6    37.8    414
November 27, 1979



NIGERIA
ONDO STATE
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Recurrent Farm Inputs
1980 Constant Terms
(N'000)
Foreign Exchange
PYI        PY2        PY3        'Y4        PY5         To'al           %        Amount
Fertilieere
Compound:
BSP                              30.2     224.3      198.6i    116.4       190.0          839.5         67         545.4
ASP (C)                            -        26.5       67.9      104.2      127.0         325.6         67          217.2
*ASP (MT)                           -        21.0       51.1       55.1       72.1         199.3         67          133.0
Seed Farm                         1.5        1.4        0.8        1.8        1.2           6.7         67            4.4
Sub-Total                     81.7      273,6      318.5      TZ773      390.3       1,421.1          67         951.0
CAN:
BSP                               9.7        9.7       19.3       19.3       19.3          77.2         56           43.4
ASP (C)                            -        23.8       20.0       30.1       70.0         163.9         56           92.2
ASP (MT)                           -        11.5       16.0       73.1       42.3          92.9          56          52.4
Seed Farm                         1.3        0.7        0.7        3.8        5.2          11.7         56            6.6
Sub-Total                     11.0       45.7       56.0        36.3     136.8          345.8         56         194.6
Insecticide
BSP                                  4.8       21.5       26.6       23.3       21.5          97.7          77          75.6
ASP (C)                               -        i4.o       14.3       i7.9       20.1           57.1         77          52.0                     >
ASP (MT)                              -        21.0       42.1       32.8       34.9         130.8          77         101.3                     @
Seed Farm                            0.7        1.6        1.7        0.2        1.5           5.7          77           4.3
Sub-Total                      5.5       58.9       84.7        74.2      78.0          301.3         77         233.1
Herbicide
ASP (C)                               -         5.0       36.9       50.3       58.7         150.9          77         116.9
ASP (MT)                              -        32.4       63.2       71.7      104.6         271.9          77         210.6
Seed Farm                            0.4        0.4        0.7        0.1        0.7           2.3          77           1.8
Sub-Total                      0.4       37.8      100.8      122.1      164.0          425.1         77         329.2
Foundation Seed
SeeJ Farm                            1.2        1.4         -         0.6        0.8          4.0           45           1.8
Poultry                                   -       3'D6 .0    359.0      33z9.0       359.0      1,443.0         15         216.5
TOTAL (at 1978 Exch.: Nl   US$1.54)   99-8        783.4       l8.9   1,09.3   L 128.9           3,940.3         48.8    1X926.2
Adjusted for exchange rate
appreciation: NI = US$1.67              95.0      752.8      883.0      969.9    1,084.8        3,786.4                  1,847.8
November 27, 1979



NIGERIA
ODO STATE
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Inputs - Cgpital Cost.
('000 Nalra - 1980 Conetant Terms)
1                  2                    3                   4                   5                Totl Cot             I  Exchu
(Unt.)t7    Cost   (Units)    C;ost   (UnLts)    Cost   (Ui.             oa      Ui.        Cos,t   (Units)    cast    %Anon
Conventional Mechanized P.ckage 1/                 --       --         (3)      77.1       (2)      51.4      (10)    257.0       (15)    385.7        (30)    771.2  77    597.4
Seed Farm Requirements                     (3!      7?.1                                                                                        (3)      77.i  77       59.7
Minimum Tillage (Mechanized) Package 2/            --       --         --       --         --       --        (50)    143.6       (50)    128.5    (100)    272.1  77    222.5
Additional Sprayers                                                                                                        (50)       3.9      (50)       3.9  77        3.0
Minimum Tillage Manual PackaSge 3/                 - ~   --          (650)      28.8 ((1.350)       59.9    (750)       33.3  (1,750)        77.6  (4,500)       99.6  77    154.7
Additional Sprayers                                                                                  (216)        8.5    (450)       17.7    (666)       26.2  77       20.2
Maize Crib. 4/                                   (700)      21.4  (2,800)       85.7  (2,100)       64.3  (3,500)      107.1  (4,200)      128.6 (13,300)    407.1  18         72.0
Poultry Package 5/                                 --       --        (50)     192.0      (50)    192.0       (50)    192.0       (50)    192.0    (200)        768.0  41    318.6
TOTAL                                                       98.5               303.6               367.6               741.5               934.0             2.525.2        1,448.1
NOTE:  Costs quoted below are at 1978 prices.  See Working Paver 3 for cost details and uvdsting procedure.
1/ Sets  include tractor (45 In), disc plough, disc harrow, disc ridger, 4-row plenter, sprayer, trailer, maize sheller - total cost N23,000.
2/ Chieftain mini-tractor (3.75 kw) plus attachmente - total cost N2,570. ULV sprayer replaced every year.
3/ ULM sprayer, planter, fertilizer applicator, hand tools - total cost P135. ULV sprayer renewed every two years. One sprayer to 3 farmers. Oneplanter and
fertilizer applicator to 10 farmers.
4/ Units are m3. 501 of all improved and advanced maized stored In cribs.
5/ Poultry sheds (30'x20'), canopy breeder, battery cages (96x5) - total materials coet (N3,205).
March 26, 1979                                                                                                                                                                                   -'1



NIGERIA
ONDO STATE
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Financing Plan - By Expense Category
(N' 000)
As per Disburse
ment Schedule
(less 10% for
Total Project Costs                                                                                             Equivalent      Contingencies)
(Including Contingencies)                        PYl       PY2       PY3       PY4        PY5        Total      US$ Million    (US$ Million)
Buildings & Civil Works                         5,754    3,061    1,775          989        948    12,527          20.9
Plant, Vehicles & Equipment                     3,492        179      491      1,681        140      5,984         10.0
Vehicle Operating & General Services               847    1,209    1,457       1,596      1,737      6,846         11.4
Salaries and Wages                              1,236    2,063    2,653        2,874      3,338    12,164          20.3
Farm Inputs                                        214    1,415    1,836       2,851      3,842    10,158          17.0
Consultant Services                                283        39       56         68         56        502          0.9
Total                                    11,826    7,966    8,268    10,059    10,061    48,180              80.5
IBRD:  Buildings & Civil Works                  1,987    1,197        832        594        592      5,202          8.7               7.8
Plant, Vehicles & Equipment              2,801       150       391     1,344         130     4,816           8.0              7.2
Vehicle Operating & General Services         -         -         -          -          -          -          -
Farm Inputs                                109       684       832     1,462      1,878      4,965           8.3              7.5
Salaries and Wages                         517       703       837       887        991      3,935           6.6              5.9
Consultant Services                        283        39        56         68         9         502          0.9              0.8
Total                                     5,697    2,773    2,948       4,355       3.647    19,420          32.5              3,3 + contingencies
32.5
FGN:   Buildings & Civil Works                   1,867       800      543        100         56      3,366
Plant, Vehicles & Equipment                300         -        25        107          -       432
Vehicle Operating & General Services    387          191       323        396        138     1,435
Salaries and Wages                         180       340       354        397       387      1,658
Farm Inputs                                105       731    1,004      1,389      1,964      5,193
Consultant Services                          -         -         -          -          -          -
Total                                     2,839    2,062    2,249        2,389     2,545    12,084
ONSG:  Buildings & Civil Works                  1,900    1,064        400        295        300      3,959
Plant, Vehicles & Equipment                391        29        75        230         10        735
Vehicle Operating & General Services    460    1,018    1,134          1,200      1,599      5,411
Salaries and Wages                         539    1,020    1,462       1,590      1.q6O      fi971
Total                                     3,290    3,131    3,071        3,315     3,869    16,676
November 27, 1979



- 72 -                                     ANNEX 2
Table 10
NIGERIA
ONDO STATE
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(In US$ million)
IBRD
Fiscal Year            Quarter             Amount             Cumulative
FY 81                  First                  -                   -
Second                2.0                 2.0
Thir,d                3.2                 5.2
Fourth                4.3                  9.5
FY 82                  First                  1.2                10.7
Second                1.2                11.9
Third                 1.2                13.1
Fourth                1.1                 14.2
FY 83                  First                  1.2                15.4
Second                1.2                16.6
Third                 1.3                 17.9
Fourth                1.3                 19.2
FY 84                  First:                 1.8                21.0
Second                1.8                22.8
Third                 1.8                 24.6
Fourth                1.9                 26.5
FY 85                  First:                 1.5                28.0
Second                1.5                29.5
Third.                1.5                 31.0
Fourth                1.5                 32.5
November 27, 1979



- 73 -
Annex 3
Page 1
NIGERIA
ONDO STATE
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Assumptions
1.        Project Life:  Assumed to be 30 years including a five-year invest-
ment period during which development activities would be substantially com-
pleted. Full development yields are expected to be achieved in five years
by 1986.
2.        Phasing of costs and benefits.  If benefits are included in the
same year as the costs required to generate those benefits there will be a
tendency for the economic rate of return to be overestimated (para 10.07) for
this reason:
i.   Benefits are all lagged one year from those suggested by
projections of hectares under crops (Annex 1, Table 2).
Benefits from the project therefore begin in year two.
ii.   50% of the recurrent farm inputs are also lagged one year.
These measures compensate for the fact that crop benefits accrue to the
farmer approximately six months after planting; or in the case of poultry
farming, six months after purchase of capital goods and day-old chickens.
3.        Project Costs:
i.   all costs are expressed in April 1980 prices net of identifiable
taxes and duties;
ii.   cost estimates include physical contingencies (10% building and
construction; 5% all others);
iii.   all farm inputs were costed at full economic farmgate prices
(summary table of input costs is at Table 2);
iv.   the opportunity cost for all farm labor was taken as
N 2.50 per manday (see also para 10.09);



- 74 -
Annex 3
Page 2
v.   since the numeraiLre used for the analysis is real income
measured in terms; of domestic currency (at constant 1980
prices), all foreign exchange costs and benefits have been
denominated in Naira using a shadow exchange rate (SER) of
N 1.0 = US$1.23 (as compared to an official rate of
N 1.0 = US$1.67). (See also para 10.08);
vi.   only 50% of the cost of training has been included, as
benefits from it would also accrue to non-project farmers;
vii.   all evaluation costs have been excluded because the benefits
will accrue to future investments;
viii.   costs included af'ter the 5-year investment period reflect those
estimated to be required to maintain "full development" project
benefits. These include the operating costs of the following
project divisions: project management and administration (50%
of PY5 operating costs); Commercial Services (100%),
Extension (50%), Seed Multiplication (100%), Livestock (50%),
Training (50%), Roads and Water (10%), Workshop (50%).
4.        Project Benefits:  Expected future yields and production with and
without project are in Annex 1, Tables 1 to 3.
i.   project benefits comprise the value of incremental crop production
priced at economic farmgate prices (for details see summary at
Table 1) based on the Bank's world market commodity price fore-
casts for maize and rice (Table 6). For nontraded crops -
cassava, yams and cowpeas -- output was valued on the basis
of domestic retail prices, adjusted to farmgate (Table 5).
ii.   no additional non-agricultural benefits from improved roads and
rural infrastructure were calculated;
iii.   no residual value was added at the end of the project's economic
life.
4.        Using the foregoing assumptions and discounting costs and benefits
over a 30-year evaluation period, the economic rate of return for the project
is 19.6 (Table 3). Assuming a discount rate of 11%, the estimated opportunity
cost of capital in Nigeria, the economic net present value (NPV) of project
investment in 1980 terms is N 24.7 million (US$30.4 million).



NIGERIA
ONDO STATE
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC VALUE OF INCREMENTAL CROP AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION -/ (1980 CONSTANT PRICES)
(N '000)
Naira Per Unit          Year 1      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5       Year 6 Onwards
(1980-1985)
Maize                 177-189/ton             _            69            443          758       1,447           2,452
Yams                  278/ton                 -           780         3,115        5,450        7,785          10,120
Cassava               113/ton                 _          328          1,040        2,430        4,000           5,571
Rice                  230-258/ton             _            S8            291          581         979            1,305
Cowpeas               688/ton                                           154          378          567              757
Eggs 3/               1.89 doz.               _                         647        1,288        1,917           2,551
Culled Layers 3/      N5/layer                _            -            130          258          385              513
Total Benefits                                -         1,245          5,820      11,143       17,080          23,269
1/ Crop production projections, see Annex 1, Table 3.
2/ Estimated market and economic prices, see Annex 3, Tables 5 and 6.                                                      ( M
3/ See poultry development program, Annex 1, Table 4.                                                                      I -
March 26, 1979



- 76 -                                       ANNEX 3
Table 2
NIGERIA
ONDO STATE
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Valuation of Farm Inputs -
(Thousand Naira)
Year 7
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6         on
Fertilizers
Compound                        107       400      810    1,283    1,821    2,107    2,107
CAN                               6       39        90       188       358      452       452
Agro-Chemicals
Insecticides                      4       46       140       245      344       396       396
Herbicide                         1        25      117       263       451      559       559
Poultry-recurrent                   -       296      883    1,463    2,043    2,334    2,334
Machinery & Equipment
Conventional Mechanized
(including Seed Farm)        101       101        68      338       507       223      223
Minimum Tillage Package          -         38       79       243       320      176       176
Maize Cribs                      29       112       85       141       169      108       108
Poultry Package                  -       254       252       252      252       132       132
Operating Cost of Agri-
cultural Equipment               1       21        58       132      265       343       343
Farm Labor                        241    1,052    2,202    3,355    4,537    5,073    4,998
Total Incremental Farm
Input Costs                    490    2,384      4,784    7,903   11,067   11,903   11,828
1/ For physical input requirements and costs see Annex 1, table 10 and Annex 2,
tables 8 & 9 respectively. Costs are rounded. 50% recurrent costs lagged
one year (see para 10.07).
March 26, 1979



- 77 -                                    ANNEX 3
Table 3
NIGERIA
ONDO STATE
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Costs & Benefits -t
(Thousand Nairas, 1980 Constant Terms)
Incremental Project Costs             Incremental
Year      Capital    Project        Farm Inputs   Total    Benefits       Net Benefits
Operations &
Maintenance
1        8,607       2,900           490         11,997       -            (11,997)
2        2,740       3,722         2,384          8,846     1,245           (7,601)
3        1,710       4,071         4,784         10,565     5,820           (4,745)
4        1,902       4,094         7,903         13,899    11,143           (2,756)
5          685       4,248        11,067         16,000    17,080            1,080
6          312       1,921        11,903         14,136    23,269            9,133
7 - on     312       1,921        11,828         14,061    23,269            9,208
Economic Rate of Return = 19.6%
Net Present Value (at 11% discount rate) = N24.7 million (US$30 million)
1/ Based on Annex 3, tables 1, 2 and 7.
March 26, 1979



-78 -                                ANNEX 3
Table 4
NIGERIA
ONDO STATE
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
Variable                                      Appraisal    Crossover Value at OCC-1/=
Value        14%        _ %        8%
Adoption of BSP or ASP (ha)                     38,000      27.000    23,000    19,000
(-28)     (-40)      (-50)
Yields (tons/ha):
Yams                                         11.0        9.8        9.0        8.7
(-27)     (-40)      (-52)
Cassava                                8.0/14.Q 2t   7.0/10.0  6.5/8.0   6.1/6.2
(-51)     (-75)      (-97)
Economic Wage Rate (NlManday)                     2.5         3.75      4.40       5.00
(+50)     (+76)    (+100)
Shadow Exchange Rate (US$/N)                      1.23        0.87      0.75       0.64
(-41)     (-65)      (-90)
Project Capital Costs                            14.5        25.8      39.2       60.4
(N million discounted at 11%)                        (+93)    (+171)    (+282)
Prices of Agricultural Production (N/ton):
Yams                                           287         203       172        138
(-27)     (-40)      (-52)
Cassava                                        113         55         28          4
(-51)     (-75)      (-97)
1/  OCC = Opportunity Cost of Capital.  Crossover (or Switching) Value is the
value of the variable for which net present value is zero at a particular
discount rate.
2/ Improved and Advanced cultivation yields.
Percentage changes are shown in parentheses.
March 26, 1979



- 79 -                                ANNEX 3
Table 5
NIGERIA
ONDO STATE
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Market Crop Prices 1980-1985
(constant 1978 Naira per ton)
Yams      Cassava       Cowpeas      Maize       Rice
Value Retail Market -/       340         460  2/       650          235        600
Retail Marketing              51          69            65           24         60
Local Transport 3/            10          10            10           10         10
Value Wholesale              279         381           575          211        530
Primary Marketing and
Processing 4/                14          81            29           11         52
Processed Value Farmgate    265         300            546          200        478
Extraction/ Shrinkage
Factor 5/                     0.833      0.3           -            -           0.6
Farmgate Value               221         90            546          200        286
Updating Local Crops
to April 1980 (1.26)       278        113            688
1/  Source:  Mission estimates and Ondo State Ministry of Finance Retail
and Producer Price Trends Survey (November 1978) for Ado-Ekiti, updated to 1980.
2   Based on gari prices.
3   Based  on 100 km at NO.1/km per ton.  Processing of cassava into gari
and paddy into rice.
4/ Includes cost of bagging, assembly and transport, assumed 5% wholesale
value.
5/ Yams: shrinkage factor 1.2:1.
March 26, 1979



- 80 -                                        ANNEX 3
Table 6
NIGERIA
ONDO STATE
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Forecast Financial and Economic Prices of Internationally Traded Crops
Constant 1980 Terms (m/tons)
Rice                             Maize
Financial       Economic          Financial        Economic
1980   1985   1980   1985         1980   1985   1980   1985
FOB  /1                              429    487    429    487           159    175    159    175
FREIGHT & INSURANCE                    65     65      65      65         35      35      35      35
CIF LAGOS                            494    552    494    552           194    210    194    210
N EQUIVALENT  /2                      321    358    401    448          126    136    157    171
IMPORT DUTY   /3                       32     35       -       -         13      13       -       -
PORT HANDLING  /4                      20     20      20      20         20      20      20      20
VALUE LANDED                          373    413    421    468          159    169    177    191
TRANSPORT LAGOS - ADO-EKITI  /5    35          35     31      31         35      35      31      31
VALUE WHOLESALE                       408    448    452    499          194    204    208    222
UNPROCESSED EQUIVALENT  /6           244    268    271    299             -       -       -       -
PROCESSED & PRIMARY MARKETING         (70)   (70)   (50)   (50)         (20)   (20)   (20)   (22)
VALUE OF BY-PRODUCE  /8                20     20      20      20          -       -       -       -
FARM-MARKET TRANSPORT                 (12)   (12)   (11)   (11)         (12)   (12)   (11)   (11)
VALUE FARMGATE                        182    230    230    258          162    172    177    189
/1  Source:  IBRD April 1979 Commodity Forecasts.  Rice:  Thai 5% broken FOB Bangkok,
Maize: US No. 2 Yellow, FOB Gulf Ports (updated by international inflation index).
/2  Official exchange rate NI = IJS$1.54; shadow rate Ni = US$1.23.
/3  At 10%.
T4  Source:  Nigerian Port Authorcity.
/5  Based on 350 km at NO.1/km per ton.  Assume road transport has 50% foreign exchange
component, 30% of taxes, profits etc.
/6  Volume of rice assumed 60% that of paddy.
/7  Includes parboiling and mill:Lng of rice; drying of maize.
/8  Bran from rice.



- 81 -                                 ANNEX 3
Figure 1
NIGERIA
ONDO STATE
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Locus of Benefit-Cost Crossover Values
U)
n      _
'N~~~~N
L)J
L       -   \
>1 25  _          \                               1N2
L'_ '- EN 
CD 20 t 
LU      t   %        
U 15                         N .     
0     2     4     o      8    1.0   12S   14    16    18   2.0   22   24
PEPCE NT1PGE SHGR1 FRLL EUN BENEFYrlS
M_ X1- M.RXIUi E XPETED, F  -LL  iN  R F.JErFTTs  rs   l5.rJ.
--- -~   P[1USti',  E,XF'Et fc.0 RS+  r' l rss 1-8 I)    IZ. 5/.
OCC   Opportunity Cost of Capital (about 11% for Nigeria).
North-east of OCC line represents project failure.



- 82 -
Annex 4
NIGERIA
ONDO STATE
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of related documents and data available in Project File.
A.   Ekiti-Akoko Agricultural Development Project - Feasibility Study prepared
by BRGM (Nigeria) Ltd. - August 1978.
B.   Supplementary Appraisal
A number of Working Papers (WP) have been prepared to guide project
implementation. The WP's contain greater narrative detail on project
components. It contains the following Working Papers:
WPL -    Agricultural Background, Potential and Development
WP2 -    Infrastructural Development (Roads, Water and Buildings)
WP3 -    Agricultural Inputs
WP4 -    Agricultural Credit
WP5 -    Project Costs



NIGERIA
ONDO STATE
EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
EXECUTIVE
FMA                        -  -  -  -  - -        COUNCIL
ONDO STATE 
It                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~OTHER
APMEPU             L LGC'S               -           APGB"        |- -             STATE
w~~~~~j    1 ~~~~~~~~MINISTRIES
|J h   - - - 4 TACI]
FINANCE
I        l       DIVISION
I         ~~ADMINISTRATION
DIVISION                      E A P MU -U                     A ACVACV
I                         STAFF:FARMER AND
I         DEVELOPMENT/TRAINING
DIVISION
I                                                     I             ___  
MONITORING               TECHNICAL               ENGINEERING    l          COMMERCIAL
AND                   SERVICES                 SERVICES                  SERVICES       ___          OSACC
EVALUATION                DIVISION                 DIVISION                  DIVISION
DIVISIONJ
EXTENSION                  R A S                  REVOLVING
FUND
FARM
MANAGEMENT                   LAND                     INPUT
AND                   CLEARING                   SUPPLY
LAND USE
PLANNING
WATER                    CREDIT
SEED
MULTIPLICATION
MARKETING
BUILDINGS                   AND
APPLIED                                          PRODUCE
RESEARCH
WORKSHOP
1/ The Commissioner (MARD) Chairman, Permanent Secretary MARD, 5 members nominated by
State Governor on recommendation of Commissioner MARD, representatives FDA, OSMF,
OSMWT, and one representative of co-opted agencies in Ondo where required. Chief Planning
Officer MARD will be Secretary APGB. Technical Advisory Committee will comprise
Permanent Secretary MARD, Head of Divisions MARD, Project Manager and 2 members APGB,
Secretary for Finance and Administration.
2/ Representatives LGC's, farming community, local agencies and EAPMU's senior staff.              World Bank - 20330






IERG 14424
%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           f  J90 HLR 2; ; ffff1 0;I_SeL GImao QQ~ S D S =? 0 < u 7}0 5 t; E- th, h , . NIGERIA
IBRD  Assisted  Agricultural Projects
4ek\   ol9tvt  45 ; '  l ' j  \   L   _  jExisting    and    Under Appraisal
SOKOT                            - <                        "on                     /                , Nsur.i          QOo                                         [O<1t  ,>~                     Agrcotoulral Development
$~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g                                                                                                                                                                       EX STING8   T ,  s,
rA  _rk0\ OV,                                                                       t                                                                          >7L? z<fi  (  -14 = 5dn Fum(Lo-n(UNI)
IID Ayngb  (Lo-n1455-UNI)
TA "E                                                                                                                                                     F .-. $ \/2S & 8  <<tu4 f 0 ................ | 5,. ::.:3 NoIo  (L-on 1092- UNI)
r                                                               0                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G-I, ( L.on 1099 -UNI)
E)    TZ 0l    M                   KANO                                                                                                                                            G -bu   (L-n 1164rv-Urtr*T   *   0  0    0   4   50  >-s   L  iKf   W>>s   igr   oSp  NurFl    BoN I)
Bido (Loo- 1667 - UNI)
P.?I~~~~~kum   ~ ~AIDUGURI
j                                                                                                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APPRAISED
EkRi, Akolko (Cod.)
Coo N.,th
Kod-n Stoto
Training Project
o                     ~~~~~APPRAISED
-      00 I  ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                           Ag-uoltu-olond R.r.1
0k                                  M ..n o-nt Troing Institute
N   0,                                   :                                                                                        X                                                               \ 0 .: G  E  t.s7^} pf   :^.   :;rO^r  ;;  ;: 01 ' < 0 0 : 2 hr ; I il#<#d,/Tree Cr,p Proiects:
<  (CHIAO                             EXISTING
Cono I (Loon 764-UNI)
Cooo C (Loon 1045 -UNI)
/r                            P       L   A   T    E   A   Li                                                                                                     0,,J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nd  . 0   Polio (LoonltS92S  UNO)
Rond.1 Cd Polio (Loon 1183 -UNI)
'EDER.L                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~InIo Cil PolIo (Loon 1191 -UNI)
R,-er Sttor CI Polo,  LIon 1525 -UNI(
For.snr5 (Loo- 1679 - U NI)
APPRAISED
y                                                                                                                                                                               C.-  M (P,.b.b ly               C.c.. I a 11)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~____ Cooom(Poobyooi 00 o  ooo151
Irrigation Project
j                     ~~~~~~~~EXISTING
b.     0                                                                                                                                                            by~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iestock Develop,,ent Pro1ect!
T_'                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Loan 1091 -ULI)
of0oo.OoioOiOOOOTnOOioO,iioO0000dNotino-I Le-t-ok P,,dootion C. Ronono
oOooo,nn  o,o4000000000nn00004000u'00io0wMe-o Lov.took Co Ronco-
Inoiri,,-  !NsI~~~~~~~ C  EIR  j,~~~~~                                .~~                   A         N-rih-E-st-r Co Ronches
A-          N IGER IA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n.~An-ioo / Po-ture In-btgoti- CGnto-
B   E  L  I                                                                                                              AWEkIA~~~~~~~~~~~01 NnleLnS4t    0000 ~   ~   cut~  Gro-ng Pesnre - Ful-n Gn-p Ronhos
On0   00  40 ioto  o
,~~df   pI    hpnepn  -                  0    40   40~~~ 00    0                                            W N(oo  oo
A,    0~~~~~~~~~~~~






IBRD 14231
20                         5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3O'                                                                                  &oo ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APRIL 1979
N IGERIA
AK W  A R "A   S T A T E   7.'O OSTE
lye  i   ~~          I,eie    -                      EKITI-AKOKO AGRICULT-URAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Existing and Proposed Locations of
>-~~~~~KI K                          K~~~~~'*                                             Admin~~~~~istrati've Centers, Service Centers and Roads
EXISTING                                      PROPOSED
S T A T E                                                                                                                                      0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/      Local governtment area headquarters  Project headquarters and
[3  OSACC headquarters                               Farm Training Institute
F       K,       /       T       /_A OSWC wajter supply                                                                                    OSWC walter supply
v                         -   ~~~~~~~~~~Forest reserves                      Seed multiplication torm-r
p                                            Z~~~~~~~~~~~'- ~~~~~~Narturcal drainage system      Farm  Service Centers:
- Federal roads                                        Lairge
A~~~~yede  "'7 ~~~~~~~~~- State  roads                                                                                       Small
_LGC roads                            ~~~~~Roads
ITHE PpoJner AREA IS COOMOSED D OF[HE
Ol.-                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FOLOAIINA, [[CAL GOVERMmITEErASCA
b-4,1e  A                                                                                  11 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II NSACH E[IT rr CENTRAL. FE Ti EAST
OLE                          VI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bb                            I~~~~~RKA3K  NAPR2H AND AKCOKR  -UJTH
ng, ~ ~ ~    ~        ~       ~       ~        ~       ~      ~       IAR                                    h                






i 5600                                                                                                                          {42//orm p 5$30 7 --  o^oA APRAIL 1979I
N I G1EIR IA
/: t K W A RA   -S T A T E                                                                                  t                                                                   v  jONDO STATE
/    t- F- EKITI-AKOKO AGRIC:IJLTURAI. DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
of1,[  ncm     Na Qt-alI  Dracinage
o  Y       Ji-?\t >501 AS. CC/IAT/)N  /HAAGE  PAfrEW'TcOCK                 SOIL CHARACTE/eS527CS
STATE                                                                                                                                          Course grawed~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Coarse texturea, greyish brown and brown, sandy to
We I      ous   oed fairly clayey soils, Overlying westhered rock material,
Iwo            draAi Tla' ies cu d    Frese  rock at depths of 7 to 9 feet, shc lower on steep
F  T  ~~~~~~-I*,                                                  {               91C15551A~~~~~~~~~~~~gr   slopes. Fairly frequent ~ock outcrops.
\.eDm to fine textured, orcage brown to broweish
d o   s a c   ~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   l .in e l                                                              W~ s e l   tA O   ~ , d ,,, e c   r e d   f t air ly   c ia y e y   s o il e   o v e r l y in g   o r a n g e ,   br o w I o d
NC   L acne       ,.'rd  rnmottled claiy  Fresh rock atdeptnnso  10 t   1
51            feet. Occosioral rockr outcropn.
- | T A: cv s c )Polr0[s AeSC(,                          MHI)SEDOF ru  1   Areus w th s ope greater thur 7%
)N G s 1CAr G,V,RNe FN r Au.AS                -             Natura  drsincrge
<Ii IOTH EC  I BENDERA,L,      I EAsT                       Federal roads
_O I ' 'CC, Fi f  CI AMKs E0T K                             State roads
LGC36  roads
9V A#d.                  M,                                                                   Forest reserves
... . ...    Local goSernment boundaries
State bourar uies
."I  l  nnc  I
__________________________________________                                                               -                                                                                                      7030-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K    A R     S T 
AT,ANTIC  OCF4N  ness xiv c   _____ Stein hence inse9b
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _           '       i         2   ? 1f d                          n c c ,f C '_                     _  _ _-        ~  -             . - - - L . - - - - - - - . - - - - - - - _ _ _



