FICIALT~ LOAN HUMBER 1854 UNI
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Ekiti-Akoko Agricultural Development Project)
between
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                      /      , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1854 UNI
AN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  &eOf;>>      4t- /C         , 1980, between
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried cit by Ondo State of Nigeria
(hereinafter called Ondo State) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower vill make available
to Ondo State the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Ondo State;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan        e27
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated Me11h-mi-4 9Pr= ith
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and Ondo State of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and the term includes all schedules and all
agreements supplemental thereto;


﻿-2-
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into by the Borrower and Ondo State pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and the term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(c) "APMEPU" means the Borrower's Agricultural Projects
Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit estahlished under Loan
No. 1092 UNI (Funtua Agricultural Development Project);
(d) "APGB" means the Agricultural Projects Governing Board
to be established by Ondo State;
(e) "EAPMU" means the Ekiti-Akoko Project Management Unit to
be established in accordance with Section 2.01 (c) of the Project
Agreement;
(f) "EAPTCC" means the Ekiti-Akoko Project Technical Coordi-
nation Committee to be established under Section 2.01 (d) of the
Project Agreement;
(g) "MARD" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development of Ondo State;
(h) "Naira" or "N" means the currency of the Borrower;
(i) "Project Area" means the local government areas of
Ekiti Central, North and East, and Akoko North and South;
(j) "FMA" means the Federal Ministry of Agriculture;
(k) "OSACC" means the Ondo State Agricultural Credit
Corporation; and
(1) "FSC" means a Farm Service Center.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-two million five hundred thousand dollars ($32,500,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) The Bank is hereby authorized on receipt of reimburse-
ment claims to pay amounts to be reimbursed in respect of expen-
ditures made by EAPMU under the Project through the Central Bank
of Nigeria directly into the bank account established for EAPMU
under the Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Section 2.05 of, and Schedule 1 to, the Project Agreement and
paragraph (b) of this Section.
(b) The Borrower hereby agrees that the following provi-
sions shall apply with respect to procurement by FMA's Central
Fertilizer Unit of fertilizer for projects financed by the Bank:
(1) fertilizer procured for such projects: (A) shall
in each case be identifiable; (B) shall be governed
in every respect by the procurement procedures
referred to in paragraph (a) above; and (C) shall
be carried out in accordance with a timetable
agreed by the Bank and the Borrower;
(2) procurement of fertilizer for such projects shall
be jointly monitored by the Borrower and the
Bank with a view to identifying and removing any
sources of slippage in such procurement; and
(3) not later than two years after the date of this
Agreement, the Borrower and the Bank shall hold
a joint review of the operating procedures for
such procurement with a view to making recommenda-
tions on the need for procedural reform or insti-
tutional strengthening.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1985
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of
Finance, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the.provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Arti-
cle V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Bor-
rower shall within the limits of its constitutional powers ensure
that Ondo State performs in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Ondo State to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
Ondo State under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into by
the Borrower and Ondo State, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank including repayment of
principal in 20 years, an annual interest rate which shall not be


﻿-5-
less than the rate specified in Section 2.06 hereof and a grace
period of 5 years.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Without any limitation or restriction upon the
Borrower's obligations under Section 3.01 (a) above, the Borrower
shall: (i) make adequate budgeting pro.7isions for, and pay to
EAPMU at least three months in advanc ., quarterly contributions
for the Project based on the annual budget of EAPMU approved by
Ondo State and estimated by the Borrower and the Bank to amount
in the aggregate to twenty million two hundred thousand Naira
(N20,200,000) (exclusive of subsidies on farm inputs) over the
project period; and (ii) make an initial deposit of one million
Naira (N1,000,000) into the bank account established for the use
of EAPMU under Section 2.03 (a) of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall provide in its budgets
amounts sufficient to cover any loss EAPMU shall incur in any year
on account of the sale or provision by EAPMU of farm inputs (in-
cluding fertilizer) or services to farmers participating in the
Project at subsidized prices or rates determined by the Borrower.
The Borrower shall pay EAPMU, no later than September 30 of the
year immediately preceding the year in which the farm input or
service is to be procured, an amount equal to a reasonable esti-
mate of such loss furnished by EAPMU to the Borrower. After the
farm input or service has been procured, necessary adjustments
shall be made between the Borrower and EAPMU to ensure that any
payments made by the Borrower pursuant to this Section shall
correspond to the loss actually incurred by EAPMU.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause FMA to prepare a
report and formulate proposals on the Project's progress and shall
review such report and proposals with the Bank and Ondo State no
later than June 30, 1984. The Borrower shall for the purpose of
this review make such recommendations to both the Bank and Ondo
State for the future of the Project as it shall consider neces-
gary.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Borrower: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets
as security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed in
writing by the Borrower to the Bank; (ii) undertakes that, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien shall be
created on any assets of the Borrower or of any agency of the
Borrower (including assets of the Central Bank of Nigeria, or of
any other institution performing the functions of a central bank
of the Borrower) as security for any external debt, such lien will
ipso facto equally and ratably, secure the payment of the prin-
cipal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and that in
the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect; and (iii) further undertakes that the Forrower will,
within the limits of its constitutional powers, make the foregoing
undertaking effective with respect to liens on assets of any of
the Borrower's political subdivisions or of any agency of any such
political subdivisions, and to the extent that the Borrower is
unable within the limits of its constitutional powers to make such
undertaking effective, the Borrower will give to the Bank an
equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank. The Borrower shall
promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not
apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase
price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary
course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after its date.
(d) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Borrower or of any of its political sub-
divisions or of any agency of the Borrower or of any such poli-
tical subdivision, including the Central Bank of Nigeria or any
institution performing the function of a central bank for the
Borrower.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) Ondo State shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b) the Borrower or Ondo State shall have failed to
perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that Ondo State will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, aamely, any event specified in
paragraph (a) or (b) in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and
Ondo State.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
conditions:
(a) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and Ondo State has been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary governmental action;
(b) a bank account has been established at a commercial
bank for EAPMU and an initial deposit of one million Naira
(N1,000,000) paid in separately by Ondo State and the Borrower
in accordance with Section 2.03 (a) of the Project Agreement and
Section 3.02 of this Agreement;


﻿-8-
(c) EAPMU and APGB have been duly established and gazetted
in accordance with Section 2.01 (b) and (c) of the Project Agree-
ment;
(d) the Project Manager and chief accountant have been
appointed in accordance with Section 2.04 (a) of the Project
Agreement; and
(e) an agreement has been signed with a firm of consultants
in accordance with Section 2.04 (a) of the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by Ondo State, and is legally binding upon Ondo State
in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Ondo State and is
legally .binding upon the Borrower and Ondo State in accordance
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date     4/44                , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Permanent Secretary
Federal Ministry of Finance
P.M.B. 12591
Federal Secretariat, Ikoyi
Lagos, Nigeria


﻿-9-
Cable address:                     Telex:
21428
PERMFIN                           LAGOS
Lagos
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
By
AuthYzed Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By//4-
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 7,800,000        40%
(2) Plant, vehicles,            7,200,000        100% of foreign
roadmaking                                  expenditures if
equipment and                               directly im-
spare parts                                 ported or 90% if
procured locally
(3) Salaries and allow-         6,700,000        100%
ances of interna-
tionally recruited
staff, consultant
services and over-
seas training
(4) Fertilizer, chem-           7,500,000        100% of foreign
icals, agricultural                         expenditures if
equipment and                               directly im-
other farm inputs                           ported or 85% if
procured locally
(5) Unallocated                 3,300,000
TOTAL      32,500,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on
or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, in consultation with the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion,
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Crop and Livestock Development
(1) Increasing production of major subsistence and cash
crops grown by smallholders, numbering about 65,000, in the
Project Area through their introduction to simple improved farming
practices involving the use of improved crop production measures,
good quality seed and modest application of fertilizer and pesti-
cides and the strengthening of the agricultural extension services
available to them.
(2) Introduction of more advanced improved farming practices
to agriculturally more progressive group and individual farmers,
numbering-about 5,000, in the Project Area, farm mechanization
and, as appropriate, the use of minimum tillage and associated
chemical weed control measures.
(3) Establishment of adaptive research and crop trial
facilities at selected FSCs including testing, improvement and
demonstration of minimum tillage techniques and other farming
systems appropriate to local conditions and practical trials of
low horsepower tractors in cooperation with local research
organizations.
(4) (a) Production of seeds and planting material at Osin
State Farm for improved maize, rice and cowpea
varieties.
(b) Production of improved planting material for yam
and cassava at 15 FSCs.
(c) Establishment of an appropriate inspection and
certification system in conjunction with the
National and State Seed Services.
(d) Training of farmers.
(e) Provision of adequate seed processing equipment.


﻿- 13 -
(5) (a) Training of about 200 farmers in practical poultry
management including preventive disease control and
assistance in the construction of about 500 bird
layer production units.
(b) Establishment at Ikole of a poultry breeding
unit (about 2,000 birds) to supply day-old chicks.
(6) Provision to individual group and cooperative farmers of
seasonal credit for herbicides and insecticides by EAPMU and of
medium-term credit by OSACC for capital inputs.
Part B:   Civil Works
(1) (a) Construction and upgrading of about 125 km of
gravel surfaced feeder roads and about 375 km of
farm roads.
(b) Establishment of a road construction unit and
central road maintenance unit to support the road
maintenance requirements of local government
authorities within the Project Area.
(2) Construction of about 35 small earthen dams each of
about 35,000 m3 storage and establishment of a dam construction
unit.
(3) Land clearance (including soil conservation works) on
about 1,000 ha of land.
(4) Establishment at Ikole of a workshop to service and
repair vehicles, plant and equipment.
(5) Building program requiring construction of about 90
staff houses, 30 FSCs, stores, workshops, office and seed farm
buildings.
Part C:   Institutional Support
(1) Programs in technical and management training to be
carried out by EAPMU with some consultant support; and overseas
training to support and expand training provided under the Pro-
ject.


﻿-14-
(2) Upgrading of the Farm- Training Institute at Ikole to
provide courses for farmers particularly in poultry and minimum
tillage techniques and courses for project staff and for staff of
the local government authority.
(3) Establishment of a Commercial Services Division within
EAPMU and strengthening of OSACC.
Part D:   EvAluation
The establishment of a Monitoring and Evaluation Department
of EAPMU to serve as a data collection, analysis and advisory unit
for the Project and a source of information for effective project
supervision and impartial assessment of project performance.
Part E:   Consultant Services
(1) Review on a periodic basis of basic agricultural manage-
ment, work methods and organization, and introduction of new
technology (about 8 man-months of technical consultancy).
(2) Assistance to MARD to review practices. and procedures
relating to farm credit, input supplies and distribution, local
government authorities road maintenance and agricultural extension
operations with a view to preparing proposals for post-project
development (about 4 man-months).
(3) Feasibility studies of crop processing, marketing of
food crops, small scale irrigation and livestock development
(about 6 man-months of consultant services).
(4) Hydrological study to determine groundwater potential
for the Project Area (about 12 man-months of technical consul-
tancy).
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1985.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning February 1, 1986
through   February 1, 2000                1,085,000
On August 1, 2000                              1,035,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-16-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years                        1.25%
before maturity
More than three years but                        2.50%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                          4.55%
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                       6.60%
not more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but                      7.40%
not more than eighteen years
before maturity
More than eighteen years                         8.25%
before maturity


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this /L       day of Q9.2  , 198 -0.
FOR SECRETARY


