OFFICIM)i .,     LOAN NUMBER 2042 MR
=DOCUMENHTS '
Loan Agreement
(Technical Training Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
Dated                              ,1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2042 ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONS UCTI   AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and NACIONAL FI    ERA, S.A. (hereinafter called
the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "CONALEP" means Colegio Nacional de Educaci6n
Profesional Tecnica; and
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and CONALEP of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement Set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to ninety million dollars ($90,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for


﻿-2-
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as provided in Section 2.02 of the
Project Agreement, procurement of the goods and works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the
provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section Z.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Transfer of Loan Proceeds
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall make contractual arrange-
ments with CONALEP, satisfactory to the Bank, providing, inter
alia, for the transfer to CONALEP of the proceeds of the Loan for
the purpose of carrying out the Project. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not change or fail to enforce
any provision of such arrangements.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any external debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any external debt, such lien will
ipso facto equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect, at no cost to the Bank, provided, however, that the fore-
going provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for the payment of the purchase price of such prop-
erty; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) CONALEP shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement; and
(b) the Guarantor shall have changed or failed to enforce
the Decreto Presidencial of the Guarantor, dated December 27,
1978, in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the
ability of CONALEP to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of


﻿-4-
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
the Guarantor, the Borrower and CONALEP; and
(b). any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
ticnal condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Borrower and CONALEP have entered into the
contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by CONALEP, and is legally binding upon CONALEP in
accordance with its terms;
(b) that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section
6.01 of this Agreement are legally binding upon the parties
thereto; and
(c) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to
be performed or given by the Guarantor, its political subdivisions
or agencies or by any agency of any political subdivision or
otherwise to be performed or given in order to authorize the
carrying out of the Project and to enable CONALEP to perform all
of the covenants, agreements and obligations of CONALEP in the
Project Agreement contained, together with all necessary powers
and rights in connection therewith, have been duly and validly
performed or given and no other such acts, consents and approvals
are required to be performed or given for said purpose.
Section 6.03. The date          C?l q(f  , is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE VII
Addresses
Section 7.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
vor the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
'acional Financiera, S.A.
Isabel la Cat6lica 51
M6xico 1, D.F.
Mfexico
Cable address:               Telex:
NAFIN                       NAFIN 383-1775765
Mexico City                 Mexico City
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿-6-
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
LWnXerica and the Caribbean
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Works under                   6,200,000         100%
Part A of the
Project
(2) Equipment, including         74,300,000         100%
its installation,
procured in accor-
dance with Parts A
and C.1 of the
Schedule to the
Project Agreement
(3) Equipment procured            2,500,000         85% of local
in accordance                                  expenditures
with Part C.2 of                               ex-store
the Schedule
to the Project
Agreement
(4) Unallocated                   7,000,000
TOTAL             90,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "local expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of the Guarantor or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor.


﻿3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increaser., the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$4,000,000 may be made in respect of Categories (2) and (3)
on account of payments made for such expenditures before that
date but after February 1, 1981.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank and the
Borrower are not needed to meet other expenditures; anA (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
6.   If, after consultation with the Borrower, the Bank shall have
reasonably determined that the procurement of any item in any
Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without
in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or
remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the


﻿-9-
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of CONALEP's training plan for 1981-1983
and consists of:
Part A:
Construction, furnishing and equipping of an Instructional
and Administrative Support Complex, including an Instructor
Training Center, an Instructional Materials Production Center, an
Information and Documentation Center, and an Administrative
Services Center.
Part B:
1.   Construction, furnishing and equipping of about 37 Technical.
Training Centers.
2.   Expansion or remodelling, furnishing and equipping of about
52 Technical Training Centers.
3. . Equipping of about 10 Technical Training Centers.
Part C:
1.   Preparation of CONALEP's development plan for 1984-1988.
2.   Preparation of future technical training projczts.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning February 1, 1985
through   August 1, 1996                   3,750,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 12 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                      1.90%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                             3.85%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                      7.05%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                                      8.30%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                                      9.60%


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this . S.V.   day of        198 L.
SECETARY


