LOAN NUMBER 1854 UNI
Project Agreement
(Ekiti-Akoko Agricultural
Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ONDO STATE OF NIGERIA
Dated                       /5     , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1854 UNI
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                    , 1980,
between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank) and ONDO STATE OF NIGERIA (herein-
after called Ondo State).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Federal Republic of Nigeria (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to thirty-two million five hundred thousand dollars ($32,500,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that Ondo State agrees to undertake such obliga-
tions toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
by the Borrower and Ondo State, the proceeds of the loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to Ondo State
on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS Ondo State, ii consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to under-
take the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined)
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Ondo State shall carry out the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and agricultural practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿-2-
(b) Ondo State shall establish and thereafter maintain an
Agricultural Projects Governing Board (APGB) in a form and with
membership, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Bank. Further provisions relating to APGB are set out in Part A of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c) Ondo State shall establish within MARD and thereafter
maintain an Ekiti-Akoko Project Management Unit (EAPMU) in a form
and with membership, functions and responsibilities satisfactory
to the Bank. Further provisions relating to EAPMU are set out in
Part B of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(d) Ondo State shall estab          nd thereafter maintain
an Ekiti-Akoko Project Technical        M3     Committee (EAPTAC)
in a form and with membership, functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank. Further provisions relating to EAPT06
are set out in Part C of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(e) Ondo State shall publish in its official gazette a
notification of the establishment of APGB and EAPMU which shall
set out the membership, functions and responsibilities of APGB and
EAPMU.
Section 2.02. Ondo State shall, through EAPMU and jointly
with the local government authorities having jurisdiction in the
Project Area, prepare workable proposals for the operation of the
central road maintenance unit to be established under Part B (1)
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and
shall furnish the said proposals to the Bank, for its review, no
later than September 30, 1983.
Section 2.03. (a) Without any limitation or restriction on
the obligations of Ondo State under Section 2.01 (a) above,
Ondo State shall:
(i) establish at a commercial bank and thereafter
maintain with adequate funds a bank account to
be used by EAPMU exclusively for payments for
goods and services required for the Project; and
make, an initial deposit of one million Naira
(N1,000,000) in the bank account;
(ii) authorize EAPMU to establish overdraft facilities
equivalent to six months' project expenditure
requirements determined on the basis of EAPMU's


﻿-3-
annual budget approved by Ondo State and fully
guarantee payment obligations of EAPMU under the
said overdraft facilities; and
(iii) make adequate budgetary provisions for, and pay to
EAPMU at least three months in advance, quarterly
contributions for the Project based on EAPMU's said
approved annual budget and estimated by Ondo State
and the Bank to amount in the aggregate to an
incremental sum of sixteen million seven hundred
thousand Naira (M16,700,000) exclusive of subsi-
dies on farm inputs over the project period.
(b) The Bank and Ondo State estimate that OSACC will require
two million five hundred thousand Naira (N2,500,000) for the
program of term credit to farmers in the Project Area and agree
that these funds shall as far as possible be raised by OSACC but,
that if OSACC is unable to raise these funds, Ondo State shall
contribute to OSACC's equity such amounts as OSACC shall require
to carry out the program.
(c) Ondo State shall through MARD cause EAPMU to furnish to
FMA*and the Bank the annual budget proposed for the Project as
approved by APGB not later than four months immediately before
the commencement of the fiscal year to which it relates, and shall
inform the Bank of its approval before the commencement of the
fiscal year.
Section 2.04. (a) Ondo State shall under an agreement satis-
factory to the Bank employ for the Project a firm of consultants
acceptable to the Badk to recruit the following staff whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
(including terms of reference) shall be satisfactory to the Bank,
namely: (i) for EAPMU: a Project Manager, chief accountant, chief
of technical services, chief evaluation officer, senior training
officer, senior extension officer, chief development engineer,
senior buildings engineer, senior roads and water engineer,
workshop manager, seed processing specialist, poultry planning
specialist, and commercial services manager; and (ii) for OSACC,
a credit specialist and cooperative advisor.
(b) Ondo State shall:
(i) give high priority to the prompt recruitment and
secondment of staff for EAPMU; and


﻿-4-
(ii) cause the local government authorities in the
Project Area to transfer to EAPMU for the duration
of the Project:
(A) any agricultural extension staff they may
have; and
(B) any road staff they may have until the estab-
lishment of the central road maintenance unit
referred to in Section 2.02 above.
Section 2.05. (a) In order to carry out Part E of the
Project, Ondo State shall employ consultants whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment
(including terms of reference) shall be satisfactory to the
Bank.
(b) Ondo State shall cause EAPMU to prepare, and send to the
Bank for its review, the detailed terms of reference of the
consultants mentioned in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b). Ondo State shall: (i) cause EAPMU to liaise closely
with the Central Fertilizer Unit of FMA in the procurement
of fertilizer for the Project and, in particular, to furnish to
the said Unit EAPMU's fertilizer requirements at the times
specified in the timetable mentioned in Section 2.03 of the Loan
Agreement; and (ii) cause EAPMU to procure other farm inputs for
the Project directly from suppliers.
Section 2.07. (a) Ondo State undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transpor-
tation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by Ondo State to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Ondo State
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds


﻿-5-
of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.08. (a) Ondo State shall cause EAPMU to furnish to
the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifica-
tions, reports, contract documents and construction and procure-
ment schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b) Ondo State shall: (i) cause EAPMU to maintain records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of
the Project (including the cost and the benefits to be derived
therefrom), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities -and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) cause EAPMU to
furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the cost
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived therefrom, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in
any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Ondo
State and the Bank, Ondo State shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by Ondo State and the Bank of
their respective obligations under the Project Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) Ondo State shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, sites, works, properties, equipment, records
and documents relevant to the Project.
Section 2.09. Ondo State shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, Ondo State shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amendirng, abrog-
ating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.


﻿Section 2.10. (a) Ondo State shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) Ondo State shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan, or the performance by Ondo State of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.11. (a) Ondo State shall provide in its budgets
amounts sufficient to cover any loss EAPMU may incur in any year
on account of the sale or provision by EAPMU of farm inputs or
service to farmers participating in the Project at subsidized
prices or rates determined by Ondo State. Ondo State shall pay
EAPMU, no later than September 30 of the year immediately
preceding the year in which the farm input or service is to be
procured, an amount equal to a reasonable estimate of such loss
furnished by EAPMU to Ondo State. After the farm input or service
has been procured, necessary adjustments shall be made between
Ondo State and EAPMU to ensure that payments made by Ondo State
pursuant to this Section shall correspond to the loss actually
incurred by EAPMU.
(b) Ondo State shall cause EAPMU to sell all inputs and
provide services (other than inputs or services subsidized by the
Borrower or by Ondo State) to farmers participating in the Project
at prices or rates that shall permit the recovery by EAPMU of
the full cost to EAPMU of such inputs or services.
Section 2.12. (a) Ondo State shall take or cause to be
taken all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and
when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for the carrying out of the Project and shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satis-
factory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land
are available for purposes related to the Project.
(b) Ondo State shall, no later than April 1, 1980, cause
to be transferred to EAPMU responsibility for all relevant agri-
cultural extension work in the Project Area.


﻿-7-
Section 2.13. (a) Ondo State shall review annually with
EAPMU, EAPTCC and the local government councils in the Project
Area, road, wells and dams maintenance and staff training require-
ments.
(b) Ondo State shall ensure that the said councils are
provided with sufficient funds to carry out their road, wells and
dams maintenance functions.
Section 2.14. Ondo State shall, during the fourth year of the
Project, cause the Monitoring and Evaluation Department of EAPMU
assisted by the Planning Unit of APMEPU to prepare a report and
formulate proposals on the Project's progress and shall forward
to, and review with, the Bank and the Borrower such report and
proposals making for the purpose of this review such recommenda-
tions for the future of the Project as it shall consider neces-
sary.
Section 2.15. The terms and conditions of credit provided
under the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement. Ondo State and the Bank shall, until the completion
of the Project, periodically review the credit charges and
interest rate specified in the said Schedule 2 with a view to
determining the levels appropriate to the Project.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Ondo State shall cause EAPMU to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 3.02. Ondo State shall cause EAPMU: (i) to have its
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) to furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including a statement in such report as to whether the


﻿-8-
proceeds of the Loan had been used for their intended purpose; and
(iii) to furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of EAPMU and the audit thereof
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of Ondo State therednder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly so notify Ondo State thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancel-
lation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement
between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is
required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party
shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice
or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-9-
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Ondo State:
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Agriculture
and Rural Development
Akure
Ondo State of Nigeria
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Ondo State may be taken or executed
by its Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development or such other person or persons as the said Permanent
Secretary shall designate in writing, and Ondo State shall furnish
to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /4/       * O
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
ONDO STATE OF NIGERIA
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Proqurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Contracts for the purchase of vehicles, road-making and other
equipment, materials, fertilizer, chemicals, insecticides and farm
inputs estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more shall
be procured in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Lo:-is and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, Ondo State shall cause EAPMU to prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in
question. Ondo State shall cause EAPMU to provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international,competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and
sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to EAPMU of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the purchase of vehicles, road-making and other
equipment, materials, fertilizer, chemicals, insecticides and farm


﻿- 11 -
inputs estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000 but
more than $30,000 and contracts for houses, stores and buildings
shall be let after competitive bidding based on local advertising
in accordance with local procurement procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
2.   Vehicles, road-making and other equipment, materials, fer-
tilizers, chemicals, insecticides and farm inputs estimated to
cost the equivalent of $30,000 or less shall be purchased through
local competitive shopping.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods, except those to be procured in accordande
with local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported
goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied
goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to EAPMU of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
2.   Goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Nigeria if the bidder shall have established to


﻿- 12 -
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in the territory of the Borrower equal
to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of
such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufac-
tured in the territory of the Borrower.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first
compared among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other
import taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar
taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the
lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids
shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of
this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest,
it shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiv-
alent of $100,000 or more:


﻿- 13 -
(a) Before bids are invited, Ondo State shall cause EAPMU
to furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invita-
tions to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall cause EAPMU to make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Bank
shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Ondo
State shall, before a final decision on the award is made, cause
EAPMU to inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which EAPMU
intends to award the contract and shall cause EAPMU to furnish to
the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on
the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly . inform
Ondo State and EAPMU and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
delivery to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2. With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
Ondo State shall cause EAPMU to furnish to the Bank, promptly
after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform Ondo State and EAPMU and state the
reasons for such determination.


﻿- 14 -
3.   To the extent possible items to be procured shall be bulked
to permit optimum use of competitive bidding.


-   1 5   - 
S C H E D U L E   2 
L e n d i n g   T e r m s   a n d   C o n d i t i o n s 
1 .       E A P M U   s h a l l   p r o v i d e   s e a s o n a l   c r e d i t   i n   k i n d   t o   c r e d i t w o r t h y 
f a r m e r s   p a r t i c i p a t i n g   i n   t h e   P r o j e c t   f o r   f e r t i l i z e r ,   s e e d   a n d 
o t h e r   a g r i c u l t u r a l   i n p u t s .   E A P M U   s h a l l   t a k e   a l l   n e c e s s a r y   s t e p s   t o 
r e c o v e r   a l l   c r e d i t   e x t e n d e d   t o   f a r m e r s   f o r   s u c h   i n p u t s . 
2 .       S e a s o n a l   c r e d i t s   s h a l l   b e a r   a n   a n n u a l   i n t e r e s t   c h a r g e 
e q u a l   t o   1 0 %   o r   a   c h a r g e   t w o   a n d   o n e - h a l f   p e r c e n t a g e   p o i n t s   a b o v e 
N A C B ' s   c u r r e n t   l e n d i n g   r a t e , -   w h i c h e v e r   i s   t h e   h i g h e r . 
3 .       O S A C C   s h a l l   p r o v i d e   m e d i u m -   a n d   l o n g - t e r m   c r e d i t   t o   c r e d i t - 
w o r t h y   f a r m e r s   p a r t i c i p a t i n g   i n   t h e   P r o j e c t   f o r   s e e d   f a r m   r e q u i r e - 
m e n t s ,   m i n i m u m   t i l l a g e   e q u i p m e n t ,   m a i z e   c r i b s   a n d   p o u l t r y   b r e e d i n g 
f a c i l i t i e s . 
4 .       T h e   c o s t   o f   l a n d   c l e a r i n g   u n d e r t a k e n   b y   E A P M U   s h a l l   b e 
s u b j e c t   t o   f u l l   c o s t   r e c o v e r y   f r o m   t h e   b e n e f i c i a r y   a t   a n   i n t e r e s t 
r a t e   o n   t h e   b a l a n c e   o u t s t a n d i n g   o f   9 . 5 %   o r   a   r a t e   o f   t w o   p e r c e n - 
t a g e   p o i n t s   a b o v e   N A C B ' s   c u r r e n t   l e n d i n g   r a t e ,   w h i c h e v e r   i s 
h i g h e r . 
5 .       T h e   t e r m   " N A C B ' s   c u r r e n t   l e n d i n g   r a t e "   m e a n s   t h e   m a x i m u m 
p r e v a i l i n g   i n t e r e s t   r a t e   c h a r g e d   b y   N i g e r i a n   A g r i c u l t u r a l   a n d 
C o o p e r a t i v e   B a n k   o n   i t s   l o a n s   a t   t h e   t i m e   w h e n   l a n d   i s   o c c u p i e d 
b y   t h e   P r o j e c t   b e n e f i c i a r y   o r   w h e n   s e a s o n a l   c r e d i t   i n   k i n d   i s 
e x t e n d e d   t o   t h e   P r o j e c t -   b e n e f i c i a r y . 


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Part A:  Agricultural Projects Governing Board
(1) APGB shall consist of the following members:
(a) Commissioner, MARD                        Chairman.
(b) Permanent Secretary, MARD.
(c) Five members appointed by Ondo State Governor
in consultation with the Commissioner, MARD.
(d) A representative of FMA.
(e) A representative of Ondo State Ministry of Finance.
(f) A representative of Ondo State Ministry of Works
and Transport.
(g) A representative of co-opted agencies of Ondo
State.
(2) The Chief Planning Officer shall be the Secretary of
APGB.
(3) APGB's duties shall include:
(a) determination of project policy;
(b) budgetary and financial control of the Project
(including review and approval of the annual
budget proposed by EAPMU and submission of such
budget for approval by Ondo State);
(c) approval of annual work programs;
(d) appointment of senior management and technical
staff;
(e) ensuring cooperation between and coordination
of activities of institutions and agencies
participating in carrying out the Project; and


﻿- 17 -
(f) ensuring cooperation and coordination between the
Project and other agricultural projects in Ondo
State.
(4) APGB will be advised on technical matters'by an Agricul-
tural Projects Technical Advisory Committee which shall
consist of the following members:
(a) Permanent Secretary, MARD                   Chairman;
(b) Chief Agricultural Officer;
(c) Chief Veterinary Officer;
(d) Chief Conservator of Forests;
(e) Chief Fisheries Officer;
(f) Chief Agricultural Planning Officer;
(g) Chief Agricultural Engineer;
(h) Chief Rural Development Officer;
(i) Chief Produce Officer;
(j) Secretary for Finance and Administration;
(k) such project officers as may be co-opted from time
to time; and
(1) Two members of APGB.
Part B: Ekiti-Akoko Project Management Unit
(1) EAPMU shall be primarily responsible for executing
the Project.
(2) EAPIU shall be answerable to APGB on all matters relat-
ing to the execution of the Project.


﻿- 18 -
(3) EAPMU shall be advised on technical matters relating
to the Project by EAPTAC.
(4) EAPMU's other duties shall include:
(a) the assumption of MARD's relevant agricultural
services in the Project Area; and
(b) the administration in the Project Area of the local
government authorities' existing agricultural
extension and road services.
(5) EAPMU shall be headed by the Project Manager.
(6) EAPMU shall have the following divisions:
(a) Training Division;
(b) Finance Division;
(c) Administration Division;
(d) Commercial Services Division;
(e) Monitoring and Evaluation Division;
(f) Technical Services Division; and
(g) Engineering Services Division.
Each division head shall be responsible to the Project
Manager.
(6) EAPMU shall send its proposed annual budget to APGB
for approval and, after approval, to FMA and the Bank
for information.
Part C:   Ekiti-Akoko Project Technical Advisory Committee
(1) Within the Project Area there will be established in
each local government jurisdiction an ad hoc advisory
committee to the EAPMU. Membership of these committees
shall include:


﻿- 19 -
(a) representatives of the local government authority;
(b) representatives of other agencies of Ondo State
participating in carrying out the Project;
(c) selected farmers; and
(d) project technical staff.
The ad hoc committees will be chaired by the Project
Manager or his representative.
(2) The said ad hoc committees shall advise on the siting
of farm service centers, roads and other infrastructure,
establishment of guidelines for land allocation and
ensuring minimum overlap of project and non-project
activities.
(e) The joint meeting of the ad hoc committees shall be
known as the Ekiti-Akoko Project Technical Advisory
Committee.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this   f      day of za4   ,1980
FOR SECRETARY


