Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CA   /,5z ' '
Report No. 5193-MALU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
March 7, 1985
Western Africa Projects Department
Public Enterprise Unit
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WVorld Bank authorization-



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = 0--guiya (UM)
USS 1.00 = UM 80.0
UM 1.00 = US$ .0125
WEICUTS AND MEASURES
1 Meter (m)              3.28 feet (ft)
1 Square meter (n2) _    10.76 square feet (so. ft)
1 Filometer (kip)    -    0.62 mile (mi)
1 Metric ton (mt)   -    2,205 pounds (lb)
1 Liter (1)         -    0.26 US gallons
1 Cubic meter (m3) -    264 US gallons
1 kV                -    1,000 volts
1 MW                -    1 million watts
1 Gwh               -    1 billion watt-hours
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCCE      : Caisse Centrale de Ccoperation Economique
CNSS      : Caisse Nationale de Securite Sociale
CRSP      : Cellule de Redressement du Secteur Parapublic
DTAF      : Direction de la Tutelle Administrative et Financiere
ECU       : European Currency Unit
EDF       : Europeai' Development Fund
EIB       : European Investment Bank
EMN       : Etablissement Maritime de Nouakchott
EPAP         Entreprise Publique a caractere Administratif et
Professionnel
EPIC      : Entreprise Fublique a caractere Industriel et Commercial
FAC       : Fonds d'AIde et de Cooperation
ILO          International Labor Organization
IGF       : Inspectorate Generale de Finance
KfW       : Kreditanstalt fur W4iederaufbau
OCAM      : Organisation Commune Africaine et Hauritienne
OPT       : Office des Postes et Th16communications
PE        : Public Enterprises
?PF       : Project Preparation Facility
SEM: Socifte d'Economie Mixte
SNINI     : Societe Nationale Industrielle et Miniere
SONELEC   : Societe Nationale d'Eau et d'Electricite
FISCAL YEAR
Januarv 1 to D*ecember 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE ..........   ....................... iv-v
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ......................................... vi-viii
I.  THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR ...................................   1
A.  The Economic Context ....... ................                  1
B. Sector Expansion and Objectives .     . ..........................   2
C.- Structure and Organization ......  .....................       2
D. Economic Impact and Importance .....    ...................     2
E. Financial Status ...........................................    3
F. Institutional Framework   ....................................  5
G. Sector Constraints  .........................................   6
B. Government's Rehabilitation Strategy    .      ...............   7
1.  Interministerial Committee .............................   7
2. Reform Measures ....... ................                    8
3. Present Status and Calendar ...................             8
I. IDA's Role          ................................................   10
1. Past Involvement ...................     ....................  10
2.  Approach .......................    ........................  11
II.  THE ENTERPRISES ................................................  12
A.  Introduction ...............................................  12
B.  SONELEC ....................................................  12
C.    EMN   ............... ... .............  ........           15
D. OPT ..... 17
This report was prepared by Ms. M. Alexander on the basis of an
appraisal mission that visited Mauritania in October-November 1983. The
mission, led by Mr. J.P. Le Bouder (WA2DB loan officer), consisted of Messrs.
de Leede (WA2/senior economist), Calegari (WAPWS/sanitary engineer), Ouahes
(WAPEG/ power engineer), Jones (LEG/lawyer), Poinsot (power consultant),
Renault (institutional consultant) and Malkin (institutional consultant) and
Ms. Alexander (VAPPE/financial analyst).  An additional visit was made by Mr.
Fateen (port consultant) in December 1983. Supporting appendices on each of
the enterprises included in the project were prepared by Ms. Alexander and
Messrs. Calegari and Fateen. Secretarial support was provided by Ms.
Uslaner, Ms. Mudd, Ms. Whittaker and Ms. Pendleton.
Thi document has a retited disttion and may be used by recpients only in the perfomnce or 
Ltirofficial duties. Its contents may not otherwis be disdosed without World Bank authorizati



- ii -
Table of Contents (continued)                                             Page
III. THE PROJECT ...........................................               18
A.  Objectives ...................................                    18
B.  Description ...       .....................................   19
1. Sector Reform .. . . . 9..... 1
2. Emergency Support for SONELEC .. . ....... 21
3.  Emergency Support for EMN    ..............................   22
4. Technical Assistance to .OPT .. . ....... 23
C.  Project Costs         ..... ..........................  24
D.  Financing Plan        ..................................          27
IV. PROJECT IPFLEMENTATION .........................................    28
A.  Organization and Management   ................................   28
1.  Enterprise Project Management   ..........................   28
2.  Public Enterprise Rehabilitation Unit (CRSP)       . .    29
3.  The Program Contract Process .......    ....................   30
4. Inter-Ministerial Coordination ...... ...................   30
5.  Training Programs ......................................  31
B.  Implementation Plan ...............................   32
C. Procurement                   . . . ............. 32
D.  Disbursements ......................... ....    34
E.  Revolving Funds .......................    36
F.  Accounts and Audits              .     .      . ....... ......  36
G.  Reporting and Monitoring        .......................    36
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS ......................... 37
A.  Benefits .............................. .37
B. Economic Justification .....................................   37
C.  The Need for Technical Assistance      ..........................  38
D.  Risks     ...................           ..................   38
VI.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ..................................  39
A. Agreements Reached ...................... .39
B. Recommendation .................                                   42



iii-
Table of Contents (continued)
ANNEXES
1-1 Government Reform Measures
1-2 Sector Reform Program
1-3 First-Phase Sector Restructuring
2-1 SONELEC: Financial Performance and Prospects
2-2 SONELEC: Action Plan
2-3 EMN: Financial Performance and Prospects
2-4 EMN: Action Plan
2-5 OPT: Financial Performance
2-6 OPT: Action Plan
3-1 CRSP: Terms of Reference
3-2 Rehabilitation Process
3-3 Description of Studies and Advisory Services
3-4 SONELEC: Detailed Project Description
3-5 EMN: Detailed Project Description
3-6  OPT: Detailed Project Description
3-7 Sector Reform: Detailed Cost Estimates
3-8 SONELEC: Detailed Cost Estimates
3-9 EMN: Detailed Cost Estimates
3-10 OPT: Detailed Cost Estimates
4-1 CRSP Organization Structure
4-2 Project Implementation Plan
4-3 Estimated Disbursement Profile
4-4 Sector Reform: Monitoring Indicators
4-5 SONELEC: Monitoring Indicators
4-6 EMN: Monitoring Indicators
4-7 OPT: Monitoring Indicators
5-1 SONELEC: Economic Analysis
5-2 EMU: Economic Analysis
MAP IBRD No. 16452



- IIv-
MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE NO.
Ref. No.                        Document
1.  Report Appendices:          1: Societe Nationale d'Eau et d'Electricite
2: Etablissement Maritime de Nouakchott
3: Office des Postes et Telecommunications
2.                              Benichou, Wim. Les Entreprises Publiques en
Republique Islaiique de Mauritanie, March
1983
3                               RIM, Report to Inter-Ministerial Commission
on Public Enterprises (in French). undated
4.                              RIM, Les Entreprises Publiques
Mauritaniennes.  Elements d'Ensemble Pour le
Redressement et le D4veloppement du Secteur,
undated
5.                              Conseil de Ministres, RIM, Nesures Urgentes a
prendre en vue du Redressement des
Entreprises publiques, November 1983
6.                              Ministere du Plan, Restructuration du Secteur
Parapublic, March 1984
7.                              CCCE, Note pour le Conseil de Surveillance de
la Caisse Ceutrale de Cooperation Economique,
Societe Nationale d'Eau et d'Electricite
(Hauritanie) Fevrier 1984
8.                              Ordonnance No. 84038, Fixant le Regime des
Etablissement Publics 25 Fevrier 1984
9.                              BIT, Memorandum au Gouvernement de Mauritanie
sur la politique des salaires, 1984
10.                             FAC, Etude relative au trafic telephonique
pour la creation d'une station terrienne a
Nouakchott, F&vrier 1983



11.                              UIT, Actualisation de l'Etude Economique
Prepare par SOFRECOM en 1977 pour la
Republique Lslamique de Mauritanie, September
1982
12.                              OPT: Financial Performance
OPT: Action Plans
Thlesuiise, Identification des besoins de la
Composante Re-habilitation des
Telecommunications de la Republique
Islamique, Novembre 1983
13.                              Telesuisse, Information du Traitement des
Factures telephoniques et des salaires a
1'OPT de Mauritanie
ler Rapport Octobre 1983
2eme Rapport Octobre 1983
3eme Rapport Novembre 1983
14.                              Bastard et ai, Rapport de Mission,
Etabliseement Maritime de Nouakchott, July
1983
15.                              Valla, Etablissement Maritime de Nouakchott.
Analyse des Circuits Administratifs et
Organisation de la Fonction Comptable,
undated
16.                              Poinsot, M. Analyse-Diagnostic de la Societe
Nationale d'Eau et d'Electricit6 et
Propositions en vue de son Redressement,
Septembre 1983
17.                              Poinsot, M. Proposition dtOrganigrazme des
Fonctions de SONELEC, Novembre 1983
18.                              Renaud, L. SONELEC: Preparation Report on
Institutional Organization, March 1984
19.                              SONELEC: Mesures Envisagees en vue de
Redressement, D6cembre 1983
20.                              Djebri, SONELEC, Rapport d'Audit, Aouit 1983
21.                              SONELEC: Financial Performance and Prospects
Working Papers on SONELEC (various documents
including accounts, statutes, etc.)



- vi -
22.                            EDN: Financial Performance and prospects
EMN: Actions Plans
Working Papers on EMN (various documents
including accounts, statutes, etc.)
23.                             Working Papers for CRSP, Ministry of Plan
(Terms of Reference, bidding documents,
consultants' submissions, etc.)
WAPPE
November 1984



MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT A1D PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Government of Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Implementing Agencies:   Ministry of Planning
Electricity and Water Company (SONELEC)
Port Authority at Nouakchott (EMN)
Post, Telecommuniations and Savings Bank Company (OPT)
Credit Amount:            SDR    million (US$16.4 million)
Terms:                    Standard !DA terms
Relending Terms:          Proceeds of the Credit other than the funds for the
sector reform will be onlent at about 1OZ, the Bank's
prevailing interest rate, as follows:
(a) SONELEC: 15 years including 5 years grace
(b) EMN: 10 years including 3 years grace
(c) OPT: 10 years including 3 years grace
Government will assume the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:      The project comprises components aimed at
(a) creating a central agency within the
Ministry of Plan to formulate policy, carry
out reforms and coordinate programs affecting
the public enterprise sector; (b) undertaking
a series of special studies in the parastatal sector to
propose new policy directions for government; (c)
initiating diagnostic studies of other public
enterprises for the next phase of the rehabilitation
strategy; (d) rehabilitating the operation of two key
public enterprises (SONELEC and EMN) by upgrading
equipment, restoring capacity and providing technical
assistance and training; (e) assisting OPT with
expertise and equipment in the area of financial
management and further rehabilitation studies.



- viii -
Estimated Costs:                       Local                Foreign                 Total
~~~~~~~~- --US$ MIilion- -
Sector Reform                            0.6                     2.6                  3.2
SONELEC                                  2.1                    12.8                 14.9
EMN                                      0.2                     3.3                  3.5
OPT                                      0.2                     0.8                  1.0
Total Base Cost                          3.1                    19.5                 22.6
Physical Contingencies                   0.2                     1.4                  1.6
Price Contingencies                      0.7                     4.3                  5.0
Total Project Cost                       4.0                    25.2                 29.2
Financing Plan:
Local                Foreign                Total
--…------US$ Million----
IDA                                      0.5                    15.9                 16.4
CCCE                                       -                     3.0                  3.0
FAC                                        -                     0.9                  0.9
EDF                                        -                     1.3                  1.3
EIB                                                              4.0                  4.0
Government and Enterprises               3.5                     0.2                  3.7
Total                                    4.0                    25.2                 29.2
IBRD Fiscal Years
Estimated
Disbursements:            1986           1987           1988           1989          1990
==== - --    --    US$ Million -
Annual                     2.6            4.1            5.1            3.7           0.9
Cumulative                 2.6            6.7           11.8           15.5          16.4
Project Benefits and
Risks:                    The principal benefits of this project would be the creation
of institutional arrangements and policies for the
management of the parastatal sector and the improved
operations of several key public enterprises. There are no
foreseen major engineering risks; however, there are risks
that the project may not be able to achieve its
institutional objectives due to the complexity of the
problems facing public enterprises and the pervasive
technical, financial and human resource weaknesses evident
in the sector.



- ix -
Economic Rate of Return  (ERR was calculated only for those components entailing
physical investment)
SONELEC component: 44%
EMN component:       68%
Overall:            44%
Staff Appraisal Report No: 5193-MAU
MAP: IBRD No. 16452
WAPPE
March 1985



MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR
A.   The Economic Context
1.01      The Mauritanian economy is in an increasingly deep economic and
financial crisis. After strong growth of 8% per annum in the 1960s, the
economy has been deteriorating in the past decade because of a series of
severe droughts, shrinking agriculture and livestock production, the weak
world market for iron ore (which accounts for over three-fourths of export
earrings), the maintenance of a sizable military force, and poor economic and
financial management. Large external capital inflows, often on concessional
terms, helped to finance the country's increasing financial deficits.;
however, these have declined more recently with official grants amounting to
about 12X of GDP in 1983, down from 26% in 1978. External public debt has
thus risen to US$1.8 billion at end 1983; debt service obligations are
already well beyond the country's payment capacity.
1.02      Recent performance and the current medium-term outlook of the
Mauritanian economy are decidedly weak. Aggregate GDP actually declined by
5' in 1983. World iron ore prices took a further decline in 1984 and the
agricultural sector has met serious reversal with the repetition of extreme
drought in the past two years which has resulted in major losses in the
livestock herd and a drop in cereals production to less than 10% of total
demand.
1.03      The deterioration of the past two years has renewed Government's
willingness to put in place a comprehensive economic recovery plan and its
sense of urgency in obtaining the needed financial and technical assistance.
Relatively austere current expenditure policies, including severe restraint
of wage increases, have already been put into effect in the past few years.
There now remains an urgent need to undertake a major strengthening of
government finance, a reorientation of investment policies and a
reorganization of the public enterprises, banking system and agricultural and
fishing sectors.
1.04      Discussions are underway with IDA and the IMF to shape a
medium-term rehabilitation plan, attacking the most severe monetary and
fiscal problems facing the economy. A key part of this plan would be, among
other things, policy actions in the area of public finance, exchange rates,
public investment, domestic pricing and restructuring of the public
enterprise sector in order to improve capacity utilization and efficiency.
IDA's support for these efforts would be accomplished through continued
high-level discussions, provision of technical assistance in preparing and
implementing Government's recovery program, and specific project assistance,



-2-
supplying technical advice and emergency physical rehabilitation, in the
parastatal sector.
B.  Sector Expansion and Objectives
1.05      Throughout the 1960s and early 1970s, Government rapidly expanded
the size of the parapublic sector to more than 100 enterprises. The main
wotivating factors behind this expansion were the flexibility and relative
autonomy offered by the public enterprise structure and the desire to promote
and manage key elements of the productive sector, notably essential public
services and some industrial and agricultural operations. The use of public
enterprises as a vehicle to attract foreign capital and technology was also a
factor, especiallv in the mining and fishing sectors.  The large amounts of
foreign capital available at that time and the overconfidence in its
managerial capacity encouraged Government in this expansionary policy.
C.   Structure and Organization
1.06      Government classifies public enterprises into three categories:
professional and administrative enterprises ("Entreprises Publiques a
caractare Administratif et Professionnel' - EPAP), commercial and industrial
enterprises ("Entreprises Publiques a caractere Industriel et Commercial" -
EPIC), and enterprises of mixed public-private ownership  ("Societes
d'Economie Mixte' - SEM). The EPAPs are defined as entities that offer
public services free of charge (or at less than full cost-recovery) sustained
by Government funding through direct operating and capital subsidies. The
EPICs, on the other hand, are expected to operate on a commercial basis and
in principle should be financially self-sufficilet- The SEEs exist as joint
ventures between Government and private partners, usually foreign. In some
case . Government's holdings in SEMs are minority positions while Government
has 10OZ ownership in EPICs. In total, there are about 56 EPAPs, 25 EPICs
and 27 SEMs, plus four private companies in which Government has a minority
share. It should be noted that the classification of enterprises does not
correspond in all cases. There are a number of EPICs which, in actual fact,
have no commercial objective and should be reclassified as EPAPs. Strictly
speaking, only EPICs and the SEMs are considered public enterprises, with
the EPAPs generally are a form of decentralized or autonomous government
services.
D.  Economic Impact and Importance
1.07      Public enterprises are estimated to account for about 20-25% of
GDP. about one fourth of modern sector employment and about 40% of gross
fixed investment (not including major mining investments). Loans to public
enterprises, principally from multilateral and bilateral organizations, are
estisated to represent about 20-25Z of Mauritania's public external debt.
However, servicing these debts, because of their generally harder terms, is
projected to represent over 50% of total public debt service in future years,
averaging some UM 2 billion (US$25 million) per year. Transfers and



-3-
subsidies to public enterprises are estimated to amount to UM 1 billion per
year (US$12.5 million) roughly equivalent to 10% of total government
recurrent expenditure.
1.08      By f.- the largest and most important public enterprise is the
"Societe Nationale Industrielle et Miniere" (SNIM) which operates the iron
ore mine at Kedia, related port and rail infrastructure, and a small steel
plant. Its sales cf iron ore of about 7-8 million tons per year give SNIM
about 7X of the European iron ore import market. SNIM generates over 60% of
the country's export earnings, about half of the public enterprise sector's
share of GDP, and accounts for 95Z of industrial value added. As a mixed
enterprise, 71% government owned, it is run as an enclave operation. SNIK
was the recipient of a World Bank Loan of US$60 million (Ln. 1747-MAU)
approved in 1979, for the expansion of its iron ore operations at Guelbs.
However, due to a depressed iron market and low iron ore prices, th's
investment is not performing as well as expected and SNIM's operations have
suffered. The company incurred a small loss in 1983 but was able to regain
modest profitability in 1984. An action plan to restore SNIM's financial
viability is currently being discussed between the Government, SNIM's owners
and financiers.
1.09      The next largest public enterprises, mostly classifled as EPIC,
include the electricity and water company ("Societe Nationale d'Eau et
d'Electricite" - SONELEC), the post, telecommunications and savings bank
company ("Office des Postes et Telecommunications" - OPT), the port authority
at Nouakchott ("Etablissement Maritime de Nouakchott - EMN), the local
airline (Air Mauritanie), a rural development company (SONADER), and an
import-export trading company (SONIMEX). The first three enterprises, which
are proposed for rehabilitation as part of the project, represent about 10%
of value-added by public enterprises and about 28Z if SHIM is excluded.
Among the most important EPAP is the Social Security Agency ("Caisse
Nationale de Securite Sociale" - CNSS) which, unlike to most other EPAPs, is
currently a major source of savings.
E.   Financial Status
1.10      In a sample of some eleven enterprises and five banks 1/  in 1980
for vhich the most recent data are available, the aggregate deficit of seven
1/  SOCOGIM - Construction company
Air Mauritania - State airline
EMN - Port of Nouakchott
PAN - Port of Nouadhibou
OPT - Post and Telecommunications
SONIMEX - General export-import company
SMCPP - Gasoline retail outlet
SMAR - Insurance company
(Footnote Continued)



-4-
enterprises was over UK 400 million (US$5.0 million), in contrast to total
profits for the other nine enterprises of about UN 770 million (US$9.6
million), of which UM 500 million (US$6.3 million) was accounted for by SNI].
It should further be noted that due to the inconsistent and unreliable nature
of enterprise accounts, it is very likely that reported figures far overstate
actual profits and understate losses. Enterprises incurring losses include
SOCOGIM (the construction company), Air Mauritania, EMN, SONIMEX, SMAR
(insurance), PHARMARIK (a pharmaceutical retail company), and SONELEC.
1.11      As major shareholder, Government has made a substantial investment
in its public enterprises. In total, as of end-1982, Government's investment
had reached UM 12.5 billion (US$156 million). Excluding SNIN, this amount
would be about UK 3.5 billion (US$44 million), reflecting SNIM's
preponderance in the sector. in addition, Government has frequently serviced
foreign debts contracted by these enterprises (usually with Government
guarantee) especially since 1978 and those enterprises with severe financial
problems have ceased to pay regular taxes. Taxes payable including heavy
penalties now amount to at least UM 1,200 million (US$15 million). As a
result, Government continues to support enterprises, either directly through
operating subsidies or indirectly through other means, without commensurate
return.
1.12      In turn, as Government's budgetary situation has worsened, it has
ceased paying enterprises and has built up large accounts payable due to
public enterprises. Three enterprises-OPT, Air Mauritania and SONELEC-are
estimated to account for about 90% of Government arrears in payment to public
enterprises which amounted to about UM 600 million (US$7.5 million) in 1983.
One reason for this accumulation of arrears is that Government systematically
underbudgets expenses relating to water, electricity, post and
telecommunications. To demonstrate this point. it should be noted that, in
1979, non-personnel related Government operating expenditures were budgeted
to be UM 4.0 billion (US$50 million) while, in 1981, such items were
allocated only UM 2 billion (US$25 million). During that same period,
tariffs for services such as water, electricity, telephone and post were
increased substantially-as much as 50%-indicating that since government
consumption was not curtailed the only recourse was to leave bills unpaid.
1.13      Besides the amounts owed to Government and from Government by
public enterprises, enterprises owe other enterprises substantial amounts,
particularly with regard to employer contributions to the CNSS. As of
end-1983, public enterprises were behind UM 295 million (US$3.7 million) in
these payments. Other inter-company debts among enterprises typically relate
to suppliers of various goods and services, notably SONELEC, OPT and SMCPP
(Footnote Continued)
PHARMARIM - Pharmaceutical whole and retail company
SONELEC - Water and electricity company
CNSS - Social security agency
Banques (5) - Commercial and development banks



(gasoline wholesale and retail sales) but, with the exception of about UM 700
million (US$8.8 million) being owned by SMCPP to the oil refinery, these
amounts are not large. Overdrafts and domestic credits, furthermore, are not
excessive, the main beneficiary of local bank credit being SONIEX to finance
its export-import trade operations.
F.   Institutional Framewo-k
1.14      The applicable institutional framework for public enterprises
depends on their legal classification-EPAP, EPIC or SEK. A new law,
approved in early 1984, covers both EPIC and SEM, 2/ but distinguishes among
enterprises on the basis of the degree of government ownership.
Majority-owned enterprises are effectively controlled by government through
provisions of this law, while minority-owned enterprises are, more generally,
governed by laws applicable to private corporations, with certain exceptions.
The public enterprise law provides for joint supervision of enterprises by
their respective technical ministry, as designated in each enterprise's
founding decree, and the Ministry of Finance. These two ministries approve
tariffs, enterprise budgets and financial accounts while the technical
ministry alone approves internal by-laws, personnel regulations, organization
structure, senior appointments and annual operating plans. All enterprises
are administered by a board of directors, and must have their accounts
reviewed by an external auditor ("Commissaire aux Comptes") annually. The
new law requires that enterprises enter into a program contract with
Government and prepare medium-term corporate plans.
1.15      The Ministry of Finance monitors financial performance through  the
Directorate of Administrative and Financial Supervision (t"Direction de la
Tutelle Administrative et Financiere' - DTAF). Created in 1982 with French
and the International Labor Organization (ILO) assistance, DTAF is
responsible for: (a) overseeing enterprise performance by examining annual
budgets, verifying financial statements, and reviewing all financially
related documents and/or actions that require the approval of the Minister of
Finance; (b) reviewing all requests that involve financial commitments by
Government (e.g., subsidies, loans, guarantees); (c) proposing the
appointment of auditors; and (d) developing standard accountiug and financial
management systems and practices, including accounting training. As a
relatively new organization, with a broad mandate and few resources, DTAF has
only begun to understand the public enterprise sector and to cope with its
difficulties.
1.16      Enterprises also fall under the control of other agencies that
normally exercise control over public funds. The Inspectorate General of
Finance ("Inspectorate Generale de Finance" - IGF) in the Ministry of Finance
specifically monitors the financial records of all entities receiving public
funds. State controllers, attached to the Presidency, may also carry out
2/ The law exempts SNEM and the Central Bank from application.



-6-
special investigations into alleged misdoings. Financial controllers carry
out checks .Wf financial transactions involving public funds and approve all
contracts ;and agreements of a certain size.
1.17      Prior to the new law (para. 1.14), there were three categories of
public enterprise personnel--those officials who fall under the general civil
service regulations, auxiliary officers governed by special law, and others
governed by the labor code and collective agreements. Typically, senior
management would fall under either of the first two categories while middle
managers and laborers are engaged under generally applicable labor
regulations.   On the vhole, enterprise staffs tend to be paid more than
their equivalent counterparts in the civil service and have access to
benefits not customarily available to public servants. The lack of formal
personnel policies, adequate regulation and review, however, results in
inequities among individuals and even enterprises. The public enterprise law
provides for a specific public enterprise compensation program. However,
this program has not yet been prepared and it is urgently required in order
to fill that void.
G.   Sector Constraints
1.18      The effective operation of Mauritania's public enterprise sector is
hampered by financial, legal, political, organizational and human resource
constraints. These constraints, coupled with the country's severely limited
development potential, create significant barriers to the financial,
technical and economic viability of the enterprises that make up the sector.
As elaborated more fully in the detailed diagnostic studies of selected
public enterprises and highlighted in Goverrment's own assessment of its
public enterprise sector (para. 1.25), the problems facing the sector are
pervasive and only a few are highlighted here.
1.19      One of the most significant deficiencies of public enterprises is
the lack of overall planning, policy direction and management of the sector.
Decisions with regard to specific enterprises are often made in isolation,
without consideration of sectoral objectives or long-term implications on
public finances. Nor are there appropriate means to monitor enterprise
performance and to evaluate the sector's aggregate impact on macroeconomic
results. A key reason for this is the lack of sufficiently trained human
resources within the supervising ministries to monitor and control the sector
effectively.  In addition, enterprises are often created and continue to
operate with confused and conflicting objectives and are not subject to
rigorous evaluation against sound economic criteria before being established.
1.20      Another very serious concern, which constrains the  sector's
performance, is the complexity, ambiguity and conflicts inherent in
Government's dealings with its enterprises. These relationships encompass
formal administrative controls over the use of foreign exchange, contracting
and procurement procedures, and banking transactions; controls over tariffs
and pricing policy; approval of personnel appointments, salaries, and
organization structures; reviews and controls over major financial
transactions, annual accounts and audits. There are, moreover, several



-7-
levels of controls and ambiguities in the respective responsibilities of the
different control agencies. The legal framework, which has vastly been
improved with the passing of the new law in early 1984, will require further
refinement to clear up any remaining ambiguities and inconsistencies and to
clarify application to specific enterprises.
1.21      A further aspect of these relationships is the lack of normal
commercial discipline between goverment and its enterprises. Due to its own
financial difficulties and bureaucratic inefficiencies, Goverrment is
notoriously slow in making payments to enterprises while, in turn,
enterprises are slow to settle taxes and to meet other commitments to
Government.  These liquidity difficultiec can spill-over to other public
enterprises, the banking system and private enterprises.
h.   Government's Rehabilitation Strategy
1.22      The problems of Mauritania's public enterprise sector became more
pronounced during the 1970s as Government's fiscal position deteriorated.
Attempts at reform started in 1978: with financing from IDA's First Technical
Assistance Project (para 1.32), a comprehensive public enterprise sector
report was prepared in 1978 and rehabilitation programs for a number of
enterprises were drafted in 1979. This report recommended action on pricing
policies, personnel reductions, managerial improvements and equipment
maintenance.   During the following years the Government made an extensive
review of the measures proposed and took action on prices and, in some
cases, carried out managerial improvements.    However,  the lack of
comprehensive measures and the deepening of the problems resulted in little
significant improvement in the 1978-82 period.   Nevertheless, Government's
awareness of the magnitude of the problems and the need for stronger action
was substantially increased.
1.   Interministerial Committee
1.23      In December 1982, the Government established a temporary high level
Interministerial Committee with a technical secretariat in the Ministry of
Plan to prepare a comprehensive but realistic medium-term rehabilitation
program for the public enterprise sector, focussing mainly on financial
performance, institutional problems and economic impact of public
enterprises.
1.24      By the end of September 1983, the Interministerial Committee
submitted its report to the Government for consideration. Although the
report suffered from a weak data base and falls short of proposing a detailed
rehabilitation strategy, it was incisive in diagnosing the sector's key
problems and in highlighting the essential preconditions of a serious effort
to overcome the sector's problems.   The report  stressed that,  as
preconditions for improving -public enterprise performance, Government would
have to make a profound change in policies and develop more streamlined ways
of dealing with enterprises. A clear statement of enterprise objectives was
essential, payment for goods and services within the public sector had to be
enforced, and the relative responsibilities and duties of the enterprise and



- 8 -
the Government had to be spelled out through a program contract between
Government and each enterprise.
1.25      More specifically, the report outlined the following as key
problems.
(a)  On the Government side, there was:  (i) interference by Government
in the day-to-day management of the enterprises (pressure for
recruitment, too frequent demotion of managers); (ii) lack of
exercise of responsibility of Government appointees on the boards
of parapublic enterprises; (iii) lack of monitoring in relation to
Government objectives; (iv) lack of financial controls and audits;
(v) delays in payments of Government bills; and (iv) late and
poorly planned increases in prices and utility tariffs.
(b)  On the enterprise side, there was:  (i) weakness of management and
personnel and lack of motivation at all levels; (ii) absence of
qualified financial directors and accountants, producing delays in
accounting, inadequate billing and collection procedures and lack
of internal control; (iii) lack of maintenance and aging or
deterioration of equipment; and (iv) lack of training policies.
2.   Reform Measures
1.26      Having endorsed the conclusion of these studies, the Government
proceeded with the formulation of specific measures to reform the public
enterprise sector. The Interministerial Committee next prepared a statement
of emergency measures required to rehabilitate the sector. These measures
were subsequently reviewed and approved by full cabinet in November 1983.
Constituting the cornerstone of Government's reform strategy, the measures
consist of twelve separate decisions, covering among other things settlement
of government arrears, prompt payment by government, and reclassification and
restructuring of the sector.  These twelve points are listed in Annex 1-1.
3.   Present Status and Calendar
1.27      Government has initiated a number of specific steps to implement
the twelve measures and related legal reforms that make up its reform
program. Not all measures are under way, in part, due to the lack of
follow-up by technical ministries which are responsible for certain measures
and, in part, due to the need for more deliberation and study. In some
cases, more ambitious targets for completion than should have reasonably been
expected were established and Government has slipped in achieving the
intended reforms. A revised plan and timetable, with specific dates, for the
implementation of Government's reform measures, as shown in Annex 1-2. was
reviewed and agreed during negotiations (para 6.01(a)).
1.28      Considerable progress has, nevertheless, been made in 1984,
particularly regarding those priority measures that were highlighted by the
appraisal mission to Government and considered of critical importance. The
first efforts have thus focussed on: (a) settling arrears and cross-debts



-9-
between enterprises and Government; (b) reclassifying enterprises and
restructuring the sector; and (c) establishing realistic budgets for
consumption of goods and services by Government.
1.29      As of early 1985, Government had taken the following actions:
(a)  Settlement of Interlocking Debts.  The cross-debts of fifteen major
public enterprises as of end-1983 had been reviewed and most were
quickly settled through compensation and/or agreement on the
appropriate repayment terms. However, several major cases--OPT,
EMN and SONELEC as well as SMCPP and SOCIGfl4--required considerable
negotiation between the concerned enterprises and Government. In
the first case, Government owed OPT some UN 240 millicn (US$3.0
million) while in the other two cases, the net balances owed by EMN
and SONELEC were about UM 46 million (US$0.6 million) and UM 244
million (US$3.0 million) respectively. After negotiation, these
amounts were reduced to UM 44 million, UK 4 million, and UM 118
million, respectively for OPT, EMN and SONELEC and agreements,
satisfactory to IDA, have been reached to settle these amounts.
(b) Reclassification and Sector Restructuring. Based on proposals
prepared by the Ministry of Plan, Government has approved a plan to
reclassify and restructure 30 EPIC and SEMs, which is summarized in
Annex 1-3. Three enterprises are to be liquidated, four are to be
sold in part to private investors (that is, converted to mixed
enterprises), five are to have their scope of operations reduced by
dropping particular activities, allowing private companies to
assume certain functions, four are to be converted to EPAPs, more
in keeping with the non-commercial nature of their operations, and
two others are to be subject to further study.  The remaining (12)
are to stay as they are but in some cases rehabilitated. While
some of these decisions may not be optimal and the chances of
finding private partners in some cases slim, they move in an
appropriate direction. As part of the project, technical support
will be provided to implement those decisions, reassess their
reasonableness in light of progress in restructuring enterprises,
and study other enterprises and sectors, not yet subject to this
same review.  A review of progress to date was made during
negotiations and agreement reached on specific target dates,
enterprise by enterprise, for achieving the restructuring to be
reviewed periodically with IDA (para 6.01(b)).
(c) Realistic Budget Allocations. Starting in its 1984 budget,
Government established realistic budget estimates for the
consumption of water and electricity (SONELEC) by central
government services. However, this exercise also needed to be
undertaken for autonomous government services and for postal,
telephone and telex services (OPT).  For 1985, Government has thus
agreed to include in its 1985 budget (through supplementary
estimates if necessary) adequate provision for payment by all
public sector consumers of services provided by SONELEC and OPT, as
well as catch up for any arrears and the specific settlement of



- 10 -
amounts due to OPT. A condition to this effect was agreed during
negotiations as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit
(para 6.02(a)).
1.30      In addition, Government created a central unit ("Cellule de
Redressement du Secteur Parapublic" - CRSP), acceptable to IDA, within the
Ministry of Plan, to monitor and coordinate the overall rehabilitation
effort. A new law governing public enterprises (para 1.14), approved in
early 1984 and generally acceptable to IDA, embodies various elements of the
reform package, notably changes to the appointment of chief financial
officers and the requirement for medium-term plans and program contracts.
Other measures included as part of the sector reform program are to be
implemented under the proposed project (revision of enterprise salary policy
and structures and preparation of new budget procedures) and as part of the
rehabilitation of key public enterprises (staff reductions, strengthened
billing and collection procedures, accounting training, and tariff
adjustments).
I.   IDA's Role
1.31      The proposed project represents IDA's first participation in water
supply, power, and telecommunications and its second in the port sector in
Mauritania. It is also the first substantive support for the rationalization
of the public enterprise sector, as a whole, in Mauritania. The high
priority giver, by Government to this project, as evident in the initiatives
that have already been taken to date, is a reflection of Government's strong
commitment to undertake a major reform of the public enterprise sector and to
institute sound management principles and concepts in those enterprises
remaining in the sector.
1.   Past Involvement
1.32      Studies carried out under two IDA-financed Technical Assistance
Projects have laid the basis for the proposed project. IDA's dialogue with
Government on public enterprise sector grew out of the first Technical
Assistance project (Cr. 665-M&U) approved in 1976, the main element of which
consisted of financing a five-person team of resident advisers in the
Ministry of Plan to assist in overall economic planning, and preparation and
implementation of sectoral programs and projects. The team quickly turned
its attention to the problems of the parastatal sector and, with the help of
short term consultants, carried out a review of the sector, evaluated the
problems of the major public agencies and parapublic enterprises, and
submitted a report to the Government at the end of 1978. At the request of
the Government in mid-1979, it prepared rehabilitation programs for about 20
key public enterprises. Audits of these enterprises were also financed under
the project. At the end of 1979, the team presented its findings and
recommendations to the Government which took certain follow-up action (para
1.22).
1.33      The work started under the first Technical Assistance Project has
been continued under the second Technical Assistance project (Cr. 1292-MAU)
approved in 1982. In addition to the involvement of two resident specialists



- 11 -
during project preparation, consultants were hired to carry out in-depth
diagnostic reviews and to prepare draft rehabilitation plans for SONELEC, EMN
and OPT. In the case of OPT, the preparation benefited from a memorandum on
the Post and Telecommunications prepared by IDA (May 1983). Following review
of the various studies by Government and IDA, the project was appraised in
October-November 1983. The resident representative of the French Central
Agency for Economique Cooperation ("Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique" - CCCE) participated in the mission and the CCCE's report on
SONELEC was prepared, following a visit by a CCCE mission, in December 1983.
A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance of US$1 million to finance
continued preparation efforts was approved in May 1984. These funds are
being used to finalize bidding documents, recruit and engage technical
advisors, repair and equip office space, and provide vehicles, small
equipment and a stock of spare parts necessary to begin project
implementation (para 3.25).
2.   Approach
1.34      Following Government's 1982 study of the sector (para 1.23), IDA
agreed to consider a two-phase approach to support the implementation of a
public enterprise sector reform program. Once the Government had decided on
the key objectives and elements of a reform program and started implementing
it, IDA would consider financing a first project, the subject of this report,
that would prepare a longer term strategy and meet the emergency needs of
those enterprises that Government considered of particular priority to avoid
the collapse of basic services (SONELEC and EHN). A second possible project
could continue supporting essential institutional and policy reforms
affecting all enterprises and directly help in the rehabilitation of other
enterprises.
1.35       In pursuing this approach, IDA's main role will be to assist
Government in articulating an appropriate medium-term plan for the sector and
in gradually implementing that plan, starting with a few select enterprises
and eventually expanding the program to others. An important facet of this
support will be to demonstrate the links between micro- and macro-level
actions, so that the rehabilitation of physical plant and equipment does not
overshadow institutional and legal issues addressed at the sectoral level.
Thus, the assistance provided under the project includes technical assistance
and studies aimed at the sector's restructuring, regulatory framework,
financial management and information systems, in addition to direct support
to three priority enterprises-SONELEC, EMN, and OPT.  As one of the
principal financiers, IDA has also taken a lead role in coordinating support
to the sector and expects to collaborate closely with the European
Development Fund (EDF), CCCE, and FAC ("Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation") who
have already agreed to co-finance the project. Continued efforts are being
made to attract other donor support for this and the subsequent phase of the
rehabilitation program.
1.36      This phased approach offers considerable opportunity for IDA to
shape its assistance to meet the needs of Mauritania's rehabilitation
program. During the first project, full investigation and study can be made



- 12 -
of the key institutional and human resource issues facing public enterprises.
while tackling certain chronic problems (notably the accumulation of arrears)
and providing emergency rehabilitation to major public services.  As a
learning experience for both IDA and the Government, this first project can
provide the basis for enhancing IDA's understanding of the sector and for
developing the local institutional capability to manage the rehabilitation
process.
II. THE ENTERPRISES
A.   Introduction
2.01      In its request to IDA for assistance, Government identified three
enterprises--SONELEC, EMN and OPT--as first priorities in its rehabilitation
effort. Details of the rehabilitation needs of each of these enterprises had
been identified as part of diagnostic studies undertaken by external
consultants financed by the Second Technical Assistance Project (Cr.
1292-MAU).  These studies laid the basis for preparing the physical
rehabilitation plans for the enterprises, incorporating technical assistance
as warranted. Following the approach to Government's rehabilitation program,
SONELEC and EMN were selected as justifying emergency rehabilitation under
the first project in order to keep these essential public services from
potential collapse while OPT will receive needed technical assistance to
establish basic systems and procedures in financial management and data
processing and to prepare a more comprehensive rehabilitation plan.
2.02      Details of each enterprise are provided in separate appendices kept
on the Project file. A general description of each enterprise follows.
B.   SONELEC
2.03      Created in 1975, as a result of the nationalization of its
French-owned predecessor, MAURELEC, SONELEC provides water and electricity
services to the country's main urban centers. Water service is provided in
ten centers, electricity in seven, and sewerage in three centers. The two
largest cities, Nouakchott (400,000 inhabitants) and Nouadhibou (40,000
inhabitants), account for the bulk of SONELEC's operations.
2.04      Institutional Set-up.  As an EPIC, SONELEC falls under the
technical supervision of the Ministry of Hydraulics, Energy and Mines, and is
subject to typical public enterprise controls.  Its Board of Directors,
consisting of 17 government appointed members, represents mainly Government
ministries. A large number of decrees and regulations govern SONELEC's
operations; however, many of these are outdated, inconsistent, and
contradictory. As part of the project, these laws will be reviewed and
revised in agreement with IDA. Furthermore, clarification of the respective
obligations and responsibilities of SONELEC and Government will be achieved
through the preparation of a program contract acceptable to IDA.



- 13 -
2.05      Organization and Management.  Day-to-day management is vested in
SONELEC's Director General. With a total staff of about 600, there are about
30 middle-level managers. The current organization structure, however, does
not provide sufficient delegation of responsibility to second-level managers
nor does it provide sufficient separation of responsibility.  A new
organization structure, acceptable to IDA, will be implemented as part of the
action plan to be carried out by SONELEC under the project (para 3.17). The
new structure should ease the burden on senior management and highten the
separation of functional responsibility between water and electricy
operations.
2.06      Level of Operations.  In 1982, SONELEC's total revenues amounted to
about UM 1.1 billion (US$13.8 million), representing sales of about 65 GWH of
electricity and 5.8 million m3 of water.  In terms of production, about 90%
of the total was accounted for by Nouakchott and Nouadhibou. In Nouakchott,
there are 6,800 house connections for water and 6,700 for electricity,
yielding connection rates of about 10%. In Nouadhibou, connection rates are
much higher at about 40%, with 2,900 water connections and 3,300 electricity
connections.
2.07      Existing Facilities.  SONELEC's water and electricity facilities
are badly in need of repair, upgrading or replacement, the result of poor
planning, lack of spare parts and regular maintenance, and obsolesence.
Effective capacity is far below installed capacity (no more than 50% for both
water and electricity) and technical efficiency is very low. Most critical
is the water supply to Nouakchott which risks total rupture of service.
Electricity blackouts have been common, resulting in an increasing amount of
self-production. Distribution networks for both water and electricity supply
fall short of potential demand, especially in Nouakchott. Meters are largely
defective and need to be repaired or replaced. New electricity generating
facilities and an expanded distribution network are to be built by about
1987. Additional investment will also be required for water supply in the
1990s as Nouakchott's nearest water source is depleted.
2.08      Systems and Procedures.  On the technical side, there is a complete
absence of systems documentation, operating manuals and written procedures.
On the administrative side, accounting policies and systems are inadequate
and outdated, billing and collection procedures weak and error prone, and
internal controls over stocks, treasury, and fixed assets insufficient to
provide adequate managerial control. The level of staff skills is generally
low and needs to be upgraded through training programs and new recruitment.
2.09      Financial Performance.   In light of the above technical and
institutional deficiencies, it is not surprising that SONELEC's past
financial  performance  has  been  poor.   Underreporting  of  expenses,
particularly depreciation, interest and taxes, has most likely resulted in an
cverstazement of SONELEC's profitability. The most severe problems exist in
recovery of current accounts, with receivables currently reaching the
equivalent of one year's sales. Government is estimated to account for about
one-third of these arrears. Poor recovery of client accounts has led to
serious liquidity problems that have resulted in a build-up of accounts



- 14 -
payable, particularly taxes and the service of government guaranteed debt.
SONELEC's accounts, furthermore, have never been subject to external audit.
A summary of SONELEC's financial performance and future prospects is provided
in Annex 2-1.
2.10      Tariffs.  Although SONELEC's tariffs are relatively high compared
to other West African countries, they have not been sufficient for SONELEC to
operate profitably, service its debts and contribute a reasonable share to
new investments. Moreover, because of the serious technical difficulties
faced by SONELEC (which will be addressed as part of this project), tariffs
higher than long-run marginal costs may be necessary, for electricity
services in particular, until SONELEC's operations are improved and its
facilities renewed. Revisions to the present tariff structure are therefore
warranted.  However,  in view of the limitations to SONELEC's existing
accounting systems, it is not presently possible to base the needed revisions
on and analysis of costs, broken down separately by electricity and water and
by type of consumer and location.  Nor is it possible for the immediate
future to base tariffs on long-term marginal costs since the prerequisite
data and investment plans are not available.  A tariff study wi'l  be
undertaken as part of the project to assess direct operating costs by center
and to establish an acceptable method for the allocation of costs separately
for electricity and water, and including a provision for an appropriate
sewerage surcharge, once SONELEC's accounting systems have been improved. In
the meantime, SONELEC has agreed to measures to reduce its operating costs
which will improve its financial position considerably, and to increase its
average tariffs, in light of inflation and foreign exchange fluctuations, as
a condition of effectiveness (para 6.02 (b)). Projections, prepared by the
appraisal mission, indicate that increases in average tariffs in 1985 to
compensate for inflation and the effects of devaluation (estimated at about
16%), combined with improvements in SONELEC's operating efficiency, will be
sufficient to put SONELEC into a better liquidity position in 1985 so that it
can cover operating costs and service debts.  Subsequent increases, to be
reviewed and approved by IDA, will be required for SONELEC to operate as a
financially viable enterprise (paras 6.02(c).  SONELEC expects to keep its
current investment plans, in light of the financial difficulties, to levels
discussed during negotiations, about UM 4.5 billion between 1985 and 1989.
further agreed to seek prior IDA approval before making investments above
US$500,000 equivalent (para 6.02(c)).
2.11      Rehabilitation Plans.  A broad rehabilitation program has been
devised for SONELEC to tackle the most urgent technical, organizational and
financial problems.  Technical assistance, staff training, equipment and
physical works, reorganization and institutional reforms will be undertaken.
Emphasis has been placed in SONELEC's action plan, as summarized in Annex
2-2, to:
(a) restore technical efficiency;
(b) improve client management and reduce account receivables;



- 15 -
(c) train staff and develop basic systems and procedures;
(d) clarify SONELEC's legal context and its relationships with
government;
(e) improve accounting systems and develop sound financial and tariff
policies.
C.   EMN
2.12      EMN is responsible for the operation of the country's principal
commercial port serving Nouakchott and much of the interior. It accounts for
about 80% of general cargo traffic, the only other port being the port of
Nouadhibou, principally for fishing.
2.13      Institutional Framework.  Created in 1975, EMN operates under the
supervision of the Ministry of Equipment. As an EPIC, EMN has its own Board
of Directors and is subject to various government controls and regulations
that can limit management's autonomy and authority. Such controls and other
aspects of EMN's relationship with Government will be clarified as part of
its program contract. In addition, EMN's responsibility for the operation of
a new deep-water port, being built 6 km away from the present port as a
turn-key project, should be properly established prior to the expected
completion of that port in 1987. This port is being constructed and financed
with the assistance of the People's Republic of China, on concessional terms,
in order to provide Nouakchott with modern port facilities capable of
handling large ships (para 2.17).
2.14      Organization and Management.  EMN has been reorganized and is
managed by a Director General with four department heads reporting to him.
This new organization, acceptable to IDA, rectifies a major deficiency in
EMN's organization by creating a separate department for a Port Commander.
The four senior managers have been appointed and will act as counterparts to
technical specialists engaged under the project (para 3.19).
2.15      Overstaffing was a serious problem limiting EMN's possibilities for
financial self-sufficiency. However, EMN's management has recently reduced
total employment from close to 400 to just over 300 and intends to reduce
employment to about 250 by end 1985.    In addition, steps are required to
harmonize working hours, eliminate unnecessary overtime, and improve
productivity. A specific action plan for targetted productivity improvements
will be undertaken as part of the proposed project (para 6.01(q)).
2.16      Level of Operations.   The cargo handled by EMN has shown
significant fluctuations in the past years, reflecting Mauritania's economic
difficulties, drought, and diversion of traffic to Dakar. Reaching a peak of
325,000 tons in 1982, traffic fell to about 300,000 in 1983 but increased to
380,000 in 1984, mainly due to increased import of foodstuffs. High levels
of traffic are expect to continue at least through 1985 but traffic could
fall in subsequent years if the flow of food aid declines.  In non-food
categories, only modest growth in traffic is forecast due to the slow growth
anticipated for the economy over the medium term.



- 16 -
2.17      Existing Facilities.  The present facilities operated by EMN
consist of an unprotected berth that can handle only small ships (5,000 draft
weight tonnage or less). Larger ships must be lightered in open roadstead
using barges which results in double handling of cargo and make} operations
difficult during rough seas. Much of EMN's equipment (barges, tugs, cranes,
forklifts, etc.) is not in working order, the result of misuse and inadequate
maintenance.  Protective dolphins on the berth to buffer ship impact are
missing. Steel piles supporting the berth have never been maintained and are
subject to corrosion so that the entire berth risks collapse. EON's present
facilities must last until completion of the new port expected in 1987, when
all port operations will be transferred to that location (except bulk cement
handling and minor traffic to avoid congestion).
2.18      Systems and Procedures.   Internal controls,  documented work
methods, system and procedures, technical, operational and financial records
and information processing capabilities are weak, resulting in poor
management controls, low productivity and high incidences of cargo loss and
damage. Accounting is particularly weak, with EMS's accounts having never
been subject to external audit. Improvements are also necessary in handling
stocks, inventory management, billings and client accounts.
2.19      Financial Performance.  EMN has shown a profit only once in the
past five years.  Total revenues, which reached UM 230 million (US$2.9
million) in 1982 were insufficient to cover operating expenses (before
interest). A loss of over UM 130 million (US$1.6 million) was experienced in
1983. These figures are also likely to understate expenses, resulting in an
overstatement of EMN's performance. Even though EMN does not suffer from
excessively high accounts receivable, because of poor profitability, its
liquidity position is tight and it has not serviced its external debts
(government-guaranteed) or domestic debts since 1979.  EMN owed Government
about UM 46 million (US$0.6 million) in taxes and penalties on late payment
of taxes which it would have had great difficulty paying.  However,
Government has agreed to waive the penalties which reduces the amount due to
UM 4 million to be paid in 1985.  In addition, agreement was reached at
negotiations to obtain prior IDA approval for any new investments over
US$250,000 (para 6.02(d)).  A summarv of EMN's past financial performance and
future prospects is presented in Annex 2-3.
2.20      Tariffs.  Resolving the question of tariffs is critical to EMN's
financial viability. Its average tariffs had been low relative to comparable
po-ts in the region but were recently raised by 25% across-the-board.
Various other port charges were also raised at the same time and new charges
added. It was agreed during negotiations that EMN would increase tariffs as
necessary in order to achieve an operating ratio of 65% starting in 1986.
Another important aspect is the eventual need to eliminate the subsidy for
imported cereals inherent ill the present tariff structure. This structure,
which places more emphasis on the type of cargo rather than the means of
offloading, implicitly entails a subsidy cf as much as four-fold over the
actual cost of such operations since cereals (rice particularly) are most
frequently offloaded using barges. A new tariff structure, addressing this
problem, is to be prepared as part of the study of the financial implications
of the new port and would be implemented once the new port is in operation
(para 3.21).



- 17 -
2.21      Rehabilitation Plans.  The detailed rehabilitation program for EMN,
based on the diagnostic study carried out as part of project preparation,
focuses on replacing and repairing basic equipment and facilities necessary
for the continued operation of this port while strengthening EMN's
organization to increase its effectiveness and ability to operate port
facilities efficiently. Only those items vital for the next few years or
transferable to the new port are to be included. Considerable attention will
be placed, through staff training and technical assistance, on improving
internal management controls, organization, work methods and basic financial
and accounting systems. A summary of EMN's action plan is provided in Annex
2-4.
D.   OPT
2.22      OPT, the third enterprise included in this first project is
responsible for all international and domestic postal and telecommunication
services and for the provision of postal financial services. Postal services
are generally available in major centers, while telecommunication services
are mostly concentrated in Nouakchott and Nouadhibou.
2.23      Institutional Set-up.  Like SONELEC and EMN, OPT is classified as
an EPIC, and subject to standard Government regulations. Created in 1961, it
reports to the Hinistry of Information, Posts and Telecommunications and has
a Board of Directors comprised of various Govenment, labor, and user
representatives. In terms of its legal status, OPT's position is relatively
clear, with the exception of the status of its training school and the
National Savings Bank, which OPT now manages. Agreement to clarify OPT's
responsibility and the status of these two entities by March 31, 1986, was
obtained during negotiations (para 6.02(d)).
2.24      Organization and Management.  OPT's present organization structure
centralizes authority in Nouakchott on the Director General and does not
provide a clear separation between postal and telecommunication services. As
a starting point in improving this situation, greater separation between
these two systems should be achieved by developing financial and management
reporting systems that make the appropriate distinctions. In the long term,
a more comprehensive reorganization should be considered under OPT's medium
term rehabilitation plan.
2.25      Services and Recent Investments.  OPT's services are concentrated
in the urban centers, principally Nouakchott and Nouadhibou. General service
utilization is low, postal service unreliable, particularly in remote areas,
and telecommunication services require improvements, especially for long
distance links, expansion of domestic service, and rehabilitation of
facilities in major towns. OPT has recently started to upgrade long distance
and international service using satellite facilities.  However, these
investments together (one Standard A earth station and two Standard B earth
stations) are likely to strain OPT's financial position. The purchase of the
Standard A earth station, in particular, was not justified in technical and
economic terms. This latter investment was financed by French commercial and
official sources of funds, at a blend of concessional and export credit
conditions.



- 18 -
2.26      Accounting and Financial Management.  Under these circumstances,
sound accounting practices and policies, proper financial controls and
well-functioning systems for client billing and collections are especially
important. OPT must be in a position to properly analyze its financial
situation by activity, assess the impact of future investments on its
operations, and maximize its existing possibilities for cash generation.
However, in light of the deficiencies in its present accounting system and
data processing facilities, OPT is not fully equipped to exercise such
control.  The accumulation of client arrears, from both GovernmenTt and
private sector clients, is a particular problem area that needs to be
addressed through strict enforcement of collection procedures, especially for
public sector clients. Agreement was reached at negotiations that Government
will permit OPT to enforce strictly its collection procedures (para 6.02(e)).
An overview of OPT's past financial performance is presented in Annex 2-5.
2.27      Rehabilitation Plans.  The first priority in strengthening OPT's
management processes is to provide the necessary technical assistance and
basic equipment to develop new accounting and financial management systems
responding to the above needs. Computer technology should be utilized to
enhance OPT's processing capabilities, particularly for billing and other
accounting applications, and the general availability of management
information.   For OPT  to prepare itself  for a more comprehensive
rehabilitation effort, assistance will also be provided to develop a
medium-term rehabilitation plan, focussing on the management and organization
requireme-ts. In addition, its short-term rehabilitation efforts will be
reviewed by IDA and a plan for its followup, acceptable to IDA, would be
prepared by June 30, 1985.  Agreement was also reached at negotiations for
IDA to concur with any new investment over US$500,000 (para 6.01(f)).  A
mummary of OPT's action plan under the project is presented in Annex 2-6.
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives
3.01      The proposed project would assist Government in the first phase of
its public enterprise sector reform program. Consistent with IDA's longer
term objectives of encouraging economic reform, this project will make a
significant contribution to tackling the financial and economic problems
apparent in the public enterprise sector. More specifically, the project is
designed, as a first phase, to:
(a) elaborate specific policies and prepare a medium-term
rehabilitation strategy for the sector;
(b)  restructure the sector by reclassifying, closing
down, privatizing, and/or reorganizing enterprises
as appropriate;
(c)  redefine government enterprise relations by instituting



- 19 -
a process of program contracts;
(d)  reform certain aspects of the legal, regulatory and
institutional framework to reduce ambiguity, clarify
roles and responsibilities, and encourap- greater
delegation and enterprise autonomy;
(e) provide emergency financing for two major
enterprises and contribute to the institutional
strengthening of a third; and
(f) prepare the medium-term rehabilitation programs
for those enterprises, as well as initiate the
process for several others.
B.   Descriptior.
3.02      The project will consist of four major components, one for
management of the sector reform process and one each for the three
enterprises included in the project. The key features of these components
are described below:
1. Sector Reform
3.03      This component aims at assisting Government implement the first
phase of its sector reform program by developing appropriate sector policies,
coordinating the sector restructuring process, and strengthening the overall
institutional  context  in which  public  enterprises  operate.   More
specifically, it comprises the following aspects.
3.04      Technical Assistance and Training.  Technical assistance will be
provided to the newly created Parapublic Rehabilitation Unit ('tCellule de
Redressement du Secteur Parapublic" - CRSP) in the Ministry of Plan to assist
its management in developing public enterprise policy, coordinating
rehabilitation efforts, sector restructuring and institutional reforms, and
monitoring sector performance. It includes a long-term adviser to the CRSP
(36 person-montns) and short-term advisers for coordinating enterprise
rehabilitation (9 person-months). CRSP's terms of reference are provided in
Annex 3-1. In addition, training for selected staff in CRSP at the Ministry
of Plan and DTAF at the Ministry of Finance will be provided in information
systems, public sector management, finance and other areas to be identified.
A training program, to be prepared with IDA's assistance, will be reviewed
and approved by June 30, 1985 (para 6.01(g)).
3.05      Studies and Institutional Reform.  The project includes the
financing of studies (37 person-months) of basic issues facing the public
enterprise sector (salary policy and structure, general training needs,
monitoring systems, and budgetary systems) which will lead to the
recommendation and/or development of policies and systems to overcome the
constraints in those areas. Draft terms of reference for these studies are
prepared and have been reviewed by IDA.



- 20 -
3.06      In addition, the project includes assistance (36 person-months) to
Government  in  implementing  its  reform measures,  specifically  (a)
restructuring the sector (advice on privatization and liquidations) and
developing strategies for extending its restructuring to other sectors
(notably EPAPs, fishing and banking) and to other enterprises (insurance
company and livestock marketing) that were not covered in Government's recent
restructuring of the sector; (b) establishing realistic budget allocations
and keeping current on payments to enterprises; and (c) settling interlocking
debts between government and enterprises. These steps will be undertaken in
accordance with the sector reform action plan as agreed with IDA, that
includes joint review and monitoring every six months.  CRSP will be
responsible for coordinating and monitoring the plan's implementation.
3.07      Funds are also allocated for short-term advice (3 person-months) to
the Ministry of Plan and enterprises in preparing program contracts as a
means of clarifying and establishing a clear relationship between Government
and the enterprises.  This process, described in Annex 3-2, will involve the
enterprises directly with their supervising ministries. CRSP's role is to
elaborate policies and procedures for developing the contracts and to monitor
progress in resolving issues incorporated in the contracts.  Completed
contracts for EMN and SONELEC, which will be reviewed and approved by IDA,
are to be completed by end December 1985 (para 6.01(h)).
3.08      Other institutional reforms (revision of appropriate laws, decrees,
regulations) are required, either for specific enterprises or for refinement
of laws that apply to the sector as a whole. Ad hoc assistance (3
person-months) will be available under the project to assist Goverrmeent, as
needed, to put those reforms into effect. Specific requirements included in
the enterprise action plans have already been identified for EMN, SONELEC,
and OFT, such as SONELEC's rights and obligations, EMN's responsibility for
the new port, and OPT's responsibility for the National Savings Bank.
3.09      All studies and ad hoc assignments shall be undertaken in
accordance with terms of reference, prepared by CRSP with external
assistance, by consultants under terms and conditions, acceptable to the IDA.
A brief description of these studies and assignments is provided in Annex
3-3. Agreement was reached during negotiations that Government will review
the conclusions of these studies with IDA and implement those agreed
recommendations (para 6.02(i)).
3.10      External Audits.  As a key means of identifying weaknesses in
internal control systems and verifying the financial positions of the three
participating enterprises, external audits will be undertaken of their
accounts starting with FY85. CRSP's accounts will also be audited. These
audits will be submitted six months after the close of the fiscal year (para
6.01(j)).  The cost of enterprise audits will be shared by IDA, the
enterprises and Government. CRSP will assist the enterprises in preparing
terms of reference and selecting the auditors and will also review the audit
conclusions.



- 21 -
3.11      Development of Medium-Term Rehabilitation Program.  In order to
develop the next phase of Government's rehabilitation program, the component
provides CRSP with short-term technical assistance to prepare proposals for
that  second phase.   This will include diagnostic studies of other
enterprises, refinement of plans for the next phase of rehabilitation for
SONELEC, EMN and OPT as needed, and elaboration of further sectoral reforms
and policies. A total of 45 person-months of such service has been allocated
for these activities. Work in preparing the second phase, however, is
contingent on progress, satisfactory to IDA, being made in implementation of
Government's reform measures  (para 6.04).  Progress will be reviewed
periodically on those activities (para 3.06) and an assessment made on the
basis of the third annual project review (para 4.19).
3.12      Office Equipment and Operating Expenses.  The newly created CRSP
within the Ministry of Plan will have its office space upgraded and will be
equipped with appropriate office furniture, equipment, materials and
vehicles. In addition, there is provision for operating expenses (gasoline,
maintenance, travel, etc.) and salaries of CRSP's staff, starting out with
four professionals, two administrative staff and five support staff and later
expanding as required up to a maximum of 18 staff members. Such expenses
will be cost-shared by Government and IDA, with Government's contribution
starting in 1985 (para 6.02(a)).  CRSP staff will either be paid on
short-term contract as locally engaged consultants or as full time civil
servants. In the former case, IDA will finance 1OOZ of these costs, while in
the latter case, Government will pay fully the associated salaries and
benefits.
2. Emergency Support for SONELEC
3.13      This component provides support to SONELEC to purchase emergency
spare parts and equipment, effect priority rehabilitation of existing
facilities, undertake technical studies of future rehabilitation needs, staff
training and technical assistance to strengthen the organization and manage
the rehabilitation process. Four sub-components of the physical works for
water supply and electricity services in both Nouakchott and Nouadhibou were
prepared.
3.14      Details of the assistance for SONELEC under the project are in the
Project file (Item 1, Appendix 1).  A brief description of the component
follows, with additional information provided in Annex 3-4.
3.15      Technical Assistance and Training.  A multi-disciplinary technical
assistance team, comprising seven experts in various engineering and
administrative areas, will provide advice and on-the-job training to SONELEC
staff. They will be responsible for preparing details of the planned
physical rehabilitation works, developing new systems and procedures,
establishing internal controls, assessing organization and staffing needs,
and assisting management in preparing its program contract with Government.
It is expected that the technical assistance team will reside in Nouakchott
for a two-year period, complemented with support from their headquarter
offices.  Selected on the basis of competitive bidding, a joint venture
between "Electricite de France" and "Compagnie GUn6rale des Eaux" has been



- 22 -
awarded this contract under a twinning arrangement. This team has been
reinforced with three locally recruited advisors (from SNIM and a local bank)
and three FAC-financed advisors.  Funds are also available to finance
additional specialized short-term assistance for preparation of tender
documents, engineering studies and a study of SONELEC's tariff structure and
financial objectives. Additional training will be provided to selected staff
in operating entities in the region and abroad, based on a training program
to be approved by IDA by August 31, 1985 (para 6.01(k)).
3.16      Physical  Works  and  Equipment.   Four  separate  physical
sub-components have been identified for rehabilitation under this
component--water services in Nouakchott and Nouadhibou and electricity
service in Nouakchott and Nouadhibou. Based on identified needs, these four
sub-components entail urgently required purchase of spare parts and
equipment, meters and house connections, vehicles, and maintenance equipment,
plus upgrading of physical connections, distribution networks and generating
facilities to restore original capacity. In the case of Nouadhibou's water
system, the sub-component also includes replacement of the main transmission
pipeline.
3.17      Organizational Improvements.  This component entails a number of
organizational and institutional improvements. More specifically, SONELEC
will undertake an action plan to improve recovery of client accounts, reduce
arrears and improve meter reading and billing procedures and controls;
SONELEC will also restructure its organization to provide greater clarity of
responsibility and accountability, as a condition of credit effectiveness
(para. 6.02(c)). It will furthermore develop appropriate financial systems,
reform its legal framework, reduce redundant labor, and ensure that it has
trained staff to fill key management posts, undertake physical works, manage
its sewerage operations and improve client management. On the financial
side, besides settling its interlocking debts with Goverment, it will adopt
sound financial policies and tariff structures designed to restore its
financial self-sufficiency.  Approval of a tariff increase, acceptable to
IDA, to compensate for increased costs in 1985 (due to inflation and foreign
exchange fluctuations) is a condition of effectiveness (para 6.02(b)).
Agreement on the implementation of these measures as part of its action plan
was obtained during negotiations (para 6.01(k),(l),&m) and (n)).
3. Emergency Support for EMN
3.18      Project assistance for EMN is provided for purchase of spare parts
and replacement equipment, undertaking vital physical rehabilitation of
existing facilities, technical, financial and economic studies, providing
staff training, and technical assistance in order to strengthen the
institution and to plan subsequent phases of rehabilitation. Details of this
component are in the Project File (Item 1, Appendix 2) and summarized below.
Annex 3-5 contains additional information on this component.



- 23 -
3.19      Technical Assistance and Training.  EMN will receive technical
assistance in the general areas of administration, finance and accounting,
maintenance and port operations.  It is anticipated that four experts in
these areas will be recruited, each for about a two-year period, in order to
supervise rehabilitation works, establish proper work methods and procedures,
develop new accounting and management information systems, provide on-the-job
training to EMN staff and assist management in preparing its program contract
with Government. It was agreed that these advisors, selected in accordance
with terms of reference acceptable to IDA, will have been appointed and
at least three taken up their positions as a condition of credit
effectiveness (para 6.02(d)).  Short-term advisors are also included to
undertake identified engineering, economic and technical studies, the
conclusions of which are to be reviewed by IDA (para 6.01(p)). Additional
staff training will be provided to EMN's senior management and to technical
staff, in accordance with a training program to be prepared by June 30, 1985,
acceptable to IDA (para 6.02(o)).
3.20      Physical Works and Equipment.  Considering that EMN will operate
the existing port until 1987, when the new port is expected to be completed,
the physical rehabilitation envisaged under this component includes only
basic repairs to vital infrastructure to prevent its collapse. Equipment
(vehicles, cranes, tractors, etc.) plus spares and tools will also be
provided; however, this equipment will, in large part, be transfered to the
new port.
3.21      Organizational  Improvements.   A  restructuring  of  EMN's
organization, appointment of four new senior managers, limits on staff to no
more than about 250, changes to working hours and elimination of excessive
overtime are all part of the measures included in EMN's action plan under
this component (para 6.02(q)). As part of this plan, EMN will also carry out
a program of productivity improvement, meeting specific agreed targets, and
develop new accounting system and attendant management information systems
according to an agreed timetable. To ensure the orderly and well-conceived
transfer of the new port's assets and operations to EMN and of the cargo
handling and workshop equipment purchased under the project to the new
operation, a study of the terms and conditions of that transfer and its
financial and operational implications, including impact on EMN's tariff
structure, is to be carried out, with implementation of that study's
recommendation, as reviewed and agreed by IDA, to follow no later than six
months after the completion of the new port, about end December 1987 (para
6.01(r)).
4. Technical Assistance to OPT
3.22      OPT will receive support under the project to improve its financial
management and data processing systems and to prepare a detailed medium-term
rehabilitation plan. A major part of these improvements will be to devise
and implement an accouTfting system capable of separating postal and
telecommunication ac'ounts (para 6.01(s)).  New systems will also be
developed for billings, accounts receivables and inventory control.
Assistance includes acquisitiun of computer equipment, software, spares, and
materials, staff training in the data processing and new financial systems,



- 24 -
consulting services to develop and implement these new automated accounting
systems and assistance to advance OPT's rehabilitation plans. OPT will
appropriately staff these systems and train that staff in their operation,
according to a program acceptable to IDA (para 6.01(t)). A medium-term
program will be developed to plan OPT's rehabilitation actions, especially
with regard to organization and maintenance management. It will also examine
OPT's future financial prospects, taking into account the new investments in
long distance telecommunications facilities. The Project File (Item 1,
Appendix 3) contains the details of the support intended for OPT. Additional
background is contained in Annex 3-6.
C.   Project Costs
3.23      The total cost of the project, net of taxes and including the PPF
advance of US$1.0 million, is estimated at about US$29.2 million (UM 2.3
billion equivalent) with a foreign exchange component of about US$25.2
million (UM 2.0 billion). It is Government's intention to exempt investments
under the project from duties and taxes. Project costs, based on consultant
preparation reports and staff estimates adjusted to end-1984, are sumamrized
in the following table. Additional information on the cost of each component
is provided in Annexes 3-7 to 3-10, while the Project File (Item 1) provides
complete details on the three enterprise components.



-25 -
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
UM Million                         US5'000
2 of
Component                                       Local      Foreign      Total     Local      Foreign   Total    Base Cost
1.    SECTOR REFORM
1.1   Teebical Assistance and
training                                   2,40        41.60     44,00         30          520     550       2.43
1.2   Support studies                            4,80        76.80     81.60         60          960    1020       4.51
1.3   Audits                                     3.20        32.80     36.00         40          410     450       1.99
1.4   hedium-ter. program                        3.20        40.00     43.20         40          500     540       2.39
1.5   Equipment                                  0.00         6.80       6.80         0           85      85       0.38
1.6   Operating Costa                           33.60        12.00     45.60        420          150     570       2.52
1.7   Contingencies                             47.20       210.00    257.20        590         2625    3215      14.21
physical                                 0.00         0.80      0.80          e           10      10      0.04
price                                   11.20        50.40     61.60        140          635     775       3.40
Total                                   58.40       261.20    319.60        730         3270    4000      17.66
2.    REHABILITATION OF SONELEC
2.1   Technical Assistance and
training                                  40,00       156.00    196.00        500         1950    2450      10.83
2.2   Water Nouakcbott                          28,00       200.00    228,00        350         2500    2850      12.60
2.3   Electricity Nouakchott                    36.00       184,00    220.00        450         2300    2750      12.16
2.4   Electricity Nonadhibou                    28.00       144.00    172.nO        350         1800    2150       9.50
2.5   Water Nouadhibou                          36.00       340.00    376.00        450         4250    4700      20.78
2.6   Contingencies                            168.00      1024,00   1192,00       2100        12800   14900      65.87
physical                                16,80       102,40    119.20        210         1280    1490      6.59
price                                   36.80      225,60    262,40         460         2820    3280      14.50
Total                                  221.60      1352.00   1573.60       2770        16900   19670     86.96
3.    REHABILITATION OF EMN
3.1   Technical Assistance and
training                                  10.00        83.20     93.20        125         1040    1165      5.15
3.2   Rehabilitation of existing                 3.20        24.00      27.20        40          300     340       1.50
facilities
3.3   Equipment and spars parts                  0.00       154.00    154.00          0         1925    1925       8.51
3.4   Office repair and equipment                1.60         5.20       6,80        20           65      85       0.38
3.5   Contingencies                             14.80       266.40    281.20        185         3330    3515      15.54
physical                                 0,80        8.80       9.60         10          110     120      0.53
price                                    3,20       55.20      58.40         40         690      730      3.23
Total                                   18.80      330.40    349.20         235        4130    4365      19.30
4.    TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR OPT
4.1   Technical Assistance and
training                                   5.20       45.60      50.80         65         570      635      2.81
4.2   Equipment and spare parts                  0.00        14.00      14,00         0          175     175       0.77
4.3   Operating Costs                           14,40         0,00      14,40       180            0     180       0.80
4.4   Contingencies                             19,60        59.60      79,70       245          745     990       4.38
physical                                 0,00         1.60      1.60          0          20       20      0.09
price                                    4.00        12.00     16.00         50          150     200      0.88
Total                                   23.60        73.20     96.80        295          915    1210      5.35
5.    Total base cost                          249.60      1560.00   1809.60       3120        19500   22620    100.00
6.    Physical contingencies                    17.60       113.60    131.20        220         1420    1640       7.25
7.    Price contingencies                       55.20       343.20    398.40        690         4295    4985      22.02
8.    Total contingenices                       72.80       456.80    529.60        910         5715    6625      29.27
9.    TOTAL PROJECT COST                       322.42      2016.80   2339 20       4030        25215   29245    129.27



- 26 -
3.24      The cost of physical works and equipment includes provision for
physical contingencies of between 5% and 10%, which is adequate given the
advanced state of project preparation and the fact that the characteristics of
existing physical systems are known.  No physical contingency has been
included for consultant services, training and related items, except in the
case of SONELEC where it is anticipated that additional requirements for
engineering studies, assistance in preparing tendering documents, ard staff
training will be identified during the course of project implementation. Price
contingencies, which amount to 22% of the total base cost, are estimated at
5% for 1985 and 7.5% for 1986 and 8.0% for each year thereafter for foreign
costs and 10% each year for local costs. Total contingencies amount to about
29% of base project costs.
3.25      A PPF advance of US$1.0 million has been approved to advance
project preparation, specifically to undertake the preparation of tender
documents, equipment specifications, terms of reference and selection of
consultants for later phases of the project. It also includes financing for
technical advisors and emergency spare parts and equipment for SONELEC and
EMN and initial equipment for CRSP, as well as consultant services to
undertake detailed studies of rehabilitation needs. Details of the PPF are as
follows:
Project Preparation Facility
Component                                                          Ammount
(US$' 000)
Sector Reform -  Technical assistance (10 staff-months)              100
2-3 vehicles and office equipment                   85
Supplies and operating costs                        15
Training, travel and salaries                       35
Sector Reform Subtotal                             235
EMN           -  Technical assistance (12 staff-months)              123
Studies for berth rehabilitation                    40
Overseas training (5 staff-months)                   35
Spare parts and equipment                           37
EMN Subtotal                                       235
SONELEC       -  Technical assistance (20 staff-months)              180
Spare parts and equipment for
Nouakchott water supply system                     238
Studies for protection of
Nouadhibou power supply system                       20
SONELEC Subtotal                                   438
Unallocated (10%)                                    92
Total                                            12=__



- 27 -
D.   Financing Plan
3.26       In addition to the IDA credit, the project will be cofinanced by
CCCE with a contribution of FF 25 million (US$3.0 million) and French
bilateral aid from FAC for FF 7.3 million (US$.9 million) which are providing
support in parallel for the SONELEC component. The European Development Fund
(EDF) is providing parallel financing of ECU 1.6 million (US$1.3 million) for
the EMN component to finance cargo handling equipment, spare parts and other
equipment, and rehabilitation of the wharf. The proposed EIB financing of
ECU 5-6 million (US$4.0 million) will support rehabilitation of Nouadhibou's
electricity system (US$2.4 million) and part of the water system (US$1.6
million).  There is also the possibility of financing from KfW of DM 8
million (US$2.4 million) for SONELEC. This possible financing to complete
financing for SONELEC's water supply system in Nouadhibou would be as a loan
to Government on similar terms as IDA's and onlent to SONELEC on terms
comparab'le to the on-lending of the IDA credit. If the KfW loan is approved,
the equivalent amount would be cancelled from the IDA credit. At the present
time this is not included in the financing plan.  The participating
enterprises (SONELEC, EMN, OPT) and Government will finance 12% of total
costs, equivalent to the direct local cost component less a portion fo CRSP's
operating costs and salaries. The proposed financing plan is as follows:
Financing Plan
(US$'OO0)
Govern-    Enter-
Component             ment       prises     IDA     FAC   CCCE    EDF       EIB    Total
1. Sector Reform       180          120   3,700       -    --                      4,000
2. Rehabilitation
of SONELEC        --         2,770   9,000     900   3,000    --    4,000   19,670
.- Rehabilitation
of EMN            --           265   2,800      --    --      1,300     --    4,365
4. Technical
Assistance to
OPT               --           310     900      --    --       --       --    1,210
Total               180        3X465  16A400     900   3000   1X300  4Q000   291245
3.27      It is proposed that Government on-lend that portion of the IDA
credit to each of the three public enterprises benefiting directly from the
project corresponding to their respective component, excluding the financing
provided under the project for external audits which will be passed on to the
enterprises as grants.  The terms and conditions of the on-lending should be
consistent with the implementation period and overall useful life of the



- 28 -
works performed and goods acquired, and at the Bank's lending rate at time of
Board presentation. The proposed terms and conditions agreed upon during
negotiations are: (a) SONELEC: 15 years repayment including 5 years
of grace; (b) EMN: 10 years repayment including 3 years of grace; and c) OPT:
10 years repayment including 3 years of grace. Repayment would be made in
equal instalments of principal and interest. The foreign exchange risk would
be borne by the Government. Signature of the necessary on-lending agreements
between government and each of the three enterprises is a condition of credit
effectiveness (para 6.02(e)).
3.28      CCCE has already approved a loan to SONELEC with Government
guarantee for FF 89 million (US$11.0 million) at 5.5% for 16 years, including
6 years grace period, for SONELEC to cover the rehabilitation of the
electricity generation under the proposed budget and distribution system in
Nouakchott under the proposed budget and for CCCE's contribution to SONELEC's
new generation facilities in that city.  Work is proceeding on that
sub-component ahead of IDA's support. FAC's support is provided as a grant
to SONELEC in the context of the Franco-Mauritanian cooperative agreement.
EDF financing of ECU 1.6 million (US$1.3 million) has been approved as a loan
to Government under special conditions, including a commission fee of 0.75%
and repayment period of 50 years including 10 years grace. These funds will
be onlent to EMN on terms comparable to on-lending of the IDA credit. The
proposed EIB financing of ECU 5-6 million for SONELEC's electricity system
and part of the water system in Nouadhibou would be provided as a loan to
Government at 2.5% over 20-25 years, to be onlent to SONELEC at about 8% over
15 years, including 5 years of grace.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Organization and Management
4.01      The project is to be implemented jointly by the Ministry of Plan
and the three enterprises included in this phase of the rehabilitation
program. Responsibility will be given to each enterprise to manage, in its
own right, those aspects of the project that are aimed at that enterprise's
rehabilitation.  This entails, among other things, the determination of
detailed rehabilitation efforts, recruitment of technical advisors, training
of enterprise staff, procurement of equipment, contracting and reporting to
central authorities on progress.   These efforts will be monitored and
coordinated by the Ministry of Plan.
1. Enterprise Project Management
4.02      Each enterprise will establish project task forces for its
undertakings under the project.   In the case of EMN and SONELEC,
responsibility will be assumed by specific technical units, comprising the
technical advisors and their counterparts, created for this purpose.  The



- 29 -
respective leaders of the technical assistance teams will report in their
advisory positions directly to the Director Generals. For OPT, a task force
leader shall be appointed, as a condition of disbursement for that component,
to supervise the consultants, and to plan and coordinate the component's
activities (para 6.03).
2. Public Enterprise Rehabilitation Unit (CRSP)
4.03      Under the sector reform component, the CRSP within the Ministry of
Plan is responsible for:
(a) undertaking studies of issues affecting the entire sector
(e.g., training needs, salaries, control system);
(b) devising information systems to provide a base of financial and
other operational data for the monitoring of enterprise
performance;
(c) advising and developing recommendations for changes to the sector's
institutional, legal and financial environment, in collaboration
with other relevant ministries and agencies;
(d) coordinating and monitoring the implementation of Government's
reform measures and specific rehabilitation actions;
(e) fulfilling the responsibilities of the Ministry of Plan
in the elaboration and execution of program contracts
with enterprises (para 3.07);
(f) preparing subsequent steps for Government as the continuation and
extension of its rehabilitation program to other enterprises;
(g) monitoring and reporting on the progress of all project components
to Government and external source of financing.
This unit is to be fully equipped and staffed under the project; the proposed
organization chart is presented in Annex 4-1. Appointment of the Unit's
Director, satisfactory to IDA, was made in mid-1984. Selection of the Chief
Advisor and at least two professional staff is a condition of credit
effectiveness (para 6.02(f)). Terms of reference and b'iding documents for
selecting the Chief Advisor have been prepared and are acceptable to IDA.
Similarly, CRSP's terms of reference (Annex 3-1) have been reviewed and
approved by IDA.
4.04      It is intended that external consultants will work closely with
CRSP staff in the execution of various sector and enterprise studies.   The
Unit is responsible for supervising the work of these consultants and
coordinating the work of the technical experts engaged for enterprise
diagnostic studies as part of the preparation of the second phase.  To
facilitate the management of these studies and not to overburden CRSP's
administrative capacity, the four major studies will be undertaken by one
management consulting firm and staggered over about an eighteen month



- 30 -
period. Given the priority attached to the question of an appropriate salary
policy for the PEs, this will be the first study to be undertaken: the other
studies will be programmed for later in the project.
4.05      The other ad hoc studies and technical. advisory services will be
done on an as-required basis: very flexible contracting arrangements have
been agreed to allow CMSP to eng2ge short-term advisors up to one
person-month to undertake these assignments.   It is anticipated that
short-term advice on divestures, privatization, legal reforms, etc. will be
provided in this way. In addition, since the CRSP's Chief Advisor has been
selected from a consulting firm, that firm will provide general
administrative back-up to the Advisor and facilitate the coordination of
selection of other consultants as required.
3. The Program Contract Prccess
4.06      A key feature of the new public enterprise law (para 1.14) is the
requirement for all enterprises to have program contracts with Government in
order to define more clearly the objectives of each enterprise, specify
quantitative targets for attainment of those objectives, and determine the
reciprocal obligations of Government and each enterprise. As the first
program contract will be prepared in the context of this project, CRSP will
play a major role in establishing the program contract process.
4.07      Two enterprises--EMN and SONELEC--will be required to prepare
program contracts under the project. (A general description of the intended
process is contained in Annex 3-2.)  Briefly, this process, which must be
flexible and adaptive, will involve the enterprise and its supervising
ministries (Finance and the technical ministry) with CRSP playing the role of
catalyst and coordinator. Assistance in these programs' preparation will be
provided through the enterprise technical assistance teams and advisors
engaged by CRSP. It was agreed during negotiations that the two program
contracts would be completed by end December 1985 (para 3.07). IDA will
review and agree to the final program contract and monitor the process
through project supervision and periodic progress reports.
4. Inter-Ministerial Coordination
4.08      In carrying out its tasks, CRSP will collaborate with other
ministries, especially the enterprises' supervising ministries and the
Ministry of Finance. Many of its areas of interest, for example, salaries
and legal statutes, necessarily concern other ministries which are directly
responsible for those matters. Coordination and ensuring the involvement of
these concerned ministries is therefore be an important part of CRSP's
operations. Several means for this interministerial cooperation exist. Very
important measures (e.g., decisions to restructure enterprises) and policy
questions (e.g., tariffs) will be decided by the Council of Ministers, based
on proposals prepared by CRSP and submitted by the Minister of Plan. More
regular contact between ministries, as proposals are being developed by CRSP,
can be facilitated through (a) involvement of other ministries in working
groups to develop specific proposals (e.g., interlocking debts);



- 31 -
(b) ad hoc committees formed to review enterprise rehabilitation plans; (c)
participation of supervising ministries in preparation and approval of
program contracts; and (d) participation of concerned ministries in carrying
out the sector studies (e.g., salat-ies, budget procedures, information
system) through their review of terms of reference, progress reports and
final output.
4.09      In particular, CRSP is expected to work closely with DTAE in the
Ministry of Finance which functions as the supervising body for financial
questions. DTAF has a special interest in the work to be carried out on
enterprise budgeting practices, salaries, accounting, training and
information systems since it will be one of the bodies responsible for seeing
that enterprises implement the agreed reforms and abide by any new legal and
regulatory measures. DTAF staff is thus to be included in the training
provided under the project and will be part of working groups set up to
review the studies carried out as part of the project. Terms of reference
for these studies specify that the key parties, in addition- to CRSP, are to
be involved in each study as members of study working groups.
5. Training Programs
4.10      Each component under the project includes special training for
staff involved in the rehabilitation process. Detailed programs for each
component are to be prepared, with IDA assistance, in order to identify
specific counterparts and training courses and seminars. In the case of CRSP
and DTAF. the focus of training will be on: (1) familiarizing staff with the
institutional, regulatory and fiscal framework applicable in other countries
and their experiences in rehabilitating enterprises; and (2) appreciation and
refinement of specialized skills necessary for the reform of the parapublic
sector including use of micro-computers, personnel administration, training
programs, "contrat-plans", project appraisal techniques, performance
measurement systems, budgetting techniques and financial analysis, plus
sectoral development. In total it is anticipated that each CRSP staff once
recruited would be provided with a general project launch workshop plus
seminars and orientation visits as appropriate that would also include a
select number of DTAF staff. Provision has been made about one course (4
weeks) for 10 senior staff (6 CRSP and 4 DTAF).  In the case of the
enterprises, specific training programs will be designed to meet each
enterprise's needs.  For OPT, this will focus on two managers in the
accounting section and the manager and staff of the data processing unit. It
is envisaged that these new staff to be appointed under the project will be
trained as follows: management accounting (3 months); cost accounting (3
months); use of computerized financial systems (1 month); managing a computer
facility (3 months); technical computer operations in conjunction with
supplier (3 months); systems initiation (1 month); and computer operators (3
months). Additional training (3 months) will be provided on-site for users
and accounting staff. For both EMN and SONELEC, the training programs will
focus on reinforcing management and technical operations, based on needs to
be fully elaborated by the technical advisors. Special attention will be
paid to routine maintenance, stock control, collections and billings,
internal controls, accounting and general management in addition to the
technical areas relevant to each enterprise.



- 32 -
B.   Implementation Plan
4.11      A slmmary of the project's implementation plan is contained in
Annex 4-2, which shows that implementation is anticipated to take about four
years, culminating in the preparation of plans for the next rehabilitation
phase.  Physical works in EMN and SONELEC are, to a large extent, expected to
be completed in less than three years. To allow adequate provision for the
completion of all works and preparation of the next phase of the sector's
rehabilitation, the forecast of disbursements has been made over a five year
period. A closing date of December 31, 1990 would thus allow all project
accounts to be closed. An advance of US$1.0 million from the PPF (para 3.25)
was approved to finance completion of project preparation and the start-up of
technical assistance to refine the rehabiliation plans, including detailed
specifications, tender documents and working drafts of the first program
contracts for EMN and SONELEC. It is assumed that the Credit will become
effective by September 1985.
C.   Procurement
4.12      The goods and services to be financed under the project will be
procured in accordance with appropriate guidelines as summarized in the
following table. Those items financed by CCCE, FAC, EIB EDF, and KfW follow
their procurement policies while the IDA Credit will finance items procured
following the Association's guidelines. Special procurement arrangements are
not applicable for CRSP's incremental operating expenses.
4.13      For SONELEC and EMN, major civil works and equipment will be
grouped whenever possible into contracts over US$100,000 and wiJl be procured
through ICB. Contracts for minor physical works, tools, spare parts and
miscellaneous equipment, valued at less than US$100,000 (up to cumulative
ceilings of US$250,000, US$250,000 and US$100,000 respectively for SONELEC.
EMN and OPT) will mainly be procured through LCB according to procedures
acceptable to IDA. The purchase of comjuter equipment by OFT will be under
limited international competitive bidding: Provision has been made to allow
retroactive financing of up to US$200,000 for computer equipment and related
technical assistance acquired by OPT between March 1, 1985 and credit
signature, subject to IDA's approval. Certain equipment will be acquired by
direct purchase in order to ensure compatibility of spares and replacement
equipment. For goods valued at less than US$10,000, shopping with at least
three price quotations will be permitted; however, cumulative ceilings of
US$50,000, US$50,000, US$20,000 and US$50,000 will be set for these direct
purchases, respectively for SONELEC, EMN, OPT, and the Sector Reform
component. Physical works for the SONELEC component will be undertaken
mainly by force account. Training, technical assistance and consulting
services will be procured in accordance with the Association's guidelines.
All procurement decisions in excess of US$20,000 equivalent will be reviewed
by IDA, which will cover over 90% of the total value of all contracts let for
financing by IDA. Smaller contracts will be subject to selective post-award
review.



33 -
Procuremegt Table
Project                                    Procurement Methood                   Total
Element                     ICQ          LC            Other        N.A.         Coat
Sector Reform
Technical Assistance          -           -             0.58          -           0.53
and TraIning                                         (0.58)                    (0.58)
Consulting Services                   6   -             2.50          -           2.50
Audits
(2.38)                    (2.38)
Equipment & Repairs           -                         0.04          -           0.04
(0.04)                    (0.04)
Operating Cozw.               -           -             -            0.65         0.65
Salaries                                                          (0.47)       (0.47)
Total                                             3.12         0.65         3.77
(3.00)       (0.47)       (3.47)
SONELEC
Technical Assistance          -           -             2.55          -           2.55
and Training                                         (1.11) -       -          (1.11)
Cocsulting Services           -           -             0.48          -           0.45
(O0.4 1)       -          (O0.41I)
Nouakchott Yater Supply
- equipment. materials      2.30         0.25          0.07          -           2.62
and spare parts          (2.30)       (0.25)        (0.05)                   (2.60)
- installation             0.35          -             0.53          -           0.88
(0.35)         _                                     (0.35)
2.65         0.25          0.60                      3.50
(2.65)       (0.25)        (0.05)                    (2.95)
rouadhibou WJater Supply
- equipment. marerlals      3.90         0.05          1.35          -           5.30
and spare parts          (3.50)       (0.05)        (0.05)                    (3.60)
- installation              0.40         -             0.50          -           0.90
(0.40)         _                                     (0.40)
4.30         0.05          1.S5                      6.20
(3.90)       (0.05)        (0.05)                   (4.00)
Nouakchott Electricity        -           --            3.63          -           3.63
Nouadbibou Electricity        -           -             2.80          -           2.90
Total                 6.95          0.30        11.90           -          19.16
(6.55)       (0.30)       (1.62)                     (6.47)
Tehnictl Aasistance           -            -            0.86          -           0.86
and Training                                         (0.75)                    (0.75)
Consulting Services           -            -            0.21          -           0.21
(0.19)                   (0.19)
Equipment and Spares         1.32         0.28           .97          -           2.57
(1.32)       (0.20)       (0.02)                     (1.54)
Physical IWorks               --           -            0.39          -           0.39
Office Rehabilitation and    -            0.05          0.05          -           0.10
Equipment                              (0.04)        (0.04)                    (0.08)
Total                  1.32         0.33          2.48                      4.13
(1.32)       (0.24)        (1.00)                    (2.56)
OPT
Training                      -            -            0.20          -           0.20
(0.17)                    (0.17)
Consulcting Services          -            --           0.54          -           0.54
(0.49)                   (0.49)
Equipment                     -           0.25          -             -          0.25
(0.25)                                 (0.25)
Operating Costs              -             -            -            0.21         0.21
Total                               0.25          0.76         0.21         1.20
(0.25)       (0.67)                    (0.90)
FPF Refinancing               -           0.05          0.9C         0.05         1.00
(0.05)       (0.90)       (0.05)       (1.00)
TOTAL                        8.27         0.93         19.16         0.90        29.25
Note: Figules in parentheses are the respective aounts financed by the Association



- 34 -
D.   Disbursements
4.14      The proceeeds of the credit are estimated to be disbursed as shown
in Annex 4-3. It is anticipated that the project will disburse relatively
quickly, given the nature of the physical works to be accomplished and the
advanced state of project preparation. The estimated disbursement schedule
therefore differs from the profile for past ports, water and electricity
projects in the region (which take on average about nine years to disburse)
and reflects the substantial technical assistance element of the project. A
five year disbursement period is anticipated.
4.15      All disbursements from the Credit account would be fully documented
except for contracts  less that US$10,000 equivalent,  EMN's office
rehabilitation, training and CRSP's operating costs and cost of upgrading
CRSP's offices which would be disbursed against statement of expenditure
certified by the CRSP's Director or the appropriate enterprise Director
General.   The supporting documentation would be held at CRSP and the
enterprises for review by IDA supervision missions and external auditors
(para 3.10).   The total amount of disbursements against statement of
expenditures is estimated at US$750,000, representing about 5% of the
proposed credit amount. Such disbursement procedures are required since the
Association will only accept reimbursement requests greater than US$20,000
equivalent.
4.16      Disbursements will be based on the following categories for the
amounts indicated in the table which follows.



- 35 -
Disbursement Categories
Proj ect Element                                        Total           IDA         Percentage of Expenditures
Cost         Credit        Financed by IDA
-(US$ nillion)-
Sector Reform
Technical Assistance, Training and                       1.95          1.50         1002 of total expenditures
Consulting Services for Studies
and Assignments
Consulting Services for Preparation                      0.67         0.60          100% of total expenditures
of Nedium Term Plan
External Audits                                          0.56         0.30          60: of total expenditures
Office Equipment and Vehicles                            0.12         0.05          100Z of foreign cost if directly
imported and 75% if locally procured.
Local Consultants and Staff Salaries                     0.45         0.30          1002 of local consultants' salaries
Other Operating Costs                                    0.25         0.15          752 of total expenscs
Total                                                    4.00         2.90
SONELEC
Technical Assistance and Training                        2.73          1.10         75% of total expenditures
Consulting Services                                      0.50         0.30          100% of total expenditures
Rehabilitation of Nouakchott Water System
- Equipment, Materials and Spare Parts                 2.95         2.65          1002 of foreign cost if directly
imported and 752 if locally procured.
- Installation, Connection and Works                   0.88         0.35          100% of foreign expenditures
Rehabilitation of Nouadhibou Water System
- Replacement of transmission pipeline                 2.80         2.30          90% of total expenditures
- Pumping Station and Equipment.                       1.20         1.20          100% of foreign cost if directly
Maintenance Equipment                                                          imported and 752 if locally procured
- Installation. Connection and Works for               0.40         0.30          1002 of foreign cost
above Equipment
- Other Equipment and Installation                     1.80          -
Rehabilitation of Nouakchott Electricity System          3.63
Rehabilitation of Nouadhibou Electricity System          2.80          -
Total                                                   19.69         8.1
EIN
Technical Assistance, Training                           1.27         1.10          90% of total expenditures
and Consulting Services
Port Equipment and Spares                                2.60          1.22         100% of foreign expenditures if
directly imported and 752 if locally
procured
Wharf Rehabilitation                                     0.39          -
Office Rehabilitation and Equipment                      0.10         0.08          75% of total expenditures
Total                                                    4.36         2.40
OPT
Training                                                 0.20         0.15          90% of total expenditures
Consulting Services                                      0.54         0.40          902 of total expenditures
Equipment                                                0.25         0.25          100% of total expenditures
Operating Costs                                          0.21          -
Total                                                    1.20         0.80
PFY Refinancing                                          -            1.00
Revolving Fund for Sector Reform                         -            0.25
Component
Unallocated                                              -            0.95
Total                                                   29.25        16.40



- 36 -
E.   Revolving Funds
4.17      To expedite implementation of the sector reform component,
Government would establish a Special Account in a local bank as a revolving
fund for IDA's contribution to the sector reform component. This account
would be financed with an initial deposit of US$250,000 from the proceeds of
the proposed credit upon credit effectiveness.  Similarly, a Borrower's
Account of UN 750,000 (US$10,000) would be established in a local bank to
finance the local component of CRSP's operating costs. Replenishment of the
Borrower's Account would take place quarterly. Details of the operation and
establishment of this fund were agreed upon during negotiations. Its funding
will be a condition of credit effectiveness (para 6.02(g)). Budgetary
provision for CRSP's local costs would be inscribed in the annual operating
budgets for the Ministry of Plan, starting in 1985. Assurances that adequate
provision for 1985 has been made is a condition of credit effectiveness (para
6.02(a)). The enterprises will follow their usual business banking practices
for transactions under the project.
F.   Accounts and Audits
4.18      Each implementing agency would establish separate accounts for its
particular component, in accordance with accepted accounting principles, to
record all project expenditures and to maintain records on commitments,
reimbursements and the status of project funds.   During negotiations
agreement was obtained that each enterprise's accounts and CRSP accounts
would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles and in such detail as IDA may
reasonably request (para 3.10). These reports would be submitted to IDA by
each implementing agency within six months of the close of its fiscal year.
G.  Reporting and Monitoring
4.19      Each implementing agency would be required to submit, through the
CRSP which would provide its own comments, quarterly reports on the progress
of project implementation, physical works and institutional achievements for
review by IDA. The scope and detail of these reporting requirements will be
agreed upon with the project executing agencies.  Monitoring indicators for
each component have been prepared and are contained in Annexes 4-4 to 4-7.
In addition, CRSP will prepare an annual report summarizing progress in all
project components and highlighting progress in implementing Government's
reform measures, plus general policy and institutional areas that affect the
sector. At the completion of the project, the borrower will prepare the
project completion report, incorporating contributions made by the other
implementing agencies.



- 37 -
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.01      Benefits to the public enterprise sector as a whole are expected to
arise from the sector's reform. By instituting more rational regulations and
controls, encouraging greater enterprise autonomy and responsibility, and
devising more appropriate means for defining and managing
enterprise/government interaction, the operations of the enterprises that
make up the sector can be expected to be streamlined, decisions made on a
more timely basis and investment, pricing and personnel policies more in
keeping within sound financial and economic criteria. Another benefit of the
institutional reform would be derived from the restructuring of the sector.
The closure of certain uneconomic enterprises and sale of others to the
private sector and the reorganization of still others are designed to
maximize the economic benefits of those enterprises.
5.02      By initiati-'g the rehabilitation of three key public enterprises
providing essential services to the local population-water, electricity,
ports and telecommunication services--users of these services, including the
urban poor, should enjoy a higher level of service. In some cases, notably
electricity, private investments in alternative service will be avoided and,
through institutional strengthening of these enterprises, new services will
be more rationally planned and executed. From Government's point of view,
the increased financial self-sufficiency of the enterprises will reduce its
direct budgetary support, ensuring that consumers pay for services. This
factor will be increasingly important in the areas of water supply and port
services as their present tariff struictures do not generate adequate
revenues. Productivity improvements snould result from the curb on hiring
unskilled labor and the reduction in the labor force through attrition and
enforcement of labor policies, economically justified salary and wage scales,
and improved technical skills and know-how. Successful rehabilitation of
these enterprises will provide an example to other enterprises, with
longer-term effects spreading to the sector as a whole.
B.   Economic Justification
5.03      While the project is justified principally on its institutional
objectives and the qualitative improvements to enterprise operations and the
sector as a whole, certain tangible benefits will be realized through the
rehabilitation of SONELEC and EMN.  In the case of the SONELEC and EMN
components, the economic rate of return (ERR) calculations indicate that both
components are economically justified.  For SONELEC, the ERR has been
estimated at 44% for the component as a whole. For EMN, the ERR has been
estimated at 68%.    In both cases,  the rates of return take into
consideration the tariff increases proposed under the project (para 2.10) in
order to establish the financial viability of those enterprises. The average
economic rate of return on these components, which account for over 80% of



- 38 -
total project costs, is about 44%. Details of these ERR calculations are
provided in Annexes 5-1 and 5-2. respectively, for SONELEC and EMN.
5.04      Sensitivity tests to these ERRs, as described more fully in the
Project File (Item 1, Appendices 1 and 2 on SONELEC and EMN), show that these
results are highly sensitive.   Tariff increases,  the rate of deterioration
assumed for the existing systems, the possibility of total collapse of the
services, and staffing reductions are all shown to affect the ERRs
significantly.  However,  these benefits are difficult to estimate with
precision and the range of ERRs that results under various scenarios reflects
the uncertain nature of the outcome of the project's rehabilitation efforts.
This is especially the case for the managerial improvements, technical
efficiency, and institutional strengthening anticipated as a result of the
project.
C.   The Need for Technical Assistance
5.05      Local capabilities to reform the sector need to be strengthened if
the above benefits are to be realized. At present, the institutional base
upon which to build an organization capable of developing appropriate
macro-level policies, monitoring sector performance and coordinating
rehabilitation actions is limited. Concommitant with IDA's support for the
physical rehabiliation of enterprises under this project, technical
assistance is also provided at both the enterprise and sectoral levels.
This support will complement that already provided by ILO and FAC to the
Ministry of Finance and to the efforts of other donors, notably French
bilateral assistance, in SONELEC and OPT.
D.   Risks
5.06      From a technical perspective the project entails very few risks.
The physical characteristics and configuration of existing facilities to be
rehabilitated are well known. There is a relatively minor technical risk
concerning equipment compatibility since some plant to be restored is
extremely old and originates in countries without guarantee of readily
available s-pares and replacement parts.   These risks are considered
acceptable for this type of project.
5.07      The more serious risks lie in the project's institutional reforms
and strengthening. There is the risk that the needs for reform far outweigh
the available resources to execute reform and only partial treatment may be
feasible. At the same time, if a comprehensive approach is not pursued, the
project risks not tackling systemic problems and achieving merely
unsustainable results. Admittedly, global reform of the public enterprise
sector in a country such as Mauritania, with a weak absorption capacity and
institutional base, is an ambitious undertaking.
5.08      The proposed approach to the sector's rehabilitation, of which this
project is a part, was devised taking those risks into account. By dividing
the program into two phases, IDA and Government expect to use the first phase



- 39 -
as an opportunity to learn more about the sector's problems and to try a new
approach to enterprise reform, based on program contracts linked to the
rehabilitation of enterprises. During this phase, Government's institutional
capacity should also be developed to provide the base for further policy
development and coordination of future implementation action.
5.09      The project enhances Government's commitment to, and political
support for, the sector's reform.   The approach taken is to use the project
as the vehicle for implementing the decisions already approved by Government
in its emergency measure plan. The project provides supporting analysis to
reaffirm those decisions, quantify their impacts, establish a timetable for
their implementation, and furnish needed technical advice and additional
study to implement those decisions effectively. At the same time, the
project creates the opportunity for Government to measure the effects of its
rehabilitation program with the necessary technical, financial and
institutional resources that, without the project, it would very likely not
have at its disposal. Success at this stage should then encourage Government
to proceed further and to maintain its resolve to reform the sector.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A.   Agreements Reached
6.01      Agreements obtained during negotiations were that :
(a) Government will carry out an action plan according to the agreed
timetable for the implementation of its sector reform measures,
acceptable to IDA (para 1.27).
(b) Government will review periodically with IDA the progress in
achieving its sector restructuring according to the agreed action
plan (para 1.29(b).
(c) SONELEC and Government will approve periodic tariff adjustments as
agreed with IDA and agree to review any major investments with IDA
to ensure SONELEC's financial self-sufficiency (para 2.10).
(d)  Government will establish and enact formal legal status for OPT's
training center and the National Savings Bank by March 31, 1986
(para 2.23).
(e) Government will permit OPT to enforce strictly its collection
procedures (para 2.26).
(f) OPT will review with IDA its short-term rehabilitation program and
agree to a plan for its implementation and follow-up by June 30,
1985 and will obtain prior IDA approval of any major new investment
(para 2.27).



- 40 -
(g) Government will submit a plan for training CRSP and DTAF staff,
acceptable to IDA, by June 30, 1985 (para 3.04).
(h)  Government, SONELEC and EMN will enter into contract programs.
in scope and level of detail as shall reasonably be requested by
IDA, to be reviewed and approved by IDA, no later than December 31,
1985 (para 3.07).
(i) Government will review the conclusions and recommendations of
the studies to be carried out under the project with IDA upon their
satisfactory completion, and to prepare a plan for implementing
those agreed recommendations as part of the second phase of its
rehabilitation program (para 3.09).
(j) Government will undertake annual audits of CRSP's accounts and, in
the case of enterprises, enterprises agree to undertake annual
audits of their accounts in accordance with standard auditing
practice, by auditors acceptable to IDA and in such detail as IDA
shall reasonably request. Such audits shall be submitted to IDA
within six months after the end of the fiscal year starting from
FY85 (para 3.10).
(k) SONELEC will, as part of its action plan, recruit and prepare a
program to train a sufficient number of staff in identified areas
no later than August 31, 1985 (paras 3.15 and 3.17).
(1) SONELEC will prepare and implement, as part of its action plan,
improvements of its management of client accounts, acceptable to
IDA (para 3.17).
(n)  SONELEC and Government will undertake appropriate organizational,
institutional and legal reform, addressing identified issues, in
accordance with a plan agreed to with IDA (para 3.17).
(n) SONELEC and Government will undertake a study of an appropriate
tariff structure to be reviewed and its agreed recommendations
implemented by December 31, 1987 (para 3.17).
(o) EMN will prepare a training staff program, acceptable to IDA by
June 30, 1985 (para 3.19).
(p) EMN will undertake identified technical, financial and economic
studies, in accordance with an agreed timetable, to review the
results of those studies with  IDA,  and  to their agreed
implementation (para 3.19).
(q) EMN will undertake an action plan of management improvements
including, among other things, changes to working hours, an agreed
productivity improvement plan, a limit to the maximum number of
employees, and a suitable management information system (para
3.21).



-41 -
(r) Government will transfer the operations and assets of the new port
to EHN and agrees to the transfer of cargo handling and workshop
equipment purchased under the project to those operations on terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA, by December 31, 1987 or no later
than six months after the completion of the new port (para 3.21).
(s) OPT will implement its revised accounting system, separating postal
and telecommunications, for its FY87 statements (para 3.22).
(t) OPT will appoint and train sufficient staff to operate new
computerized financial systems, according to a program acceptable
to IDA (para 3.22).
6.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness are that:
(a) Government will include adequate budgetary allocations for the
operation of the CRSP, settlement -of arrears due to OPT, and
payment of services obtained from SONELEC and OPT in its 1985
operating budget (para 1.29, 3.12 and 4.17).
(b)  Government will approve a tariff increase, acceptable to IDA, for
SONELEC (para 2.10).
(c) Government will approve a new organization structure, satisfactory
to IDA, for SONELEC (para 3.17).
(d) EMN will appoint four technical advisors, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA, and at least three of the four will have
effectively taken up their positions (para 3.19).
Ce) execution by Government and the participating enterprises of
subsidiary agreements onlending credit proceeds on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA (para 3.27).
(f)  Government will appoint a chief advisor to the CRSP and two
professional staff, under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA
and subject to approval by IDA (para 4.03).
(g) Government will establish a Special Account and a Borrower's
Account, with an initial deposit of UM 750,000 million to be
replenished quarterly (para 4.17).



- 42 -
6.03      A condition of disbursement of the OPT component is that:
OPT appoints a project task force leader acceptable to IDA (para
4.02).
6.04      A condition of disbursement of preparation of a medium-term
rehabilitation program under the sector reform component
is that:
Government achieves progress, satisfactory to IDA, on the
implementation of its sector reform emergency measures prior to
preparation of the medium-term rehabilitation plan (para 3.11).
B.   Recommendation
6.05      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable for
a credit of US$16.4 million equivalent to the Government of the Islamic
Republic of Mauritania on standard IDA terms.
WAPPE
March 1985



- 43 -
Annex 1-1
Page 1 of 2
MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
GOVERNMENT REFORM MEASURES
The emergency measures adopted by Government in November 1983 to
reform the public enterprise (PE) sector include the following:
(a) a classification of all PEs into four categories--those
that should stay as PEs, those that should be privatized,
those that should rightly be part of the public sector,
and those that should be liquidated--plus a moratorium on the
creation of new public enterprises;
Cb) the adoption of a policy of cost-based prices to be
gradually introduced starting in 1984, with operating
subsidies eliminated except where fully justified
for socio-political reasons and to the extent that
Government-imposed prices are kept below cost;
Cc) the prompt payment by Government of goods and services
acquired from public enterprises, starting in 1984, based
on realistic budgets, and the settlement of unpaid bills from
1983 and preceeding years in 1984;
(d) the settlement of inter-company and company/government/bank
debts, based on the net indebtedness of these parties as
of end-1983, through compensation and refinancing, and
if necessary arbitration;
(e) the trimming of excess staff by a freeze on hiring of
unskilled workers and gradual reduction of numbers,
through strict enforcement of labor regulations;
(f) an investigation into salaries for PEs, based on
comparison of job content and evaluations, leading
to recommendations for an appropriate salary structure;



- 44 -
Annex 1-1
Page 2 of 2
(g) development of a model budget structure and procedures
for PEs to apply as of 1985, with compliance tc
existing statutory procedures in 1984 and the
monitoring of budget and actuals;
(h) requirement for enterprises to strengthen their billing
and collection procedures, including appropriate
penalties for late payment;
(i) recruitment of qualified accountants in all EPICs,
to improve their financial management, reporting and control
systems;
{j) the training of some 20 accountants and a review
of the selection criteria for accountants and auditors;
(k) the requirement for all enterprise investment plans to be
compatible with overall economic and social development
objectives, and subject to detailed feasibility studies for
each investment. Investments of over UM 20 million
would have to be approved by Cabinet; and
(1) the creation of monitoring units in each technical
ministry, with a separate structure to be created in the
Ministry of Plan to monitor and coordinate the parastatal
recovery program.
WAPPE
Novembar 1984



MAURITANI A
PUDLIC ENTERPRISE TEcHNICAI ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
SECTOR REFORH PROGRAH
REFORH MEASURE                                   ACTIVITY                                             TIMETABLE                                 AGENCY                      STATUS
Legal FraMework                 1.   extenaion of public enterprise law to            completed                                                mn. Plan                  - new law was enacted in
mixed enterprises                                                                                                                  February 1984
2.   modernizntion of relevant PE law                conpleted                                                Min, Plan                 - nev law was enetted in
February 1984
3.   adoption of general statutes for all PEs   completed                                                     Mn. Plan                  - draft of naw statutas
reviewed by Bank
4.   modification of legal basis for SONEIEC.   end-1985                                                       enterpriea/Hlin. Plan  - requireuanea  eot out
EHN and OPT                                                                                                                        In enterprise action
plans, according to
needs identified at
appratmal.
5.   provide new regulations for operation of   completed                                                     Min. Plan                 - new regulations issued
PE board of directors                                                                                                              In 1984
Sector Restructuring            1.   classification of enterprisee into tho.:   completed for 30 enterprises                                   Mn. Plan                  - decision taken by
to be retained and rehabilitated, those                                                                                           Council of Hintsters in
to be liquidated, those to be privatized                                                                                          April 1984.
and those to be coverted to quani-
government service (EPA?)
2.   Implementation of let Plase restructuring  program Initiated and to be undertaken over                    Interminiaterial           progress on
plan                                            project period (see attached)                            Commission of             ieplemantation in
(a) liquidations                                                                                         technical ministers    attached
(b) privatizations                                                                                       and Min. Plan
(c) conversion to EPAP
(d) rehabilitation
Settlenent of Interlocking   1.   agreement on amount. due by Government,             substantially complete for 15 major enterpriee,   Min. Plan/Mn.                    - report issued on debts
Debts                                 enterprises and banks                           settlement for 12 enterprtses completed,                 Finance                   of enterprises                aT
settlement for OPT, for end-December 1985, 
settlement for SOCOGIM and SMCPP by end-1986                                                                    w
2.   monitoring of repayment and other               Bianntual review starting July 1985, throughout          Min  Plan/Min.            - Biannual reports
settlement methods                              project period                                           Finance                   starting in July 1984 to
review settlement terms
being met



Tariff and Price Policy        1.   adjustments to enterprises prices and          project period; initial tariff increaa. for EHN    Mn. Plan/Council of   - tariff change of DMI              N
tariffs as required                           condition of negotiatinn; further tariff               Ministers                approved by Its Board,       °
increases for SONEIEC and EMN to be made as                                    now watting final
specified In credit agreement.  In other                                       Government approvall;
enterprisea. Government to adjust prices/tariffs                               price increase granted
bsoed on request a  f individual enterprioas                                      for PHARMRIM; price
increase for STPN under
study
Prompt Payment by              1.   Inclusion of reallstic budget allocations  1984 to includa SONELEC nales to direct                    NMn. Plan/ln,            - 1984 target of SONELEC
Government                           in Government operating budget                Government aervices; 1985 to be extended to            Finance                  sales to direct
include all enterprisess  required for OPT and                                 Government servlces was
SONELEC as condition of effectiveness                                          met; 1985 target to be
met by December 1984
2.   monitoring of invoices, payments and          Biannual review starting July 1985, throughout         Mn. Plan/Min.            - biannual report
arreara by Covernment                         project period                                                 Finance          starting In July 1984 to
review arrears for
SONELEC end OPT
Approprinte PE Salary          1.   carry out study of current salary              study to be completed by end 1986                      Mn. Plan                 - ILO prepared overviev
Policy                               structurea                                                                                                                    paper in Nay 1984.
Terms of roefrance for
broader study completed
and approved by                  a
Bank.
2.   adopt neceBsary policy changes                Government deciaions by mid-1987                         in. Plan               - implementation to be
supported under project
Reduction of Labor Force       I.   Reduction through attrition and layoffs,   project period; completed for DM. SOMIR, SONADER  Mn. Plan/enterprises  labor forces of four
aR part of aector restructurinig and          and 0Tl.  Others will reduce atnff throtigh                                     enterprises reduced
enterprise rehabilitation                     liquidation anl attrition.  SONFLEC to make                                     - EHN (from 400 to 320)
manpower study that may renult in further                                       - SOMIR (90)
reductiona                                                                     - SONADER (200)
- OTH (from 200 to 14)
improvement to PK Billings   1.   Improvement to necounting syatems                project neriod; part of action plans for EN.           Min. Plan/enterprises  actions underway at
and Collectiona                                                                    SONILEC anti OPT; alao underwny In banking sector                               SONELEC; to start In EKN
and OPT In 1985
2.   enforcement of strict collection              Qnarterly report on progresa in reducing               Mn. Plan/enterprisee  First quarterly report
procedures                                    uncollected bills                                                               in July 1985



Accounting Improvements         1.   adoption of national accounting plan           Plan adopted in 1983.  All public enterpriess to   Hin, Finance                   - plan preparation and
comply by and 1985                                                               implementation with
UNDP/ILO asaistance
2.   adoption of sectoral accounting plan           Studies undervay to be completed by end 1985.           Min. Finance              - plan preparation and
Covernment approval by mid-1986                                                  implementation with
UNDP|ILO assiatance
3.   development of standard budget practicen   Study to be carried out by mid-1986 within                  Hin. Plan/Min.            - support to be provided
project, to be implemented for 1987 fiscal year    Finance                       under projecti draft
terms of reference
prepared and revieved by
Bank
4.   replacemant of "Agent Comptable" with          Change appproved In February 1984                       Min. Plan/Hin.            - part of now PE lawl
Chief Accountant as direct employee of                                                                 Finance                  accountants have changed
PGœ                                                                                                                             status
5.   training of 40 qualified accountnnts            training program started In October 1984 for 3         CFPP/IIO                  - training of 40
yeara                                                                            accountants part of
emall scale industry
project support to
Mauritania; priority to
PEa and Bank financed
projects
Review and Limits to PE         1.   moratorium on creation of new PE. except   Council of Mintaters approved In November 1983              Min. Plan                 - prior consultation
Inveatments                                                                                                                                                           Investment Program
extraordinary with
IDA to be agreed to
as part of general
economic recovery
2.   approval by Council of Hinisters of major  Council of Ministers approved in November 1983              Min. Plan                 - procedures in place
investments; subject to feasibility
atudies
3.   prior consultation wtth IDA of major           project-pertod                                          Min. Plan/enterprises  - condition of credit
investnents by EIN, OPT and SONELEC                                                                                             and project agreements
Creation of Central PE          1.   astabliahment of CRSP in Hinistry of Plan  creation decree approved by the President In June  Win. Plan                          - director appointed In
Policy Unit and PE units in                                                          1984; staffing underway                                                          August 1984
Technical Hinistries
2.   establishment of unite in technical             1985                                                   Min Plan/Technical        - action not yet ntarted   a I
ministries                                                                                             Minilatriec         



- 48 -
Annex 1-3
Page 1 of 3
MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
FIRST-PHASE SECTOR RESTRUCTURING
(30 Industrial Enterprises)
Enterprise                Decision            Timetable              Status
SONELEC                  rehabilitate             1984-88        1st phase underway as
(electricity and                                                part of project (see
water supply)                                                    Action Plan, Annex
2-2)
OPT (post and            rehabilitate             1985-86       short-term emergency
telecommunications)                                             rehabilitation
measures to be
implemented as part of
project; full
rehabilitation plan to
be prepared (see
Action Plan, Annex
2-5)
EN (port)               rehabilitate             1984-87       part of project; new
port to operate in
1987 (See Action Plan,
Annex 2-4)
MAFCO (fishing)          liquidate                1984           factory closed,
liquidation action
underway
SKTH  (hotel)            liquidate                1984-85       Hotel closed,
liquidation action
underway
ENAJ (youth              liquidate                1984          completed
organization)
ONC (cinema)             privatize with           1984          sale completed
Government minority
SOMIR (refinery)         close/privatize          1984-85       operations ceased;
search for private
j                                             investor underway



- 49 -
Annex 1-3
Page 2 of 3
SNC (textile)            privatize                1984-85        search for partners
underway;
privatization expected
to be completed by
end-1985
SOMACAT (transit)        merged with SONIMEX      1984           merger completed
Ferme M'Pourie           privatize                1984-1989      to be gradually sold
(state farm)                                                     to farmers now working
lan.d
Projet Sucre (sugar      close/privatize          1984-1985      sugar refinery closed;
refinery and                                                     search for private
processing plants)                                               investor underway for
sugar processing
SOCOGIM (housing         reorganize; l'imt        1984-87        construction
construction and         operations to                           activities phased-out
management)              housing management
PHARMARIM (pharmacy      break up monopoly        1984           private enterprise
retail and               and allow private                       providing competition
wholesale)               sector competition                      since early 1984
5.CPP (gasoline         reorganize; reduce       1985           number of retail
retail)                  scope of operations                     outlets reduced in
early 1984; financial
restructuring In 1985;
rehabilitation to be
considered later
OCO (stadium)            transfer to district    1984            Completed
Government
OMO (religious           converted from           1984           Completed
organization)            enterprise to EPAP;
Government subsidy
eliminated
OMRG (geological         convert from public      1984           Completed
research)                enterprise to EPAP
CNEA (renewable          convert to               1984           Completed
energy research)         Government service
SNDM (iron ore)          rehabilitate             1985-88        discussions underway
with Bank and other
cofinanciers



- 50 -
Annex 1-3
Page 3 of 3
SONADER                  rehabilitate; limit      1984-86        agreement reached with
(agriculture/rural       operations                             Bank and other donors
development)                                                     on rehabilitation
plan; selling-off of
construction branch
underway; financing
for rehabilitation
being sought
Port Autonome de         reorganize               -              diagnostic study by
Nouadhibou (port)                                                CCCE underway; no
action anticipated
OTM (rug making)         rehabilitate             1984-88        rehabilitation
underway with
financing from IDA,
small scale industry
project (Cr. 888-MAU)
SONIMEX                  reorganize               1984-86        diagnosis completed
(import/export                                                  and transport
company)                                                         activities privatized
--TPN (urban             rehabilitate,            1985-86        financial study
transport)               possibly in joint                       on-going to establish
venture with                            tariffs
private partner
Air Mauritanie           retain as public         -              diagnosis and
(airline)               enterprise                              rehabilitation plan to
be prepared in 1986,
possibly with project
funds
SOMECOB (livestock       Additional studies       1986-87        studies to be done
marketing)               required                                under project by
December 1986 for
decision by mid-1987
SHAR (insurance)         Additional studies       1986-87        studies to be done
required                               under project by
December 1986 for
decision by mid-1987
CNORE (training for      retain as public         -              snall operation with
handicapped)             enterprise                             no major problems
LITP (construction       retain as public                       msall operation with
research)                enterprise                             no major problems



- 51 -
Annex 2-1
Page 1 of 3
MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
SONELEC: FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
A.   Past Financial Performance
1.        The present state of SONELEC's accounting system and practices does
not permit the company to produce financial records that can be considered
reliable. It is very likely that SONELEC's annual financial statements (as
summarized below) have tended to overstate its profitability and assets,
resulting in a more optimistic picture of its financial performance than that
actually achieved.
2.        The following table summarizes the salient features of SONELEC's
financial results for the period 1978 to 1983. Bearing in mind the
weaknesses in these figures, the table shows that SONELEC's profitability has
been poor (losses were experienced in five out of six years).
Summary of SONELEC's
Financial Performance
(UN'million)
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982       1983
(Est.)   (Est.)
Average Revenues (Est.)
electricity3 (M/kwh)           na       8.6    10.2    10.6    11.9       na
water (UN/rm)                  na      23.5    23.4    26.9    31.3       na
Total Revenues                   475      602     635     805   1,960    1,012
Operating Cost excl. interest   435       624     721     732      952      888
Operating Ratio                   .92    1.04    1.14       .91     .99     .88
Rate of Return (%)              -0.6    -3.1    -3.1      2.7   -29.4    -0.3
Interest                          45       50      43      39       37  b/   35
Net Income (before tax) a/        -9      -77     -92       77    - 577 -  -116
a/ Includes non-operating income
b/ After provisions of UN 517 million



- 52 -
Annex 2-1
Page 2 of 3
B.   Future Financial Prospects
3.        Projections of SONELEC's financial performance through 1993 are
shown provided in the Project File (Item 1, Appendix 1). These projections
indicate that SONELEC's profitability should improve in the period if tariffs
are increased to compensate for increased costs, operating costs are cut and
operational efficiency improved. Based on a rough allocation of costs, it
appears that electricity revenues at present do not cover fully allocated
costs (loss estimated at about 5%) while water revenues likely result in a
before tax profit margin of about 7-8%. According to financial projections
of SONELEC's future financial performance, an increase of at least 16% in
average tariffs would be required to improve SONELEC's liquidity position in
1985 1/ in order for SONELEC to support a reasonable share of new investments
and to service its debts. In subsequent years, additional increases will
still be required at least to compensate for increased costs.  SONELEC's
working capital position, nevertheless,  is not expected  to improve
substantially until the early 1990s.
4.        The following table summarizes the key features of SONELEC's
financial projections assuming an increase in tariffs of 16% in 1985 followed
by increases to reflect inflation up to 1987. In 1988, it is projected that
a real increase of about 10% may be required. The forecast also assumed that
SONELEC will undertake cost cutting and other measures as follows:
-    limit its investment program in 1985-89 to no more than UM 4.5
billion (US$56 million);
-    reduce its labor force by 10% (i.e.. about 60 employees);
-    reduce excessive overtime by the equivalent of 7% of total wages
and salaries (about UM 13 million);
-    increase technical efficiency of its water system to 60% and its
electricity system to 88%;
-    reduce gas-oil consumption to an average of 250 g/kwh in
Nouakchott, 230 g/kwh in Nouadhibou and 270 g/kwh in secondary
centers (until the conversion to fuel oil takes place).
In addition, SONELEC has obtained waiver on taxes on fuel consumption as well
as income tax and other miscellaneous taxes.
1/   Including the effects of the recent devaluation.



- 53 -
Annex 2-1
Page 3 of 3
Summary of SONELEC's
Financial Projections
(UM' Million)
1984      1985       1986      1987       1988      1989
Average Revenue
electricity (UK/mwh)        12.7       14.7       16.1      17.5       21.0     22.9
water (UM/m9)                35.0      40.1       44.3       57.8      63.0      68.7
Total Revenues                  953      1253       1715       1948      2481      2895
Operating Cost
(excl. interest)              1058       1209       1472      1610       1972     2291
Operating Ratio                1.11      0.96       0.86      0.79       0.79      0.79
Rate of Return a/ ()           - 8        - 3          5          5         8         8
Interest                         66       108        152       238        294       318
Net Income (before tax)      - 171       - 63         91        100       216       286
Net Internal
Cash Generation b/            - 62         45        144        161       276       369
a/ On non-revalued fixed assets in operation.
I/ After debt service.
WAPPE
March 1985



KAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                                oe
SONELEC: ACTI(ON PLAN
Activity                                                   Timetable                                         Expected output/Taraet
A. Institutional Framework
- SONLEC should undertake the folloving reforms to its legal                    - March 31, 1986                       - new lava enacted as appropriate
structure:
- transfer of all water and electricity assets to SONEIEC
- enforcement of monopoly rights for electricity
distribution and production
- confirmation of SONELEC's resp.nsib!lity for sewerage
operations
- statement of SONELEC's rights and duties via the public
- changes to Board of Directors
- clarification of financial autollomy
- establishment of water code                                                   - June 30, 1985                        - new low enacted as appropriate
B. Improvements to Billings and Collections
- analysis of customer's accounts and provision against bad                     - December 31, 1984 to                 - reduction of 502 in arrears from current levels of one
debts                                                                           June 30, 1986                          year'. sales
- development of regular program of meter inspection, repair
and replacement
- program of action to collect arrears including cute in
service
C. Staffing and Organization
- adoption of new organization structure to increase                            - June 1985                            - new organization chart
separation of water and electricity operations end to enhance
accountability
- review of current establishment and staffing needs                            - July 1985                            - rationalization of SONELEC's present staffing levels;
especially for force account operations. sewerage operations                                                           reduce labor force by 101 by end December 1985.  Manpower
and middle management levels                                                                                           plan to be approved by July 31, 1985
- preparation of a training and recruitment program reflecting                  - August 31, 1985                      - training plans to be carried out through 1986 and 1987
those needs



D. Management Information Systmes
- development of improved (couputerized) information systems                 - January 1985 to June               - operational information system generating timely data in
particularly for:                                                            1986                                 identified areas
- customar accounts
- Inventory and stock control
- supplier accounts
- connections
- advance paymnts
- technical efficiency and output
- fuel consueption
- separation of vater and electricity accenents
F. Accounting, Tariffs and Finance Polictes
- development of accounting system to allocate costs                         - January 1986 to                    - clear principles for separation of accounts (see HIS
separately to water anJ electricity opeationa                                December 1986                        above)
- detailed study to examine:                                                 - January 19R7-June 1987
*x-factory costs to determine cost of electricity
operations
* analysis of client accounts In order to assess revenue
generation by type of client, location, etc.
*  development of appropriJte tariff policy takinR into                                                       - proposals for tariff policy to be approved by November
account above client and cost analysts and longer tern                                                     3C, 1986
investment program
- application of new tariff structure                                        - December 31, 1987                  - nea  tariff schedule effective January 1. 1988
7. Electricity and Water Operations
- SONELEC indertake a program of operating improvements                      - December 1984 through              - increase in technical operating efficiency of
Including:                                                                   1986                                 electricity system to 882 overall for system and 601
- preparation of physical plane and documents of SONELEC's                                                     overall for vater by 1987
systems
- establish appropriate poticies and preparation of
appropriate work procedures, manuals and other documents
for routine operations and mintenance activity
- establishment of necessary stock control procedures
and policies
- upgrading of physical capability as a result of
rehabilitation of existing facilities under project



- 56 -
Annex 2-3
Page 1 of 2
MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
EMN: FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND PROSPECTS
A.   Past Financial Performance
1.        EMN's financial results for the 1977 and 1983 period are summarized
in the following table. It should be noted that these results have not been
audited and probably do not reflect accurately EMN's financial position. In
particular, there has been under-reporting of EMN's interest expenses,
provisions, taxes and depreciation charges and no based for the valuation of
stocks, which generally result in an overstatement of EMN's net profits.
Summarv of EMN's Financial Performance
(UM' Million)
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982    1983
(est)
Traffic ('000 tonnes)                  245    220    210    310    325       320
Average revenues (UM/tonne)            574    749    706    651    547        na
Total revenues                         149    179    160    217    231        na
Operating costs (excl. interest)       168    198    173    210    239        na
Operating Ratio                       1.13   1.11   1.08    .97   1.03        na
Rate of return (%)                      -7    -10       1      1     -6       na
Interest                                 5      6       8      6      7       na
Net income (before taxes)              -28    -38      -5      3    -21    -130
B. Future Financial Prospects
2.        EMN's prospects for improving its financial performance hinge on
two key factors: productivity improvements to be realized under the project
(staff reductions, elimination of overtime, improved traffic recording and
billing) and tariff increases. The financial projections contained in the
Project File (Item 1, File) show that, with the changes proposed under the
project, EMN can be profitable especially if productivity can be improved and
tariffs adjusted.  EMN has agreed to undertake a program of cost cutting
including the following measures:
-    reduce its labor force to 250 by end December 1985
-    reduce excessive overtime payments by UK 4 million annually



- 57 -
Annex 2.3
Page 2 of 2
-    reduce fuel consumption by UM 2-3 million annual through better
controls.
Key indicators of EMN's projected financial performance are summarized below.
It should be noted that if EMN's traffic does not stay at current high levels
(i.e., a fall in food aid takes place in 1986), an increase of about 65Z in
the tariff applicable to rice and other foodstuffs would be necessary in
order for EMN to meet its target operating ratio of 65% in 1986.
Summary of EMN's Financial Forecast
(UM' 000,000)
1984         1985          1986         1987
(provisional)
Traffic ('000 tonnes)                370           377           354         360
Average revenue (UM/tonne)           595           742           940         1005
Total revenue                        220           280           333         363
Operating costs
(excluding interest)               181          198           219          233
Operating ratio                     0.82           .71           .66          .64
Interest                              18            21            37          45
Net income (before taxes)             21            61            76          85
Net return on assets (%)               5            12            11           12
Debt service ratio                   3.7           2.3           2.5         2.8
Debt-equity ratio                    4.9           4.6           3.8         2.6
WAPPE
March 1985



HAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHlNICAL ASSISTANCF AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
fJNI ACTION PLAN
Activity                                                  Timetable                                        Expected Output/Target
A. Inotitutional Framevork
- transfer of new port operations to EH  upon completion                       - six months after                    - cloar right for FHN to operate new portl clarification
completion (December                  of role of old port via-a-vis new facilities
1987)
B. Staffing and Organization
- reduction of labor force to 250 from 318                                     - end Decomber 1985                   - reduction of labor coats by UM 18 million
- reorganization of E   Into four departments, each headed by                  - completed                           - rationalization of existing functione and specific
qualified directorl including "capitainery" for port                                                                 assignment of responsibility for port operations
operations
- training of counterparte and other staff according to agreed                 - plan to be prepared                 - formal and on-the-job training program for Department
program covering:                                                              June 30. 1985 for                     directors (4 months each), Intermediate staff. and skilled
- accounting                                                                implementation over                   labor
- waintenance                                                               1985-87
- port oporationa
- general administration
C. Management Information Systems
- development of appropriate Information systems fort                                                                - Implementation of coherent and integrated informAtion
- general ledger accounting applications                                   - December 1985                        systems covering all aspects of IEN's operations
- statistical systems for port operatlons and cargo                         - Decombor 1985
handling
- systems for personnel (salaries, pereonnel information),                 - December 1985
supplies and stock
- budget and cost accounting systems                                       - June 1986
- corporate planning (uedium-term)                                          - June 1986
D. Accounting, Tariffs and Financial Policy
- preparation of interim tariff policy based on financial                      - June 1986                           - astablish basis for tariff structure over short term
objectives, costs and operating prospects                                                                            awaittng operation of new port
- adoption of a new tariff structure based on the cost of                      - March 1987                          - adoption of cost-related tariff structure
EDNO' oporations by type of merchandise and method of
operation



E. Port Operations
- institute program of productivity improvements by batter                      - December 1984 uo                     - targets for 1987 establiahedi
management, higher equipment availability, Improved planning                    December 1987                              - Increase productivlty per shift from 500 t to 650 t
and ship arrival                                                                                                             for ships at an'chor; 600 t to 150 C for ships at
berth
- reduce ship waiting time to about rero
- reduce mrerandise storage time to 12 days
- lncrease cargo equipment availability to e02
I iI



- 60 -
Annex 2-5
Page 1 of 2
MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
OPT: FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
A.  Past Financial Performance
1.        In considering this section, it should be kept in mind that OPT's
accounts have never been audited. Furthermore, inadequate provision has been
made for bad debts, which tends to overstate actual financial performance.
2.        OPT's consolidated financial performance over the period 1977-1981
has been mixed. During the period 1977-1979, revenues and expenses were
virtually stagnant, producing offsetting profits and losses. As a result of
two consecutive tariff increases, gross revenues and net profits rose
considerably in 1980 and 1981. A summary of OPT's key financial indicators
follows:
Key Financial Indicators
FY ending December 31           1977      1978     1979     1980      1981
Operating revenues (UM million)       271       268      276      326       387
Operating expenses (UM million)       267       274      278      282       313
Operating ratio (Z)                    99       102      101       87        81
Rate of return a/ (Z)                 1.1      -1.3     -0.3      6.6      10.9
Current ratio (times)                 0.9       0.9      0.9      0.9       0.8
Debt/equity ratio                   55/54    52148    50/50    42/58    47153
Net internal cash generation b/        13         1       23       104       38
Debt service coverage (times)         1.4       1.0      2.0       2.3      2.9
al On average net fixed assets in operation.
b/ As a percentage of construction -requirements and investments.
B.   Future Financial Prospects
3.        Some analysis has been undertaken by OPT, FAC and UNDP/UIT to
assess the impact of OPT's new investments on its future financial position.
These studies indicate that in the short-term OPT's cash position will be
adversely affected, particularly as a result of the debt service for the



- 61 -
Annex 2-5
Page 2 of 2
Station A investment and the costs of expatriate technical advisors needed to
run the new station. Depending on the scenario, these cash deficits could
persist until the early 1990s. A more comprehensive study is needed to
refine these projections and prepare an integrated financial forecast. This
will be carried out as part of the preparation of a medium-term
rehabilitation plan, proposed under the project.
WAPPE
November 1984



MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAI ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
OPT: ACTION PLAN
Activity                                                   Timetable                                         Expected Output/Target
A. Inatitutional Framework
- clarify OPT'a responeibility and role vie-a-vie management                    - March 31, 1986                       - legal baels estab  ibed for OPT's umnagement to operate
of National Savinge Bank (NSM)                                                                                         NSB
- provide officiji recognition of OPTn'  training center                        - March 31, 1986                       - reopening of OPT'e training center and official
recognition of training certificate
D. Staffing and Organization
- creation of required organization atructuree for:                             - January 1986                         - strengthen exieting accounting function and add to it,
- general accounting                                                                                                as appropriate, to operate new systes
- client accounts
- coet Accounting
- data processing
- recruit and!or redeploy etaff to fill poete in nev                            - March 1986
structures
- prepared training program and train ataff In identified                       - June 1986 through 1987
areas (accounting, data procesaing, etc.)
C. Management Information Systeas
- developmeunt of appropriate computerized information systems                  - March 1985 to December               - implementation of appropriate system aa specified
for following applications:                                                     1986
general ledger
- client accounts aging and billings
- Inventory and stock control
- coat accounting (aeparetton of poet and telecommunication
account a)
- payroll and personnel mAnagement
- operational monitoring
- produce separated accounta for poet and                                    - March 1988                           - revised statement of accounts
tslecoimunications
D. Telecoinunicatione Operations
- discuesion of diagnostic report with IDA to agree to short                    - April 1985
tern action plan
- June 1985 - to be
- Implementation of those reco msendationa                                      determined



- 63 -
Annex 3-1
MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
CRSP: TERMS OF REFERENCE



- 64 -                        ANNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 5
CELLULE DE REHABILITATION DU SECTEUR PARAPUBLIC (CRSP)
3. Pour appliquer sa strategie de redressement des E.P., le
Couvernement a dicid6 la creation, au sein du Ministere du
Plan, d'une "Cellule de Rehabilitation du Secteur Parapublic".
4. La CRSP assurera les fonctions suivantes :
a) Dlanification strateqicque du secteur parapublic. I1
s'agit de concevoir et de proposer au Couvernement la strategie
de r6habiLitation du secteur parapublic, puis d'en coordonner
la mise en oeuvre. En particulier, la CRSP e1abore la politique
de maintien, cession et liquidation des E.P. a soumettre au
Gouvernement. Elle propose une liste prioritaire d'entreprises a
rehabiliter et les strategies alternatives concernant les liqui-
dations et les cessions. Elle verifie que les activites et les
investissements des E.P. a conserver dans le secteur  s'inscrivent
dans le p'lan de developpement mauritanien et les politiques sec-
torielles qui y sont definies. Elle verifie en particulier que
les nouveaux investissements ont fait 1'obJet d'etudes de facti-
bilite et de rentabilit6 suffisantes. ;
b) amelioration du cadre institutionnel et renlementaire
La CRSP d6finit, programme et coordonne les actions visant a
am6liorer le cadre institutionnel et r6glementaire concernant
notamment :
- les organes deliberants et ex6cutifs,
- les relations entre les organes de tutelle et les E.P,
- les organes de controle,
- la tarification, les regimes fiscaux et douaniers, Ia
reglementation des marches, les salaires et primes,
la gestion des personnels.
Dans ces differents domaines, la CRSP propose au Gouvernement les
mesures et reformes appropriees et revise ou etablit les textes
reglementaires et legislatifs correspondants.
c) Processus de rehabilitation. La CRSP initie, coordonne
et controie le processus de rehabilitation des entreprises mainte-
nues dans le secteur parapublic, dans ses differentes phases :
diagnostic, e1aboration des plans de redressemen., negociation
des contrats-programmes, mise en oeuvre (voir Annexe 1).
Elle coordonne notamment la mise en place des programmes de reha-
bilitation d'urgence de la SONELEC et de 1'EMN.
Elle designe les experts-coordinateurs pour les entreprises a
rehabiliter et coordonne le recrutement de !'assistance technique
interne a ces entreprises.
d) Svsteme d'informations. Elle concoit et met en place un
systeme d'informatfons sur le secteur parapublic, oriente vers
la mesure de performances. Afin dten assurer la fiabilit6, notanment
celle des etats financiers, elle coordonne les actions d'amelio-
ration ou de mise en place des procedures comptables et budg&taires
et elle fait realiser des audits annuels des entreprises en cours
de rehabilitation. Elle definit d'un commun accord avec les entre-
prises les criteres de performance a appliquer dans chaque cas.



- 65 -                        Annex 3-1
Page 2 of 5
e) Suivi macroeconomique. Elle assure le suivi macroeco-
nomique du secteur ct prepare les agregats necessaires a la
comptabilit6 nationale en relation avec les services concernes
des Ministeres du Plan et des Finances.
f) Formation. Elle coordonne l'claboration et la mise en
oeuvre d'une politique concrete et efficace de formation de cadres
des entreprises publiques, en particulier dans le domaine de la
comptabilite et celui de la gestion utilisant si possible les
moyens existants dans le pays.
g) Etudes. Elle definit, planifle et supervise les etudes de
base ou d'accompagnement necessaires a la definition et a la mise
en oeuvre de la politique de rehabilitation, notamment pour les
six composantes decrites ci-dessus. Elle recrute 1'assistance
technique necessaire a la realisation de ces etudes. Elle analyse
et met en oeuvre les recommandations des etudes.
h Gestion du prolet de la Bangue. La CRSP gere le projet
d'assistance aux entreprises publiques.
STRUCTURES DE LA CRSP
5. La cellule sera dirigee par une personnalite mauritanienne de
haut rang qui sera en mame temps le Directeur du Projet. Ce
dernier aura un Conseiller Principal expatrie qui aidera a rea-
liser les differentes taches et missions assignees a la CRSP et
a encadrer, au plan technique, les cadres nationaux affectes a la
cellule. Le Directeur sera assiste, au plan administratif, de deux
assistants charges notamment de la gestion des consultants et de la
comptabllite du projet (voir organigramme en Annexe 2). Les roles
des cadres sont decrits ci-dessous :
a) Cadre charJi des_problimes institutionnels et r_ole-
mentaires : I1 a la charge de la coordination et du suivi des
travaux visant a ameliorer le cadre institutionnel et reglementaire.
En particulier, il collabore aux etudes sur ce sujet avec les
consultants exterieurs. I1 participe aux grcupes de travail charges
de la redaction des textes et en coordonne le processus de promul-
gation. 11 conseille, dans ses domaines de competence, les parties
impliqu6es dans le processus de rehabilitation des entreprises,
notamment pour l'elaboration des contrats-programmes. I1 traite les
problemes d'ordre juridique et r6glementaire lies aux liquidations,
cessions et restructurations d'entreprises publiques.
b) Cadre charae du redressement des entreprises Publioues.
La responsabilite de ce cadre est double. I1 est charge d'une part
de coordonner les etudes necessaires a la preparation des decisions
strat6giques du Couvernement : liquidations, fusions, cessions, ...
Ces etudes pourront concerner soit des entreprises individuelles,
soit des sous-secteurs. D'autre part, 11 est charge de la mise en
place et de la coordination du processus de r6habilitation des
entreprises devant faire l'objet d'un redressement au cours de la
premiere phase du projet, clest-a-dire SONELEC et EMN, ou de la
seconde phase, c'st-a-dire cinq entreprises environ, dont l'OPT.
Dans le cadre du processus de r6habilitatlon des entreprises, il
travaillera en etroite collaboration avec les `experts-coordina-
teurs" et les membres des "comit6s ad hoc" (voir le processus de
rehabilitation en Annexe 1).



- 66 -                       ANNEX 3-1
rage 3 ot 5
11 coordonne le suivi de realisation.et l'evaluation des perfor-
mances. Sur ce point, 11 collabore avec le cadre charge du
systeme d'information.
c) Cadre charqe du systime d'information. I1 est charge
de definir et de mettre en place un systeme d'information sur les
E.P, oriente vers la mesure de performances techniques, financieres
et economiques.
I1 assure aussi avec la DTAF la coordination des actions
de normalisation et d'amelioration des procedures budgetaires et
comptables. A plus court terme, il coordonne le travail sur le
probleme des dettes et creances reciproques entre l'Etat et les
E.P Entin, il prepare, en relation avec les services concernes du
plan, les syntheses et agregats macro-economiques relatifs au
secteur parapublic.
d) Cadre charge de la formation. II est charge de partici-
per a l'etude des besoins en formation a la gestion et a la compta-
bilite et a la conception d'une politique de formation : nature
des programmes, duree, methodes pedagogiques, identification des
organismes nationaux et etrangers pouvant accueillir des stagiaires
mauritaniens ou realiser des programmes speciaux de formation. Par
ailleurs, il devra programmer, coordonner et 6valuer l'ensemble dcs
actions de formation. II travaillera en etroite collaboration avec
les organismes de formation nationaux et les entreprises.
FONCTIONS DU CONSEILLER PRINCIPAL DE LA CRSP
6. Le Conseiller Principal assure la coordination technique de la
cellule, conseille et seconde le Directeur sur tous les aspects
de 1'ex6cution du projet. II a les responsabilites suivantes
a) soutien qlooal du proJet
i) II aide le DIrecteur pour toutes les activites de
planification et d'administration. A cet effet, il contribue a
1'elaboration et au suivi du programme de travail, a l'elaboration
des procedures administratives du projet, au paiement des consul-
tants et des services, a la preparation des rapports periodiques
destines as la Banque, etc...
ii) II fournit au Directeur le soutien administratif pour
selectionner les consultants necessaires au cours de l'ex6cution
du projet, notamment pour l'execution des etudes. En tout etat de
cause, le choix final des consultants revient au Ministre du Plan
et de l'Amenagement du Territoire. Toutes les nomminations de
consultants et leurs conditions d'emplois sont subordonnees a
l'approbation finale de la Banque.
b) Coordination technique du oroiet; Scus l'autcrite du
Directeur, le Conseiller Principal effectue les taches suivantes
i) il programme, coordonne et anine les activites des
cadres et des consultants charges des etudes ;
ii) il redige, ou finalise les termes de reference des
itudes en concertation avec les cadres. Ces termes de reference
devront etre approuves par la Banque.



- 67 -                       Annex 3-1
Page 4 of 5
ill) il veille au contr8le de qualit' des activitis du
projet, supervise et evalue les rapports d'activites periodiques,
notamment ceux r6diges par les consultants ;
iv) iI fournit.au Directeur des conseils d'ordre tech-
nique sur les problemes pouvant se poser au cours de l'executlon du
projet concernant la strategie de redressement du secteur parapublic
et notamment sur les problmes institutionnels (para. 5)
v) 11 participe directement a l&'laboration de la stra-
tigie du portefeuille et notamment au choix des entreprises a reha-
biliter.
c) R6habilitation des entreprises publiques : Le Conseiller
Principal est charge, avec l'assistance du cadre concerne, de pla-
nifier, coordonner et animer la rehabilitation des entreprises
choisies, pendnat la duree du projet. Son action intervient dans le
cadre d'un processus de rehabilitation dont les differentes phases
sont decrites a l'annexe 2. Au cours de la rehabilitation d'une entrc-
prise, iI a les responsabilit6s suivantes :
i) il collabore, avec Itentreprise a redresser, a la
selection et au recrutement de l'expert-coordinateur, a l'elaboration
de son mandat et a la redaction de son contrat. Ceux-ci seront soumis
a l'approbation de la Banque
i   iI suit la phase de diagnostic et l'elaboration dui
plan de redressement global. II apporte ses conseils et l'appui de
la cellule sur le plan methodologique et sur les questions sectorielle
et institutionnelles ;
iii) a partir du diagnostic et du plan de redressement
global, il finalise avec l'entreprise et i'expert-coordinateur la
nature et le volume de l'assistance Zechnique interne necessaire. II
aide le Directeur C6neral de l'entreprl-e a identifier une firme
itrangere "Ju'rnelle" operant dans le meme secteur et capable de four-
nir l'assistance technique interne a l'entreprise. Pour prgserver
l'independance respective de l'assistance technique intern-. et de de
l'expert-coordinateur, ce dernier ve pourra pas appartenir a l'entre-
prise jumelle. II aide l'entreprise a 6laborer les mandats et a
n4gocier les contrats des consultants. Le choix des consultants de
l'entreprise, les mandats et les contrats definitifs seront subordon-
nes a l'approbation de la Banque.
iv) I1 participe a la mise en place du "Comite ad hoc"
et coordonne les discussions et la negociation du plan de redressement
global. II participe a la redaction du plan d'ection.
v) II apprecie le plan de redressement detaille propos6
par l'entreprise et supervise et coordonne l'elaboration du contrat-
programme. En ce qui concerne ce dernier, iI participe aux reunions
avec l'entreprise, ses consultants internes et les membres du Comite
ad hoc concernes ainsi qu'a la redaction des differents documents
intermediaires. II participe notamment a la definition des objectifs
chiffr6s, au choix des criteres de performance et a l'6laboration des
procedures de suivi et contr6le. II veille en outre a l'homog6n6it4
des methodes utilisees pour les differentes entreprises.



-68-                          ANNEX 3-1
Page 5 of 5
vi) I1 prepare les eliments necessaires pour les negociations
du contrat-programme.
vii) I1 coordonne la mise en oeuvre du contrat-programme. II
s'assure notamment que les rapports de suivi sont rediges regulire-
ment par I'entreprise.
11 evalue, avec l'expert-coordinateur, les resultats et les
performances de l'entreprise. Il se tient informe des difficult6s
rencontrees par cette derniere, notamment sur le plan institutionnel
et reglementaire, et propose des solutions realistes. I1 redige
periodiquement, a l'intention du Directeur, des notes de synthese sur
les progres effectues et sur les difficultes rencontrees.
ETUDES DE BASE
7. Une partie importante du programme de travail de la CRSP compor-
tera une serie d'etudes gen6rales ayant pour objet d'examiner les
problemes fondamentaux qui se posent au secteur parapublic et de
proposer des structures, reglementations, procedures ameliorees pour
aider le Couvernement a surmonter ces probl'emes. La CRSP sera
6galement appelee, dans le cadre de ses activites, a proceder a
des analyses techniques, etides de faisabilit6, etudes sectorielles
avant de prendre des decisions touchant un secteur ou une entreprise
particuliere.
PROFILS DES CADRES DE LA CRSP
Les quatre cadres de la CRSP devront etre diplomes de l'en-
seignement superieur (minimum niveau licence). Ils devront avoir une
experience professionnelle d'au moins cinq ans, acquise dans des
entreprises, banques ou des services publics financiers ou economiques.
Le premier cadre aura une formation de juriste et sera un
specialiste en droit public et droit des affaires.
Le second cadre pourra avoir une formation initiale technique ou en
economie-gestion. II devra avoir une experience professionnelle acquisc
a un poste de direction dans une grande entreprise.
Le troisieme cadre sera un economiste-statisticien ayant une expe-
rience concrete en finances et comptabilit6.
Enfin, le quatrieme cadre sera un specialiste en gestion des ressou'rces
humaines. II aura une experience concrete de l'e'laboration de politicnue
de formation dans; ne grande entreprise.
WAPPE
August 1984



- 69 -
Annex 3-2
Page 1 of 4
MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
THE REHABILITATION PROCESS
1.        One of the CRSP's most important functions, and one that concerns
the Unit most directly, is rehabilitation of the PEs in the order of priority
decided by the Government.   Success in this activity calls for the
implementation of a precisely defined process which must be coordinaZed by
the CRSP.  An outline of the general process for undertaking an enterprise
rehabilitation is given below:
A. Diagnosis, Recovery Plan, and Program Contract
2.        As the initial phase, the CRSP will recruit and make available to
the enterprise selected for rehabilitation a coordination expert who is
responsible, in close cooperation with the management of the PE (Enterprise
Team), for carrying out a general diagnostic study and proposing the broad
lines of a recovery plan. This expert will subsequently, in conjunction with
the enterprise, its ministries of tutelle and the CRSP, monitor the entire
rehabilitation process. The broad lines of the recovery plan are discussed
by an ad hoc committee whose composition is proposed by the CRSP and whose
members representing the supervising ministries and the enterprise will
monitor the process of rehabilitation of the enterprise on behalf of their
respective institutions. The CRSP will provide secretariat services for this
ad hoc committee. It is very important that the committee members, the
coordination expert and the enterprise team work together to ensure
continuity and efficiency of the rehabilitation process.
3.        Once a consensus has been reached on the broad lines of the
recovery plan, the enterprise and the CRSP draw up an action plan for the
eventual formulation and negotiation of a detailed recovery plan and a
program contract. This action plan contains:
(a) a list, in order of importance, of the problems to be solved;
(b) the identification of key personnel within the enterprise and other
authorities who will carry out the various actions, some of whom
may sit on the ad hoc committee;
(c) the documents to be prepared, with a provisional plan;



- 70 -
Annex 3-2
Page 2 of 4
(d) the timetable of actions to be carried out.
This action plan serves as a reference for all parties, particularly the
CRSP, for which it constitutes a management tool for monitoring and
coordinating the execution of this first phase.
4.        The next step is to prepare the detailed recovery plan and the
program contract. For this it may be necessary to use other specialists as
required, depending on the problems identified, in addition to the
coordination expert.   These will be selected by the enterprise in
consultation with the coordination expert and the CRSP. During this phase,
potential sources of finance will be consulted and kept informed.  The
enterprise will be responsible for drafting these documents for review by the
ad hoc committee and subsequent approval by the enterprise and ministries
concerned.
5.        While each recovery plan will obviously be specific to the
enterprise in question, it must necessarily specify precisely the financial
and the long-term technical assistance requirements.
6.        Upon completion, the detailed recovery plan must be approved by the
Board of Directors. It then becomes the subject of negotiation between the
enterprise and an Inter-Ministerial Committee convened by the Minister of
Planning and including at least the Supervisory Minister and the Minister of
Finance. Technical secretariat services for this are provided by the CRSP.
The detailed plan is also submitted to donors for comments. By this time,
provided the preparatory phase has been carried out correctly, no major
problems should remain and the negotiations should be straightforward. The
plan is then submitted to the Government for adoption.
7.        The program contract sets forth the Government's obligations with
respect to institutional and regulatory matters (particularly pricing,
taxation and social obligations) and also to financial commitments
(subsidies,  grants, guarantees,  etc.).   It also establishes the PE's
obligations with respect to goals, programs and Performance.  The major
institutional and regulatory issues, as described in the action plan, will be
discussed between the enterprise and the pertinent members of the ad hoc
committee. These discussions will culminate in "memoranda of understanding"
incorporated into the program contract.
8.        The entire program contract will be negotiated by the same
procedure as the recovery plan. It will be signed by the enterprise and the
Government.



- 71 -
Annex 3-2
Page 3 of 4
B. Implementation
9.        The CRSP has just as important a role to play during the
implementation phase as during the preparatory phase: that of monitoring
implementation of the recovery plan and the program contract. Monitoring is
based on two control charts appended to the plan and contract for review by
the Boards of Directors and the supervisory authorities, in accordance with
their normal procedure, and by the CRSP.  The review extends to the
obligations both of the enterprise and of the authorities. A monitoring
report, based on the control charts, forms an integral part of the standard
progress report drawn up for each Board of Directors meeting. This report.
together with the comments of the coordination expert, is transmitted to the
Supervisory Minister, as is customary, for review and comment and also to the
other members of the pertinent Inter-Ministerial Committee. At the same
time, the CRSP performs more detailed monitoring, ensuring in particular that
the decisions required for execution of the recovery plan are processed and
adopted in good time by the parties concerned (enterprises, ministries,
lending agencies, etc.).  If need be it "activates" the ad hoc committee.  In
the event of major difficulty, the Minister of Planning notifies the
Inter-Ministerial Committee or the Council of Ministers.
C. Revision of the Recovery Plan and the Program Contract
10.       In principle, the broad lines of the recovery plan are not subject
to revision except in special circumstances. However, some of the data in
figures (budget and financing plans, etc.) may be revised in step with
revision of the program contract.  The latter is subject to systematic annual
revision based on previous-year performance and any new circumstance that has
arisen within the enterprise or in its environment.
D. Developing the Process
11.       SONELEC and EMN have been selected as the first two enterprises to
undergo rehabilitation. For these two enterprises, diagnostic studies and
general recovery plans have already been prepared by two coordination experts
with the support of World Bank sector specialists. The technical assistance
teams have been recruited and both enterprises are ready to begin preparing
draft program contracts in collaboration with the concerned parties. Since
these will be the first program contracts to be prepared, additional
assistance will be provided to establish general procedures and to advise the
enterprises, CRSP and the supervising ministries on their roles.
12.       In this context, a consultant will be asked to carry out 'the
following tasks:



- 72 -
Annex 3-2
Page 4 of 4
(a) Since these two program contracts are the first ones, the
consultant will be required to explain their nature and role to the
enterprises, to their internal technical assistance teams, and to
the members of the "ad hoc committees". He will have to train the
Mauritanian Adviser responsible for rehabilitation of the PEs
within the CRSP.                               I
(b) At the technical level, he will be required, with the enterprises
and the coordination experts, to define the content of the program
contracts, to organize and direct the working groups on the various
problems and fix their responsibilities, and to assist in drafting
the intermediate documents.
More specifically, he will be required, among other things, working from the
recovery plans:
(a) to determine the obligations of the enterprises with respect
to programs, execution timetable, quantified goals, quantified
performance indicators, and monitoring procedures;
(b) to determine the obligations of the Government with respect to
tariffs,  taxation, miscellaneous regulations, management and
accounting autonomy, changes in statutes, controls and financing.
For this latter point he will have to take account of the loans
granted by the suppliers of funds, particularly IDA and CCCE;
(c)  after the draft programs have been discussed with the 'Project
Manager and the Chief Adviser and submitted to IDA, to assist in
the negotiation with the Inter-Ministerial Committee concerned, if
so requesced;
*d)  apart from the program contracts, to produce a report describing
the difficulties encountered during the course of preparation and
to make recommendations for improving the process.
WAPPE
November 1984



- 73 -
Annex 3-3
Page 1 of 5
MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF STUDIES AND ADVISORY SERVICES
A. Portfolio Strategy and Classification
1.        This is a matter of helping the CRSP to continue its review of the
classification of public enterprises (mainly public industrial and commercial
institution, and mixed-capital companies) into three main categories:
enterprises to be rehabilitated, to be privatized, and to be liquidated. The
consultant will be required to assist in refining a general and sectoral
methodology and a set of criteria for classification (strategic role, public
interest, economic and financial viability, etc.). He will then propose
alternative strategies for liquidation, transfer, merger, etc, at the
individual enterprise or sectoral level, as the restructuring progresses and
prepare a list of the main problems to be resolved (social, legal, financial,
institutional, regulatory, commercial, and so on) for each enterprise, to
recommend solutions, to identify the persons or agencies involved in the
restructuring and to draw up a provisional timetable of execution. Two
sectors and several enterprises pose special problems anc. may require the
services of sector specialists:
(i) SOMECOB (livestock marketing) and SMAR (insurance);
(ii) the fishing sector, with eight SEMs and the banking sector.
In addition a general overview of the strategy to follow in restructuring
EPAPs will also be undertaken.
B. Mutual Debts and Claims, and Budgetary Allocation of the
Government
2.        To the extent that this work is not yet complete, assistance will
be provided for preparing a statement of net claims and debts between the
Government and the PEs as of December 31, 1983 and updated annually. For any
disputed portions, the Government will have to decide upon the methods of
payment, authorizing offsetting as required. The balances after offsetting
can be settled either in a single payment or in installments. The consultant
will have to propose a methodology, train and motivate the working groups,
define the accounting and financial procedures, and propose methods of
negotiation of the amounts in dispute, as required. He will also have to



- 74 -
Annex 3-3
Page 2 of 5
help the administration to establish realistic budgets for its consumption of
water, electricity, telephone and transportation services and to monitor the
payment by Government of these amounts,. He will work in close collaboration
with the accounting services of the enterprises and the pertinent departments
of the Ministry of Finance.
C. Institutional Framework
3.        An important element in rehabilitation of the parapublic sector is
redefining the relationships between the Government and the PEs. The
Government has initiated action to this end, including revision of the basic
legal document governing the PEs. The task of the consultant is to conduct
an in-depth analysis of issues affecting the institutional framework of
specific enterprises and the sector as a whole as Identified during project
preparation and implementation, to redefine the roles and structures of the
various organs (supervisory, decision-making and control bodies). It further
includes participation in the drafting of texts (implementing decrees,
circulars, and so on) and initiating the process of implementation of the
reforms. The consultant will be assisted by the 14auritanian Adviser
responsible within the CRSP for dealing with institutional problems.
4.        The following are some of the areas of the present system that the
consultant may be asked to examine:
(a'  responsibilities and qualifications of the members of the
Board of Directors;
(b) autonomy of the Board and relationship with ministries of
tutelle;
(c) the procedures for appointment of directors, managers, and
supervisory staff;
(d) respective roles and responsibilities of various control bodies
(IGF, "Controleurs Financiers", Commissaires aux comptes");
te) the mission, structures, methods of operation and efficiency of the
control bodies (General Inspectorate of Finance (IGF), Financial
Controller, State Control Office);
(f) laws affecting the sector as a whole or individual enterprises.
5.        As a result of these investigations, the consultant would be asked
to propose measures in the areas of organization, regulation, procedures,
personnel and training, designed to:
(i) improve the capacity of the technical supervisory organs in
their role of orientation, planning, monitoring and



- 75 -
Annex 3-3
Page 3 of 5
supervision of the performance of the PEs, while reducing
their interference in management;
(ii) strengthen the role of the Board of Directors and
widen their composition to include representatives of industry
and banking;
(iii) improve the operations of the control bodies (Directorate
of Administrative and Financial Supervision (DTAF),
Financial Controller, particularly in the area of
conclusion of contracts, the IGF and the State Control
Office);
(iv) improve the legal basis for enterprises and the sector in
general.
D. Salary Structures
6.        The purpose of this study is to propose improvements to
Mauritania's present salary policies and structures of PE staffs, with the
objective of eliminating existing abuses and providing equitable and
competititve compensation for PEs, with adequate performance incentive. To
that end, the consultant will analyze the current legislation (labor code,
civil service statutes, and so on) relating to the public, parapublic and
private sectors. On the basis of a representative sample, he will analyze
the salary, bonus and fringe-benefit structures, in relation to post,
qualifications, training, responsibility, etc. He will then propose a
coherent and realistic wages and salary policy (particularly for management
staff) and structures (norms, guidelines, levels). This policy will have to
include a system of incentives linked to performance. Finally, he will assist
with drafting the necessary text and implementing the measures decided upon
by the Government.
E. Human Resource Development
7.        The purpose of this study is to identify the management training
needs of the personnel in the PEs, and then to propose a training and human
resource development policy for PEs. More specifically, the areas concerned
are operations management (in the production, inventory and procurement,
commercial, etc. areas), general management, and financial and accounting
management (financial planning, accounting and budgetary systems and
procedures, etc.).
8.        The consultant will first of all have to evaluate the needs by
means of questionnaires and interviews. He will then have to identify the



- 76 -
Aimex 3-3
Page 4 of 5
potential and the existing training methods. Finally, he will have to
propose a training policy specifying (a)the types of training to be provided,
the criteria for selection of personnel, the teaching methods and the
appropriate organizers (Mauritanian or foreign), (ii) a global course
program, priorities, target students and budget.
F. Planning and Budgeting Procedures
9.        The purpose of this study is to improve the budget procedures of
the PEs as a tool for internal management and for the monitoring and
supervision functioas exercised by the agencies concerned. The consultant
will have to work in close liaison with the DTAF, which undertakes
preparaticn of the budgetary nomenclatures based on the National Accounting
Plan and the Sectoral Plans. The consultant will be required first of all to
analyze the existing procedures, on the basis of a sample of enterprises:
cycle, timetable, responsibilities, budget content, adoption by the Boards of
Directors and the supervisory authorities, monitoring and control. Be will
analyze the main weaknesses and will propose recommendations for improvement.
He will propose a staff familiarization and training program. Together with
the DTAF he will draw up a manual of general procedures for use by the
enterprises and the monitoring and control bodies.
G. Information System
10.       The purpose of this study is to design and install the information
system needed by the supervisory and control bodies and the CRSP to enable
them to monitor and oversee the PEs. It is thus a matter of an information
system "texternal' to the enterprises, even though the information sources to
a large extent already exist in the enterprises. To be realistic the
information system will have to take account of the present situation of the
internal systems (e.g., accounting) of the PEs and the improvement programs
underway or to be undertaken under the present project. In this context, the
consultant will have to:
(a)  in agreement with the parties concerned, particularly DTAF and
CRSP, identify the information they require for the performance of
their functions, both for the PEs as a whole and for the PEs to be
rehabilitated;
(b) prepare a realistic inventory of the kinds of reliable data
available at present and those that can reasonably be expected to
become available. This could be done in collaboration with the
team responsible within the DTAF for accounting and budgetary
standardization;
(c) establish priority information needs and define the overall systems
requirements, phased as warranted;



- 77 -
Annex 3-3
Page 5 of 5
(d) propose the appropriate location of the information system, with
the aim of avoiding duplication and of clearly allocating
resporsibilities, setting out in particular the roles of DTAF and
CRSP;
(e)  establish data-gathering circu'ts, frequencies, and procedures and
develop the necessary systems and procedures;
(f) define the equipment (microcomputers) and the data-processing,
storage, retrieval and transmission procedures;
(g) define the number, qualifications, location and training of the
required personnel;
(h) establish an implementation program and monitor its executior.
The consultant will have to work pragmatically, taking account of
the existing situation. The system installed will be required to respond
rapidly to the most urgent needs and must have built-in development
potential.
WAPPE
November 1984



- 78 -
Annex 3-4
Page 1 of 3
MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
SONELEC: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
This proposed project component would consist of:
1.   Training.  Support  includes  class room training at institutes,
preferably in the West Africa Region, as well as on-the-job training (by the
technical assistance specialists) in the technical areas as well as in
finance/accounting, customers management, stocks purchase and management, and
computerization.
2.   Consulting Services.  The component provides for the engagement of
short-term consultants to undertake final design and tender documents for the
water hammer protection of the Idini-Nouakchott and Boulanouar-Nouadhibou
transmission lines, final design and tender documents of the protection for
the electricity systems of Nouakchott and Nouadhibou, feasibility study of
the Nouakchott sanitation system, and a study of SONELEC's financial
policies, tariff structure and levels, based on preliminary forecasts and
analysis of SONELEC's operations.
3.   Technical Assistance and Institution Building.  Technical assistance
will be provided by seven technical specialists for about 110 person-months
covering various fields (e.g., technical, client management, accounting,
inventory management,  and  computerization).   These experts will be
responsible for establishing suitable operation procedures within SONELEC, as
identified during the diagnosis of SONELEC's rehabilitation needs ("Analyse
diagnostique de la Soci&te Nationale d'Eau et d'Electricite et propositions
en vue de son redressement"). Technical assistance will further provide
on-the-job training to SONELEC staff, identify and prepare additional
rehabilitation needs, and assist SONELEC's management in preparing a program
contract,  redefining  SONELEC's  relationship with  Government.   Other
institutional reforms will be undertaken by SONELEC's management, with the
assistance of the technical advisors, and by the Ministry of Plan, with
external support as required, as part of the general sector reform measures.
The project includes provision of office equipment and vehicles for the
technical advisors.



- 79 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 2 of 3
4.   Physical Rehabilitation.  Physical rehabilitation under this component
will include improvements to water and electricity facilities in Nouakchott
as two separate sub-components. These are described in more detail in
Appendix 1 of this report.
(a) Water supply system in Nouakchott
- hydraulic and electro-mechanical equipment;
- maintenance equipment;
- distribution network pipelines (40,000m);
- meters and house connections;
- chlorination station;
- laboratory equipment for water quality control;
- equipment for repair workshop and meter adjustment
workshop;
- tools and spare parts;
- leakage detection equipment;
- radio connection system between Idini and
Nouakchott;
- maintenance vehicles;
- 3,000 meters (15 mm) and house connections.
(b) Electricity supply system in Nouakchott
- revision of diesel groups of Ksar 1 and Ksar 2
power plants;
- system protection and load shedding equipment;
- restoration and reinforcement of low and medium
voltage distribution networks;
- equipment for repair workshop and meter
adjustment workshop;
- spare parts and tools, including a fault locating
device for underground cables;
- safety equipment;
- 1 crane-truck and maintenance vehicles;
- 3,000 meters and house connections.
(c) Electricity supply system in Nouadhibou
- equipment and operating assistance for the conversion
of power plant from gas oil to fuel oil;
- small equipment,spare parts and tools, including a
fault locating device for underground cables.
- system protection and load shedding equipment;
- restoration and extension of the low voltage
network;
- restoration and reinforcement of the 15 KV
network, including the replacement of the



- 80 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 3 of 3
- overhead lines by underground cables;
- equipment for repair workshop and meters
adjustment workshop;
- safety equipment;
- 1 crane-truck and maintenance vehicles;
- 1,400 meters and house connections.
(d) Water Supply System in Nouadhibou
- hydraulic and electro-mechanic equipment;
- pumping station;
- cleaning equipment for boreholes clogged with
sand;
- remote control system for boreholes;
- 20 Km of transmissicn line (diameter: 350mm);
- distribution network pipelines;
- meters and house connections;
- chlorination station;
- leakage detection equipment;
- laboratory equipment for water quality
control;
- equipment for repair workshop and meter
adjustment workshop;
- radio connection system between Boulanouar and
Nouadhibou;
- maintenance vehicles;
- tools and spare parts;
- 1,400 meters (15 mm) and house connections.
Until the EIB and KfW appraisals are complete and final agreement reached
with these cofinanciers, it has been assumed that (i) EIB will finance
hydraulic equipment, cleaning equipment, remote control systems, leakage
detection equipment, laboratory equipment, repair equipment, pipes,
connections meters, maintenance vehicles and part of the tools and spare
parts; (2) KfW will finance the replacement of the transmission line; and (3)
IDA will finance water hammer protection equipment, pumping station and
pumping equipment and maintenance equipment plus part of the spare parts.



- 81 -
Annex 3-5
Page 1 of 4
MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
EMN: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.        This project component has been prepared on the basis of detailed
analysis of existing conditions, facilities, and operations, and EMN's
immediate future requirements, until the opening of the new port in around
1987. It includes:
(a) technical assistance to EMN to: improve port management
administration, port operations and cargo handling techniques, port
finance and accounting, and port maintenance and workshop
utilization; prepare additional rehabilitation plans; contribute to
the preparation of a program-contract with Government; and organize
EMN's training program (97 person-months);
(b) training abroad for EMN's upper level staff (24 person-months);
Cc) provision for undertaking economic, financial and technical studies
(30 person-months);
(d) rehabilitation of the existing deep-water berth;
(e) provision of cargo handling equipment and vehicles;
(f) provision of workshop equipment, materials for equipment repair,
and spare parts; and
(g) office equipment and physical upgrading of offices.
A.   Technical Assistance
2.        Aware of the urgent need to improve EMN's efficiency, agreement was
reached during appraisal that EMN will employ four experts, acceptable to IDA
and on terms and condLtions agreed upon with IDA, to assist EMN in:
-    port organization and administration;
-    port operations and cargo handling;
-    port finance and accounting; and
-    port maintenance and workshop utilization.



- 82 -
Annex 3-5
Page 2 of 4
3.        These experts will assist EMN in preparing a program-contract
detailing the obligations of Government and EMN under the proposed project
and their relations during and after project implementation.   Such a
program-contract will be coordinated by the project unit in the Ministry of
Plan, which will have additional resources available to engage technical
experts as needed. EMN's technical advisors will be appointed, each for 24
months starting in 1984, with financing available under the PPF. Their work
will be coordinated and supervised by a senior advisor who will visit
Nouakchott periodically (1-2 months per year). Each expert will prepare a
report to EMN and IDA every six months, detailing his goals and achievements.
Terms of reference of the experts are given in Appendix 2 of this report in
the Project File.
B. Training and Staffing
4.        A detailed staff training program should be prepared by June 30,
1985. In particular, the senior staff to be appointed under the project
should be trained abroad for a period of four months each, in addition to one
month of training for the Director General. The program and location of such
training should be agreed upon with IDA.
C.   Studies
5.        The following studies, all to be carried out by independent
consultants acceptable to IDA and under terms of reference agreed upon with
IDA, will be udertaken as part of the project:
(a) a technical study of the condition of the existing deep-water berth
and the least cost solution to rehabilitate it and ensure future
safety of its structure. Consultants will then prepare tender
documents suitable for international competitive bidding.  The
consultants' work should start as soon as possible;
(b) a financial study to recommend a new tariff structure that would:
(i) make tariffs related to costs; and (ii) make EMN financially
viable and enable it to achieve an acceptable financial return on
its investment;
(c) an economic study to compare the cost of transport of rice,
including freight rates, insurance, cargo handling costs, port
charges, etc., from the Far East to Nouakchott by 10,000 to 15,000
draft weight tonnage (dwt) ships against the cost by 5,000 dwt
ships;



- 83 -
Annex 3-5
Page 3 of 4
(d) an economic, financial and operational study to assess: (i) types
of operations to be assigned to the existing port after the
completion of the new port "de l'Amitie" now under construction;
and (ii) measures to be taken by EMN to ensure that the new port
will be efficiently managed and operated.
IDA will assist in the preparation of terms of reference for the above
mentioned studies. An agreement should be reached with Government and EMN
during negotations that they will discuss the recommendations of the study
with IDA and implement such recommendations as agreed with IDA.
D.   Rehabilitation of Existing Berth
6.        Essential improvements to the existing berth will be carried out as
part of the project. This work will entail replacement of protective devices
along the berth and reinforcement of supporting steel piles. The precise
details of these repairs will be determined as a result of further
engineering studies (using ultra sound) to address the extent of existing
corrosion. Construction is expected to start in mid 1985 and be completed in
late 1986. These works are to be financed by EDF.
E.   Provision of Cargo Handling Equipment
7.        In order to ensure efficient port operations in water and on land,
the proposed project will finance acquisition of the following cargo handling
equipment:
- 6 mobile cranes 4 to 6t capacity
_ 1 mobile crane 40/50t capacity
4 tractors 90 hp capacity
- 12 trailers 20 to 35t capacity
- 1 bus 30 passengers capacity
- 4 forkl,ft trucks 6t capacity
- 1 forklift truck 27t capacity
- 1 forklift truck 10t capacity
- 1 weighing bridge 50t capacity
- 8 small passenger cars
- 2 electric generators 315KVA capacity
- 2 radios VHF
8.        The two technical assistant experts for port operations and
equipment maintenance, assisted by a consulting mechanical engineer, will
prepare performance specifications and tender documents for the above



- 84 -
Annex 3-5
Page 4 of 4
mentioned equipment. EDF will finanue the mobile cranes, 4 forklift trucks
at 6t capacity, the tractors, and passenger cars. All other equipment will
be financed by IDA.
P.   Maintenance Equipment and Sp-re Parts
9.        The port's cargo handling equipment has been badly maintained
mainly because of the chronic lack of workship equipment, spare parts, and
raw materials required for rehabilitation and repairs. The proposed project
will finance urgently needed spares and materials, and workshop equipment.
The technical assistance expert for maintenance and workshop utilization will
p.repare the necessary list and specifications to be agreed upon with IDA.
Purchasing procedures will also be agreed upon with IDA and EDF. EDF will
finance a stock of spare parts for the equipment that it is financing (para
8). Other spare parts and workshop equipment will be fintanced by IDA.
G. Office Equipment and Upgrading
10.       The project provides funds to finance the improvement to ENN's
existing office space, in order to accommodate the resident advisors,
counterparts and support staff and to equip these offices with suitable
office equipment (typewriters, calculators, office furniture, etc.).
WAPPE
March 1985



- 85 -
Annex 3-6
MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
OPT: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
This component of the project will consist of:
(a) consultancy services to design the cost accounting
system; review and revise the existing accrual
system; develop the accounts receivable system,
an inventory control system and a basic operational
and financial performance monitoring system;
implement these new computerized accounting and
information system; prepare necessary support
manuals for these systems and assist OPT in
preparing separated financial statements for posts
and telecommunications (30 person-months);
(b) staff training in key financial and data processing posts
(20 person-months);
(c)  acquisition and installation of computer hardware,
spares, software, and initial stock of operating macerial
to meet identified system requirements;
(d) local salaries and related operating costs
for three years for additional staff (at maximum four
middle management and two technicians) to be recruited
for OPT's financial management and data processing
systems; and
(e) consulting services to assist OPT in preparing a detailed
medium-term rehabilitation program (9 person-months).
WAPPE
November 1984



-86 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 1 of 1
MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
REHABILITATION PROJ`CT
SECTOR REFORM COMPONLSI
ESTIMATED COST
(USS '000)
Local      Foreign    Total
1. Technical Assistance and Training
1.1 Project Management (36mm)             25           375       400
1.2  Expert Coordinators (9mm)             5            75        80
1.3  Training                              -            70        70
30          520       550
2.  Studies and Short-term Advice
2_1  Portfolio Strategy Studies (?'in)   10            230       240
Z.2 Base Studies
2.2.1  Salary Policy (12mm)          10           140       150
2.2.2  Training Needs (12 mm)        10           140       150
2.2.3  Budget Procedures (5m)         5            55        60
2.2.4  Information Systems (8mm)      5            95       100
2.3 Short-term Advice
2.3.1  Privatization (12mm)          10           140       150
2.3.2  Contract Program (3mm)         2            38        40
2.3.3  Interlocking Debts (4mm)       3            47        50
2.3.4  Institutional Issues (3mm)    2             38        40
2.3.5  Unallocated                    3            37        40
60          960      1020
3. Audits                                     40           410        450
4.  Hedium Term Program (45 mm)                40          500        540
5.  Equipment
5.1  Vehicles (3)                          -            30         30
5.2  Office Equipment & equipment          -            55        55
-           85         85
6.  Operating Costs
6.1  Supplies                              7            20         27
6.2  Casoline                              10           30        40
6.3  Maintenance                           6            10         16
6.4  Telecommunications                    5            15        20
6.5  Telephone                             7            20        27
6.6  Electricity                           5             5         10
6.7  Salaries                            370             -       370
6.8  Travel and other Expenses            10            50        60
420          150        570
7.  Base Cost                                 590        2,625      3,215
8.  Contingencies
8.1  Physical                              -            10         10
8.2  Price                               140           635       775
Total                                     730        3 270     4,000
WAPPE
October 1984



- 87-
MR= 3-8
PUBLC      E IECTENCAL ASSISMUNCZ AND
RItEHAITAXlI    W
SWMARY OF ESflNAmZD COSTS
SoNE= CcMPmCNcT
(Free from import Duties and fIZes)
--1U millioo--             ---0SS  illion----    % of
Local  Foreign   Total  Local   Foreign   Totel  Base Cost
1.  Technical Assistance and Training
(a) Rehabilitation Specialists           36      112       148    0.45      1.4      1.85        12
(b) Training                             -        16        20   0.05       0_2      0.25         2
Sub-total                           40      128       :68    0.50      L.60     2.1         14
27   Conaulcing Services
(a) Final design and tender documents
for rehabilitation works of:
- Nouakchott water supply systen      -        4         4      -       0.05     0.05
- Nouakchott electricity supply       -        4         4      -       0.05     0.05
"'ste
- Nocadhibou water supply system      -        4         4      -       0.05    0.05
-  iouadhibou electricity supply      -        4         4      -       0.05     0.05
ytem
Cb) Feasilbility stuCd  of the            -        4         4      -       0.05    0.05
sanitation system of Nouakcbhtt
;c) Preliminary study of tariffs          -        8         8       -      0.10    0.10
Sub-total                            -       28        28      -       0.35    0.35          2
3.  Physic.l Rehabilitation of Water
and Electricity Works
(a) Nouakchott water supply syatem       28      200       228    0.35      2.50     2.85        19
Cb) Nouakchoct electricity supply        36      184       220    0.45      2.30     2.75        i8
"Ste
(c) Nluadhibou water supply system       36      340       376    0.45      4.25     4.70        32
(d) Nocadhibou electricity supply        28      1.4       172    0.35      1.80     2.15        14
Sub-total                          128      868       996    1.60     10.85    12.45        83
4.  Bse Cost 1+2*3                           168     1024     L192    2.10    12.80    14.90         100
5.  Physical Continegencies                   17      102       129    0.21      1.28    1.49         10
6.  Price Contingencies                       37      226       262    0.46      2.82     3.28        22
-          222      1352     1574    2.77      16.90    19.67       132
MCM: Exchange Rate: US 1 - IR 80.
WAPPE
March, 1985



- 88 -
Annex 3-9
MAURIANIA
PUBLIC ENtERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
DMN: DEIAILEI WSTS ESTIMATES
The total cost of the DEN component is estimated at USS4.4 million equivalent
(UK 251 million) of which USS4.1 milLion (94%) is in foreign currency.
-----UM  million------  --------US$'000--------   E Base
Local   Foreign Total Local Foreign    Total    Cost
1. Technical Assistance (97 n-m)            6.4      55.6   62.0      80      695      775    22.0
2. Training (25 r-m)                        2.0      10.0   12.0      25      125      150      4.3
3. Studies                                 1.6       17.6   19.2      20      220      240      6.8
4. Rehabilitation of
Existing Facilities                  3.2       24.0   27.2     40       300      340     9.7
5.  Cargo Handling Equipment                  -     124.4  124.4       -    1,555    1,555    44.2
6.  Workshop Equipment                        -      16.8   16.8       -      210      210      6.0
7.  Spare Parts                               -      12.8   12.8       -      160      160      4.6
8.  Office Rehabilitation & Equipment      1.6        5.2    6.8      20       65       85      2.4
Total Base Cost                    14.8      266.4  281.2    185    3,330    3,515   100.0
9. Physical Contingency                    0.8        8.8    9.6      o0      n10      120      3.4
10. Price Contingency                       3.2      55.2   58.4      40      690      730    20.8
Total Contingency                      4.0       64.0   68.0     50       800      850    24.2
Total Project Cost                    18.8      330.4  349.2    235    i         4,365   124.2
WAPPE
November 1984



- 89 -
Annex 3-10
MAURTAIrA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE 3ECHNICAL ASSISTANCE MAD
REHAILITAION PROJECT
OPT: DErAILED PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
----------Umillion -----------        ---------USS'OOO--------          of
Local     FForeign       lotal        Local    Foreign   Total    Base Cost
1. Consultancy Services
1.1  Finamcial Management           2.4         26.4          28.8         30       330       360       36.4
1.2  Rehabilitation Plan            0.8          8.0           8.8         10       100       110       11.1
3.2         34.4         37.6         L.0       430      470        47.5
2. Training                             2.0         11.?          13.2         25       140       165       16.7
3. Equipment, Spares, Supplies           -          14.0          14.0          -       175       175       17.7
4.  Salaries and Operating Expenses   14.4            -           14.4        180         -       180       18.2
Total Base Cost                   19.6         59.6          79.2        245       745       990      100.0
9. Physical Contingencies                -           1.6           1.6          -         20       20        2.0
10. Price Contingencles                  4.0         12.0          16.0         50       150       200       20.2
Total Contingency                  4.0         13.6          17.6         50       170       220       22.2
Total Project Cost                ?3.6         73.2          96.8        295       915      12 0      122.2
WAPPE
March 1985



- 90 -                          ANNEX 4-1
MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
CRSP ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE
| ~Directorl
Technical Adviser
I Institutional Framework and Restructuring
Rehabilitation Process and Sector Strategy
Information Systems and Monitoring
I Training and Human Resource Development
WAPPE
November 1984



MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Activity                                            Current Status                                               Tmetable
A. SECTOR REFORM COMPONENT
(1) Technical Assistance and                 decree establishing CRSP                          - approved by President in June 1984                      - couplete
training for CRSP
- Terms of Reference for CRSP, etaff,               - approved by Hinister in June 1984                       - couplete
and Technical Advisor
- Letter of invitation for proposals                - issued June 1984                                        - couplete
for TA poet
- selection of CRSP Advisor                         - intervieva conducted in September 1984,                 - October 1984
final selection made; contract negotiations
underway
- appointment of CRSP advisor                       - appointment made in December 1984.  PPF                 - March 1985                                       °
financing available
- engagement of CRSP staff                          - staff search undervay; staff to ba In                   - September 1984 - June 1985
place by June 1985
- design of initial training program               - Bank mission to assist CRSP plan training                - June 1985
program anticipated for early 1985
- training courses and seminars in                  - program io to be phased over 2 year                     - 1985-1987
regional Institutions and visits to                 period
comparable organizations
(2) Institutional Reforus                  - study of four basic sector issues                 - draft terms of reference and latter of                  -  ossue request for propoeal In July
Invitation prepared                                      1985 A
- studies to be conducted starting
September 1985 through 1986 *
- study recomendations to be reviewed
and decisions taken by December 1986 *
Al could be advanced if alternative i
financing under Second TA project usdi
to finance otudies
- development of sector strategies for              - no vork Initiated; studies to be done In                - terms of reference to be prepared             o
- fishtng                                         sequence of fishing and banking sectors                   September 1Q85
- banking                                         first, followed by EPAP
- EPAP                                                                                                      - request for proposals by December 1985
- start-up of studies early 1986,
completed by end 1986



- strategy and diagnostic studiea of              - no work initlated                                     - tersm of reference to be prepared June |
specific enterprises                                                                                      1985
- SHAR                                                                                                                                                M
- SOHFCOB                                                                                               - request for proposal by September 1985 .
- start up of studies by December liS
for completion by March 1986
- legal reforms for                               - requiremonts aet out In enterprlae action             - changes to legal status of enterprise
- SONELEC                                       plans, which specify changes to be made                 to be completed an per enterprime action
- nN                                                                                                    glans,
- OPT
- general legal reforms                           - specific actions to be Identified as need             - program to be prepared based on
arises                                                  assessment of legal framework
- advise on liquidations,                         - specific actions to be identified as need             - follous plan of Implementing sector
privatizations and other restructuring            arises; genernl program undervay;expect to               reform; no specific program
actions                                           provide assistance on SOHIR (refinery)
- advise on otler reform measurea                 - apecial action an needed; steps well                  - follows plan of Implementing sector
(budgetary allocations, interlocking              underway                                                reform; no specific program
dubtsn  atc.)
- preparation of program contracts for             - technical advisor rutained to provide                - planning sessions on program contracts
- SONPLVEC                                      assistance of about I week per month once               scheduled for January 19851 followed by
- FHN                                           TA teams In place; preliminary disecuianons             revlews and followups as needed.
on approach took place in June 1984, PPF
financing available                                    - draft contracts anticipated for
September 1985
- final contracts requirad by December
1985
(3) External Audits                       - engage externial auditorn to verify             - no work Initiated                                     - auditor terms of reference to be
enterprine accounts and review                                                                            prepared July 1985
internal control syntems starting witb
FY85                                                                                                      - salection of auditors September 1985
- interim audit in October/November 1985
- audits to be carried out
December-March 1986
- cycle repeated each year



(4) Preparation of Hedium                 - synthesize recomnendations emanating              - no action initiated                                    - program to take place last year of
Term Rehabilitetion Plan              from sector studies, strategy study                                                                         project starting end 1986 through 1987
and efforts under Ist phase at SONELEC
and OPT                                                                                                     - program contingent on programs In
lmpleoenting sector reform masures
- select anterpriesa for 2nd phase
rehabilitation
- undertake diagnostics and prepare
rehabilitation plans
- prepare next phase progrem including
policy, institutional and legal iesues
as well an specific enterprise
rehabilitation and sector restructure
(5) Equipment and operational             - upgrading of existing office spacol               - PPF available to finance initial                       - office upgrading to take place
supporL for CR8P                      acquisition of office funiture and                 purchasea and start-up of CR5P operatinns                December 1984
equipment                                                                                                   - equipment and furnish!ng to be
acquired by January 1985
- ongoing support for contract staff                                                                         - support continues fur 4 years
supplies, travel, ete 
D.  HSRCGDCY SUPPORT FOR
SONIL EC
(1) Technical Assistance and              - terms of reference and request for                - approved and Issued in November 1983                   - complete
Training for SONELEC                  proposal prepared
- selection of "twinning" counterpart              - approved in April 1984                                 - complete
- negottations and final contract                  - undervay; to be signed by end-December                 - December 1984
1984
- appointment of technical                         - two lead advisors in place since July                  - all advisors to be in place by Harch
advisors                                           19841 balance of advisors by early 1985.                 1985 for two year period
PPF fJnancing available
- appointment of counterparte                      - initial selection done in June 19841 to                - to be completed by June 1985
be reviewed once advisors in place
- preparation of training program                  - Bank mission to assist proposed for mid                - to be completed by August 19851
1985                                                    course. to extend over 2 year period
- undertake technical studies of                   - no action initiated                                    - tariff  tudy to be underteken In 1987
tariffs, physical system                                                                                    for deelsion end 1987                        W 
- other technical studies to be carried 1
out As needed



(2) Physical Rehabilitation                 - Improvements to Nouakchott's                       - contractor selected; contract signed;                    - works anticipated for Dacember 1985 to
electricity system by                                work to start before end-December 1984;                    end 1986
- rehabilitation of existing                       CCCX finAncing avalleble
generating plant
- replacement of meters and
connections
- Improvements to Nouakchott's
water supply system                                                                                                                                           °
- technicaL study of water                         - terma of reference approved; sole-source                - study to be carried out by aid 1985
transmission                                      contract to be finalized by end-Harch 1985;
PPF financing available
- replacement of pipes, metera and                 - determination of quAntities being done by               - procurement to take place in 1985;
connections                                       Advisor; bidding documents to be prepared                  physical installation whould coence
by end-October                                            end 1985 and completed by end 1987
- Improvements to Nouadhibou'a                       - no action initiated; possibility of EIB                  - Terma of Reference to be prepared by
electrical system and conversion of                  cofinancing                                                September 1985
generator to fuel oil
- selection of supplier and technical
advisor by end 1985
- conversion to be completed by mid 1986
- improvements to Nouadhibou'a water                 - no action initiated                                      - no specific program as yet; waiting
system                                                                                                          decision of cofinanciers
- acquisition of spare parts,                        - specific requirements being Identified by                - initial list of equipment to be
vehicles, equipment, etc.                            TA team; PPF financing available for                       approved in October 1984
initial purchases
- acquisition through LCB and direct
purchase to takte place in November for
delivery of most equipment by March 1985
or earlier
- balance of needs to be met over
project perlod as required
(3) Management ImprovemontR                 - Implementation of action plan                      - initial action taken by SONELEC's                        - specific program is outlined in
covering:                                            management to:                                             SONELEC's action plan
- billings and collection                            - reorganitation and eatablisl  greater
client management                                     accountability
- accounting anl information systems                   - audit connections In Nouakchott and
- staffing and organization                            Improve collection procedures
- technical operations
C.  EMERGENCY SUPPORT FOR EHN
(I) Technical Assistance and                - terms of reference for TA posts                    - approved In 1984                                         - complete
Training
- selection of advlaors                              - replacemenit of preaent advisors to be                   - mid 1985
initiated by INN



- appointment of advisors                          - atleast three advisors to take up                      - condition of effectiveness
positions
- preparation of training program                  - Bank assistance to be provided                         - misaion proposed for 1985; approval by
Harch 1985 by June 1985
- appointment of counterparts                      - 4 counterparts appointed in June 1984                  - completed
- technical studies of Wharf                       - first study is to prepare details of                   - terms of reference to be prepared and
rehabilitation                                     physical rehabilitation; terms of reference              approved by September 1985
to be prepared by TA team; PPF financing
available                                               - selection of consulting fim by
December 1985
- study to be completed by March 1986
- other technical and economlc studies             - no action initiated                                    - study of transfer of new port to FKN
to be carried out starting early 1987
and completed mid-1987
- other studies not yet scheduled
(2) Physical Rehabilitation               - rebuilding of wharf                               - TA team to prepare terms of reference for             - repair of vharf to be carried out once
study of precise repairsa  physical works               study complets and requirements
financed by EDF                                         specified; physical worke anticipated
for 1986
- purchame of cargo handling equipment             - bidding documents under preparation, to                - procurement process scheduled for
be available for March 1985; financed by                 1985, for delivery by September 1935
EDP
- purchase of spare parts and                      - TA team to review list of spares prepared              - procurement of spares and maintenance         '
maintenance equipment                              by FMN, and to prepare list of maintenance               equipment to be carried out in 1985 for
equipment by end 1985                                   delivery by June 1986.
(3) Management improvements               - special action plan set out                       - initial actions already taken by EHN's                 - to be implemented according to
coverlng:                                          manasement to reduce staff and reduce                    timetable aet out in action plan
- productivity                                   overtime.  Tariffs increase February 1.
- staffing and conditions of work                1985
- management Information systems
D.  TEClNICAL ASSISTANCE TO
OPT
(1) Technical Assistance and
Training
(a) financial and accounting              - preparation of terms of reference                 - no action initiated                                   - to be prepared by September 1985
systems                               for consulting services to develop new
financial systems
- selection of system consultants                  - no action initiated                                    - to be undertaken by December 1985



- development of financial systemat                 - no action initiated                                     - to be undertaken during 1986 for
- nnaeds identificntion                                                                                     toplesentation *nd-1986
- s)stem deattl8
- syiltem specification
- syltem development
- aytitem implementation
- acqulsitlon and Installation of                   - no action Initiated                                     - based on systems development cycle; to
couputering facilities                                                                                        be acquired in mid to late 1986
- select and train staff for computer               - no nctton Initiated                                     - computer systems counterparts to be
operations and financial systemn                                                                              selected by early 1986; training program
to be prepared by June 1986 for courses
in July 1986 - March 1987
- training for accountants to be
integrated In to IDF/SHE project
training starting in 1986,
through 1987
- production of 1987 accounts                       - no action initiared                                     - consulting advice to be provided early
saparated for post and                                                                                        1987 (during Implementation) and
teleco  unicetton                                                                                             periodically throughout year.  Final
accounts for 1987 produced by March 1988          W
(b) Hediu*-Tera                            - preparation of terus of reference                  - no action initiated                                    - to be prepared by September 1985
Rehabilitation Plan
- selection of consulting firm                      - no actton Initiated                                     - to be Aelected by January 1986
- carrv otit study of OPT's meditim-term            - no action Initiated                                     - study done In early 1986 for
development needn nnd action plan                                                                             completion by June 1986



- 97 -
ANNEX 4-3
MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISBURSlEENT PROFILE
(US$ million)
rY             BY       CUMULA-
R.TS      QUARTER    7V-f:\
a/
.ZOTR            0           0
..r*!D 0-:n      0Z' 
3TIIOTIt         07          2o
2DID OTt  9     3                                                        C)~~~~~~~IO~
-----f                                                                                  ODC
:NfD OTI                       -                                                         -t
471110:1'11       I 3        61
.r'T 07Gtf00
:nD OTT             3        942           ) 
4714 2ITn       3C          1                                                           r- .
,YC 9 
A1~~~QTfl  .0    1~~~~. . %                                                   I-D
ZID 0f             0        '4 0
4. H QTR          .701
r~~~~~o 0  0    . ~ ~ D                  W      00  0N Din. 4        C 
_7EOTi___________________________\__0
a'   'ncludes ref :nanc.:nq of 1PPr advance. Cred:t effect:vt issumed
to be September ;9S5
bi  The Cankwzde historical profile for TechnicaI Assista~nce Projects
was modified to reflect the advanced state of init:al project
preparation as a result of the PP'  advance
WAPPE
March 19855



- 98 -
Annex 4-4
MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
SECTOR REFORM COMPONENT
MONITORING INDICATORS
Classification of Enterprise
(a) number of EPAP, EPIC, SEM
(b) number of transfers, liquidations, privatizations
Total Employment in PEs by type and level
Government Arrears with Enterprises
(a) budget allocations
(b) billed to date
(c) physical consumption
(d) payments to date
(e) balance outstanding
Interlocking Debts
(a) amount settled by compensation
(b) amount settled by rescheduling
(c) amount remaining to be settled
(d) balance outstanding
Projects Status
(a) contracts let (commitments)
(b) amounts invoiced under contract
(c) amounts submitted for reimbursement/direct payment
(d) amounts paid/reimbursed
(e)  physic'- progress by contract
WAPPE
November 1984



- 99 -
Annex 4-5
Page 1 of 2
MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHN1CAL ASSISTANCE AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
SONELEC MONITORING INDICATORS
QUARTERLY
Water/electricity production (m3/Kwh).
Water/electricity sales (m5/Kwh).
Water/electricity saies (UM).
System efficiencies (water and electricity) X.
Number and amount of unpaid water and electricity invoices (from last
quarter). Number of cut-offs from water and electricity,services due
to unpaid bills (from last quarter).
Number of re-establishments of water and electricity services following
payment of past invoices (from last quarter) and total amount recovered
(from last quarter).
Number of existing meters (water and electricity).
Number of repaired meters (water and electricity).
Number of installed (new and repaired meters (water and electricity)).
Replacement of water network pipelines (lengths; diameters; material).
Specific fuel consumption for each plant (g/Kwh).
Energy curtailment as a percentage of energy delivered.
Availabi.ity rate for each diesel unit.
Number c_ faults per 1OKm of cable in the distribution network.
Performed maintencance compared to planned maintenance.
Staff (number, name and qualification of professional and support staff
(tecbnicians) and expatriate specialists; and number and qualification
of laborers and personnel expenditures) for water and electricity.
Operating Expenditures (water and electricity).
Total revenues (water and electricity).
Installation of electricity system protection (no.).
Replacement of electricity system cables (legth; sector; material).



- 100 -
Annex 4-5
Page 2 of 2
ANNUALLY
Operating ratio (water and electricity).
Debt/Equity ratio (water and electricity).
Gross internal cash generation (water and electricitv).
Net internal cash generatton (water and electricity).
Accounts Receivable by type of client and age of overdue payment (water and
electricity)
WAPPE
November 1984



- 101 -
Annex 4-6
MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
REHABILIATION PROJECT
EMN MONITORING INDICATORS
Cargo handled (tons) by category of goods and bv type of operation (berth, at
anchor).
Total Staff
- permanent
- temporary
Total tonnage (excluding bulk cement) per working day per shift.
Ship waiting time (at berth, at anchor)
Average staying time of merchandize in port
Availability of cargo handling equipment
Revenues and expenses as compared to budget
Average tariff per ton by category of goods
Accounts Receivable and Payable by major client/supplier/Government
Overdrafts/Bank balances
Annual Financial Indicators
- operating ratio
- current ratio
- D/F ratio
- debt service
Annual Budget, Financial Statements, and Report
Audit Report
Status of Project
- accounts
- commitments
- requests for payments
- technical assistance progress reports
WAPPE
November 1984



- 102 -
Annex 4-7
MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENERPRTISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
OPT MONITORING INDICATORS
Number and Cost of Employees                       Staffing and Staff Training
-  Telecommunications                            (position, qualifications,
-  Postal/financial                             nature, location, etc.) in
-  Common Services                               Finance Department
Arrears in Accounts Receivable                     Annual Financial Indicators
by age                                             -  rate of return
-  Government                                      -  operating ratio
-  parastatal                                      -  current ratio
-  private                                         -  DE ratio
- net liability
(financial servcies)
Collections and Billings                          Tariff levels
-  Government                                      by branch
- parastatal
- private
Suspensions, Disconnections, by                   Telecommunications
type of client                                    -  Operating Cost/DEL
- Operating Revenue/DEL
- Maintenance Cost/DEL
- Net Fixed Assets/DEL
No. of DELS
WAPPE
November 1984



PULIC EHTERPRISI TECHNICAL Assis4TA3     AND t813a LTAiT3C   "WIC?
sw1tuc IC("a  ANALYSIS
813S1113T1  lA   R I3301
nnL  INCRIAI                       ala0                TARIFTS
IATX OF DNT-n11c                   o 0.02                -uC            .00
IAT  OFt DOft-YAn                 0.04                  'WATER         3.00
MR0. CArlTAL cosT                  1.00           P1oua8L1tY
LOC. CAPITAL C05                   1,00           OF CoLLAPS           0.10
MR$.  7  COST                      1.00
LOC. D04  wsr                      1.00
sA  (qro)                          1.00
?ICI4RCAL BIC                      ',00
HOUAXCH07I
MATEC  PIC CTIOl108       ILzcTIICITY               INCRW7IAL            CAPITAL COST    HAIlTeNMOcE cosT  OPpRATIOS cOsT                     TOTAL COST                 TARIFFS        IMCUM1TL SAULS                                     U3 IITS
TW13UCTIC44                  8ALU                                                              IUCTIICJTY                                                                           4331  0o
MUEL    Wln0          WITH   win3 T          WiTH                    ELTC                 cLce- ELEC-                                                           LtC-                   ELEC-                ELEC-   mLeAPSnt        nFL                 ELUC.
ISCAL    PROJECT   PROJECT   PR1LCC    PIWECT                IA7E71   TRICITY    uATER   TRICITO    WATER   TRICITY   WATtR   nfUL   071tl   WATER   TRICITY                 WATER    TRICITY   hATEN   THICITY           (WATER)   EAVlrI   WATU   TRICITV   TTAL
YEAR    ATION         ('000 CU H)               (N0H)             ('000 HM)    (IHt;)                                                                                                 (UNIHMI    (Wi/nIM)
1984      1.00         5000                  12000                                             5                                                                    5           S                                                                            'S         *       *1
los5      1.22         5048      5S30        32708       211000         40        5b610       e9          97        3           1        1      20                I0         III       21.80        13.10       it          77           2S        is      -63         -39    -102
1986      1.25         1094        5171      13016       28901          412       4903       222         345       10           I        3      34         1      23s        38l       37.80        13.70       3,          is           2s        Is    .171          -1S     -714
1981      1.21        s514         619       S5 12726     0083         1654       7985        SO          48       11           9        S      40         1       66          98     317.0         13170       55         109           2S        I6       13          27       40
1988      1.10         5194       9653       51660       41710         1727       9S54                             i1           9        7      52         1       18          62      l1.80        13.70      6*          l)l           is        16       72          aS      IS?
1989      1.31         1244       7145       52007      41210          7022      30200                             11           9        9      57         I       20          67      37.80        13.10       74         140           2s        16       81          is      169       1
1990      I.3s         4929        7165      31366       41230         2180      10721                             11           9       30      43         1 '      2          73      31.80        13.70       82         11            21,       16       as          90      116
1991      1.31         4631        13.       10139      41270          1318      11134                             1.           9       II      4          :       23          78      37.80        13.70       as         154           35        16       8           93      aI       w
3332      1.41         4355        7145      30124       42270         1461      1156                              11           9       14      13         1       25         83       17.80        13.70       93         161           25       61         93         93      397
1993      1.43         '094        731S      291S2       43110         2197      12221        19          Is       11           9       Is       19        1       45         101      37.80        13.70       is         16S           3S        16        78         76      IS4
19916     3.4,         348         7116      18931       61270         1120      12709        31          30       It           9       136      4         1       59 s                37.80        33.70      303         174           is        16       69          65      134
1995      1.49         3617        7165      18313       431320        1835      138l          3          11       It           9       la8    9O          1       47        112       37.80        13.10      307         L81           is        16       90          64      175
1916      1.52         3400       7145       21396       41170         7944      13644                             i1           9       19      96         1       30         106      37.S0        13.70      111         I87           25        16       106         97      307
1991      3.1s         3394       7345       77230      41270          3046      14098                            1            9       10    102          1       31        I11       37.80        13.70      ItS         193           21        16      108          97      20s
1998      3.58         loos        731         t 16685   *1210         I62       I4541                             i1           9       22    108          1       33         118      17.80        33.70      139        It            25        16      III          97      208
1999      1.61         2824        734s      26152      43170         M232       14938                             I1           9       73    114          I       34        124       17,80        31,70      I71         105           15        36      133          93      31o
2000      1.6s         715         7165      254629     43270          3317      IS404        19          i8       11           9       74     120         t       S4        419       31.60        13.70      U2s         231           33        36       96          i8      174
2001      1.48         2496        715       25366       41270         3196        51523      31          30       I1           9       3s    321          3       6a         361      27.80        13.70      328         217           15         16      8as          5      3st
2002      6.27         2346        7141      24614      43270          3473      16721        13          It       11           9       74     333         1       SO        356       37.60        L1.70      III         121           1S        16      104          *)       3s8
2001      1.15         2205        2145      24121       41270         3541      16634                             11           q       27      140        1       I9         IS0      37,80.       1,70      164         118           18         16      120         93       213
2004      1.78         2073        7345      23639       41270         2608      17028                             it           9       28    147          1       40        157       27.90        13.70      136         233           25        16       121        t9       233
2005      1.83         L948        334S      23144       41210         3610      17414                             11           9       30    354          1       43         164      21.80        13.70      l39         239           25         16      123         90      213
2006      3.86         1833        7165      22170       41270          7271     37797                            13            9       13    343                  67 I      373       37.80        13.70      141         164           25        14      124          II      212
2001      1.89         1722        7145      22249      43270          3783      18164                            1            9       12    146          1       43        176        .11.0       13.70      143         269           21        36       I11         84      I11
2008      1.93         1638        714S      21804       41270          a 113    381s                              i1           9       33    136          1       44        186       37.80        13.70      14S          1'4          25        16      126          64      210
2009      1.7         1521        7345      21348       41270        3264       18661        19          38       1L           9       14    382          I       64        711       31760        13.70      167         259           25        16      108          43     11
301o      2.01         1630       7165       20940       4130          39M9      19230        33          30      1            9       is    393          1       77         233      37.,0         3.10     149         243           71       13         94         48      144
2033      1.05         3344        734S      20122       41270         3972      19172        33          32       i1           9       34     199         I       60        221       37.80        33.70      1S0         283           2S        16      ItS          63      17
2012      2.09         1781       711s       70133       41270         4012      19907                             it           9       21    207          I       48         J`27     37.80        2J.70      1?2         212           25         16      128         72      200
2013      2,33         l388        7145      19709       41270         4050      20235                             It           9       38     215         1       49         275      27.30        13.70       153        277           i5        36       129         48      197
2014      2.17         1114       t23s       19335       41270         4064      20S6        -19         -16       I1           9       19     7           I       It         2ts      37.80        13.10      354         282           2s         36      348         87      230
WAlER                                TI.EClI'ITY                                                                                                                                                                                          'U
N6Ac3 c3rr 041H3'oaHEIV   eWIT                                                                             AVRAGI INCREWxtAL. COIg
IW  *At 10%        77                   IIPV at 10%       411                 NW *At  10%       436 
Ify at 54%      -3.66                    613  at 26%     2.4Z7                9V at  4.6        0.50        WATER (mmi,9)
UADI I0U 0' 43a   NT  OCLY                                                                                 11EMIRCITY (ItjMI)                                                                                                                                                       N
NPV at I30       1354                    610 at 30%  *184                     9'V at  30%    3158
IPVY at 54%      1.44                   8V at  5%   20.07                    IIP  at 310%          1
TOTAL POJEICT
81' at 10%       2U30
NPV St 44%       1.23



ANNEX  -1                                          -104-
Page 2 of 2
n   iN   -F-------°$              --J S----- ---- --                   
--e R   s -- ---- ---------fgO                   --   - - -
:n..   . . .                . _          .a.... .           -
tAU
2   ,.,_0aa$
~~~  ~    ~        ~        ~          
8_0           -fl. O - _- - -.-a-n _  -         _               0
B             Sa ..i___________
.3 *          a                                        a              *a98aeo2asoasS.aaoe.an
*  n   - ~      ~       ~        ~        - -- -- -
:~ ~ =t                      aC         Cn Se I0. .;.;    .,
--  U S> _       0  _s  -~ o ~      6 --w e c    ininne  a     !    
o a
O ta            n        -          ,ror.n0
-~ :
Z on_ef                       .rn         G      a             ..      O- O. 
a r
!,.a   -                                             r--;          
_l y _ gX sG _ VO  °                    
-.              a.-     r      _______    k_e
MU            0   WCerO c0            0OC  . _>  - r.  -C      -e  
I   F  _           o     re n ,tn               a e a         a    m a
YL                   *ner.So  o                                                    -      :-' S 'c g    c
=n-s en IteeZ__   0n en___ s 



- 105 -
ANNEX 5-2
Page 1 of 1
MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANICE AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
EMN ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
------'' ---'  ; -,T -  -----
FFGULC IELINE            1.6
Ti-.:FFS                 I.0
EP1RTAL ES
FMFEItJ               1i.0
'0.1CAL               1.00
Od:~ CasT                i.r,
RAE- OF  F5:9TH          0.0
....... ?JI        .......LLIOHS.............                       ................I'IILUONS
TRAFFIC                                                         SA0INES
WITHOUT    VITH              WINTHE             AVERAGE             PERSON-                     INtCLUDIt6
aOI;IH  PP.JECT  PRCJECT  CAPITAL   -ANCE        TOTAL   TAPFFF   SLES         lEL     TOThL      NET    SAL'VAE
;E4F.  F.CTOR 2    i!QQ TOWNES)     COSTS    COSTS       COSTS (UHM;TONNES)          COSTS   BENEFIT  BENEFIT   VALUE
iwe;     i.o':
'   -3'J   . ~ 3    '         100 C              I 3      7;2         0        o8       68                 -,
1X ;        1. ;    Z                             1 0      1 IB      86    0      .  !;7s1-                 -3       ;37
t~~~~~~7  -~~~~~-                                                                                    66        6
i-_;   ;. ;*                             10o      10 ;     86;        16 6 7 1
j_:2, ;, 4                    74                  10        10  r      3        18 64    Co ,6
*:S         -                                     I -D      Al.                                    92 86
JJ4      -4Ico616,,                                        1a         ?
A..  £.h?      35        .. I1                                  Bl        2         ie        9
--'     i.'';       54-      l'0                 10                 863        31       0,        98        88
--_     i.,.       354       35?                 10        iC       863       ;.        67       104        94
1.3( X:   ;354                           10        lo      663        48        66      11i&      104
LPVio,.      -0.02



IBRD 16452R
W                                                                     --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
, - ~~I"u*RiTA.l%II
- ~     ~     ~  ~A  F  R IC  A            -
MAURITANIA
M ORO)CCO
r -    PAVED ROADS                                                            MOROCCO
__~-- PAVED ROADS LINDER CONSTRUCTION
LATERITEARTH ROADS                                                                            ^ un
_ AILRS OAaiun
Al RFIELDS                                                                                         K
It1TERNATIONALAIORTS P|.
PO RTS
IWdTERNATIOItAL UOvDARrES :
INDICAIESTHETERRITORYOFTHE                                                      I
FORtAERSPANISH SAHARA
lWfWSTEf4SAHARA" I 
FORIUER M
o _____eo   ___ _00  z               SPANI SH
S A HAR-.A                 i           .-' 
*  {Vll cDolihIoc                                        |        --
tg                                                  , _ / C'nom)i
|   l;                              {   ¢ow               ,     , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------ ---*--- -                 
!                           -i  .         -                                        I
IG                        '-----   --',----,------,--
-. b
Chinguern                               , l, 
J  Seguel    \,
.. NOUAKAO-1`TT                                                                 ,
--       -)   30Xth~~~ul,mut.  Co~rgarc' uLIeI'Iar-                                              *  
Rz sso + <>.N~~~~~~~e.rc 
.ctamc.ae
/ ,;Z7,mbedro
-St Le  isf Ddrv"                                                                                 ,^lr'^dr    
El ojndWre              o~'b.j
*  og                  9E  [B6hAbr                        6PNIorool;~~~~Cr~~  duScrel
''sKA -Al                                              B4kel                                   ;     A        L  -
S E N E G A                                            L                 ,d
!Ng c f   ' O.O.,.Od esi-o'S.    ..-'- bi.,   R.   *
r,.,..C c,o,  a..r.a,J,    D   _4   _ tA-.,., .cw  S.  J -:* _
FEBRUARY 1985






