Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFlCIAL USE ONLY
Report No.13102
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1567-MAU)
JUNE 3, 1994
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit    =   ouguiya (UM)
US$1.00          =   UM 80*
UM 1.00          =   US$0.0125*
* At the time of project appraisal
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
CCCE         Caisse centrale de cooperation economique, France
CNSS          Caisse nationale de securite sociale
CRSP         Cellule de redressement du secteur parapublic
DTAF         Direction de la tutelle administrative etfinanciere
DTEP         Direction de la tutelle des entreprises publiques (formerly DTAF)
ECU           European Currency Unit
EDF           European Development Fund
EIB           European Investment Bank
EMN          Etablissement maritime de Nouakchott
EPAP         Entreprise publique a caractere administratif et professionnel
EPIC         Entreprise publique ia caractere industriel et commerciel
FAC          Fonds d'aide et de cooperation
IDA           International Development Association
IGF          Inspection generale des finances
ILO           International Labour Organization
KfW          Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
OCAM         Organisation commune africaine et mauricienne
OPT           Office des postes et telecommunications
PAN-PA       Port autonome de Nouakchott (Port de l'amiti)
PE            Public enterprise
SEM           Societ d'conomie mixte
SN            Societe nationale
SNIM         Societe nationale industrielle et miniere
SONELEC    Societe nationale d'eau et d'electricite
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 3, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on the Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Public Enterprise Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 1567-MAU)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on the Islamic Republic of Mauritania - Public
Enterprise Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1567-MAU) prepared by the Africa
Regional Office, with Part II prepared by the Borrower.
The total project cost was appraised at US$29 million, with IDA providing US$16 million and
four cofinanciers the remaining US$13 million. This was partly a TA project and partly an investment
project. The project's TA components (about US$9 million) were intended to strengthen the
Government's capacity to formulate and implement a strategy for rationalizing the public enterprise
sector. The rehabilitation components (about US$20 million) consisted mainly of equipment for the
national water and electricity company (SONELEC) and for the port authority.
The objectives of the TA components included the identification and implementation of
institutional and legal reforms including the identification of alternatives (rehabilitation, privatization or
liquidation) for specific enterprises, and the improvement of management practices within the
enterprises.
Based on the findings of the PCR, the project outcome is rated as marginally satisfactory, and
its institutional development impact as modest. Sustainability is rated as uncertain.
The PCR does not provide a fully adequate basis upon which to evaluate some key aspects of
project, Borrower and Bank performance. For example, although the appraisal report set out a
substantial number of performance indicators (especially with regard to SONELEC's efficiency), little
information is provided on the performance of these indicators. (It is not however clear to what extent
this is an ID failure versus a PCR omission). For example, the projected ERR at time of approval was
44 percent, but no re-estimation is provided in the PCR. The PCR also fails to assess whether the
US$3.7 million overrun in technical assistance to SONELEC was warranted, and it is wanting also in its
qualitative assessment of the project's ID impact and constraints thereto.
It is however clear enough from the PCR that (i) SONELEC incurred large cumulative financial
losses over the project period, rather than the planned profits; and (ii) that sustainability will hinge
largely on the success of the follow-up project.
An audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents mnay
not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1567-MAU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Page No.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .               .............................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ..............................................
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANKIS PERSPECTIVE  ......                          ..............  1
PROJECT IDENTITY  ................................................                                  1
PROJECT BACKGROUND  ..............................................   1
Policy and economic context ..............................................   1
Sector development objectives ............................................    1
Linkages between project, sector and policy objectives .......            ...................  2
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION  ..........                           .....................  3
Project objectives . ............................................. 3
Project description . ............................................. 3
PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION  ...........                           ......................  4
Project development .............................................. 4
Evaluation of project design and organization ...........           ......................  4
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ...........................................  5
Actual project start-up .............................................. 5
Length of implementation period ..........................................  5
Implementation history .............................................. 5
Costs and disbursements .............................................                            5
PROJECT RESULTS .............................................. 6
Objectives in view . ............................................ 6
Results achieved ............................................   6
Variances between planned and actual results ...........            .....................  13
Project impact ............................................   13
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performne aft1
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.   O



Table of Contents (cont'd)
Page No.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY  ............                  ................................  14
General sustainability at sector level .......................................  14
Sustainability at enterprise level (SONELEC, EMN, OPT) ......................  14
Risk factors .........................................................    15
BANK PERFORMANCE . ................................................ 15
Bank performance with regard to sector reform  ..............................  15
Bank performance with regard to the three beneficiary enterprises .....         ...........  15
Lessons leamed from the project .........................................  16
BORROWER PERFORMANCE  ..........................................  16
Performance during project appraisal and design  .............................  16
Performance during project implementation and follow-up ......................  17
Lessons leamed by the Borrower .........................................  17
PROJECT RELATIONSHIPS  ............                   ................................  18
Cooperation between Bank and Borrower ..................................  18
Cooperation between Bank and other donors ................................  18
CONSULTING SERVICES, SUPPLIERS AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ....                            ....  18
PROJECT DOCUMENTATION .....                                                                   18
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  .............  19
PART III - INFORMATION AND STATISTICS  ...............................  24
RELATED BANK CREDITS ............                       .......................  24
PROJECT TIMETABLE  ...................................  24
CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS ............                       .......................  25
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .................................... 26
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ...................................    27
PROJECT RESULTS ...................................   28
STATUS OF COVENANTS ...........                       ........................  32



Table of Contents (cont'd)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.  Government Reform  Measures   .             .......................................  36
2.  SONELEC Electricity - Technical and Commercial Efficiency   .....                   ............ 37
3.  SONELEC Water - Technical and Commercial Efficiency  .................... 38
4.  SONELEC - Long-term  Debt Ratios  ............                    ........................  39
5.  SONELEC - Sources and Uses of Funds  ..........                     .......................  40
6.  SONELEC - Working Capital .             .........................................  41
7.  SONELEC - Consolidated Operating Results   .............................  42
8.  SONELEC - Operating Results: Electricity  .........                   ...................... 43
9.  SONELEC - Operating Results: Water ..........                     ........................  44
10. SONELEC - Balance Sheet ............................................ 45






ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1567-MAU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for a technical assistance and rehabilitation
project targeting public enterprises in the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, for which a credit of
US$16.0 million (SDR 16.9 million equivalent) was originally approved on March 26, 1985. The
proceeds of this operation, which closed on December 31, 1992, two years after the date originally
scheduled, were not fully disbursed; a balance of SDR 1,443,551.56 was cancelled effective
February 25, 1993.
This PCR was prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations Division, Sahelian
Department, Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the
Borrower (Part II).
T'his Report is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit Agreement, and the
Project Agreements with SONELEC, EMN and OPT, the Bank supervision reports, the reports
of SONELEC's monitoring committees, other documents, and information and statistics obtained
from the various executing agencies and from individuals.






- iii -
ISIAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1567-MAU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
OBJECTIVES
In 1983, the Government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania launched a program to
reform the parastatal sector as a whole and rehabilitate specific public enterprises, as part of a
more general policy of structural adjustment and economic recovery. Its objectives, to be pursued
under Credit 1567, were (i) to lay the groundwork for rationalization of the sector, and (ii)
promote the selective rehabilitation of public enterprises deemed to be of primary strategic
importance.
The aim was to create within the Ministry of Planning a specialized agency to prepare and
propose to the Government, on the basis of various studies, (i) a sector rationalization strategy,
(ii) institutional and legal reform measures, (iii) recommendations on strategic alternatives for the
principal enterprises (rehabilitation, privatization, liquidation), and (iv) measures to improve
management practices in those enterprises.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project startup was delayed by a year, and extended two years beyond the initial timetable.
It encountered many difficulties as a result of (i) the scope and diversity of the different activities
(23 disbursement categories), (ii) the shortage of qualified human resources, (iii) inexperience on
the part of the four executing agencies handling management of the credit components, and (iv)
the institutional context, a source of major delays in the procurement of goods and services.
Nevertheless, project implementation was consistent with the broad lines and stages
envisaged in the Appraisal Report.
Where financial management of the credit is concerned, it appears from the project's
closing audit that some of the executing agencies have not yet provided all the supporting
vouchers for several disbursement categories.
RESULTS
Evaluation of the project's results poses a particular problem since the macro- and
microeconomic indicators were practically nonexistent, or else very unreliable, at the time of
project startup.



- iv -
A.    Parastatal sector and related reforms
The objective was to enable the Government to formulate a strategy for rationalization
of the sector and reform of the institutional framework. This objective was only partially
achieved.
Nevertheless, all public enterprises were reclassified into standardized categories
(Entreprise publique a caractJre Industriel et commerciel [EPIC], Entreprise publique a caractre
administratif et professionnel [EPAP], Societet nationale [SNI, Socite d'&conomie mixte [SEMI)
and criteria for their retention in or removal from the government portfolio were established.
However, by the end of the project not all strategic choices had been made with regard to the
enterprises concerned, particularly for certain EPICs and the SEMs.
In the area of institutional and legal reform, new Ordinances were enacted, containing a
clearer definition of the respective roles and responsibilities of boards of directors and general
managers, but their practical application had only a very limited effect on the relations between
the supervisory agencies and the boards of directors and general managers.
Other objectives in the area of institutional reform that were not achieved included
(i) formulation of a comprehensive policy for the compensation of PE managerial staff,
(ii) establishment of transparent budget procedures within the enterprises, and (iii) design of an
exhaustive system of information (database) on the enterprises.
B.    Beneficiary enterprises
(a) Societe nationale d'eau et d'electricite (SONELEC)
The project provided for SONELEC to receive substantial financial assistance
(SDR 8,130,000) for its complete rehabilitation to enable it to (i) meet the demand for water and
electricity supply, (ii) balance its financial results, (iii) improve its performance within the
framework of a first performance contract to be prepared and signed during project
implementation.
Thanks to investments, technical assistance, training and, above all, the involvement of the
management team and the cooperation among the various donors (Caisse centrale de cooperation
economique, France [CCCE], Fonds d'aide et de cooperation [FAC], European Development
Fund [EDF], International Development Association [IDA]), SONELEC, whose financial
situation had given serious cause for concern, was able to improve its operations and its services
and to obtain positive financial results in 1988.
A performance contract was signed with the Government in 1989. This was the first time
that an agreement had been signed in Mauritania between an enterprise and the Government on
the objectives to be achieved and the mutual obligations of the parties. The terms of this
contract were largely respected by the two parties.
By the end of the project, however, SONELEC's situation still had not recovered
completely, and it still needs assistance in order to sustain its recovery.



(b) EMN/PAN-PA
The project provided for Etablissement maritime de Nouakchott (EMN) to receive financial
assistance to enable it to recondition its deepwater docking facility, procure handling equipment
and other physical resources, and set up organizational and management systems allowing it to
discharge its service mandate until the new deepwater port, Port autonome de Nouakchott-Port
de l'amitii (PAN-PA), came into operation.
All project activities and procurement operations were completed with the exception of
reconditioning of the deepwater docking facility (whart).
Meanwhile, following a survey financed under the project, EMN merged with and was
taken over by PAN-PA, which became the project beneficiary.
The overall technical performance of the new EMN/PAN-PA joint enterprise improved
markedly, but several matters were still in need of attention at project completion, such as
(i) privatization of handling activities, (ii) setting of realistic tariffs (iii) overstaffing, (iv) financial
results.
The measures consolidating PAN-PA's recovery, which were not undertaken under this
project, were implemented under Credit 2167, and a performance contract was signed with the
Government in 1992.
(c) OPT
The project provided for a contribution of SDR 990,000 for Office des postes et
t9l6communications (OPT) in the form of technical assistance, computer facilities and training
to enable it to improve its financial management and prepare a medium-term reorganization and
development plan. A balance of SDR 316,130 remained undisbursed. The planned activities
were only partially carried out, and the results obtained were limited (accounting procedures
manual and computer facilities). However, these tools did not contribute to any significant
improvement in OPT's financial management.
LESSONS LEARNED FROM THE PROJECT
This project was very ambitious given the situation prevailing at the institutional level and
within the enterprises themselves. Several lessons may be drawn from its implementation and
results.
The first lesson is that when a project is a large and complex one it is preferable to have
only one executing agency, which should be experienced in management of this type of credit and
familiar with the Bank's procedures.
The second lesson is that one should not underestimate the difficulties or the time
involved in implementing institutional reforms when they comprise major changes in
responsibilities and authority and also in the obligations of enterprise managers vis-a-vis
government and donors.



- vi -
The third lesson concerns the importance of the human factor in the success of a project.
In this connection, it is important that a very realistic assessment be made right at the start of
present and potential future human resource capacities. It should not be assumed that as soon
as the proper training is provided those capacities are all automatically going to improve.
The fourth lesson is a corollary to the third: it is essential that the government be very
careful about the choice of the management teams of beneficiary enterprises, and ensure that
throughout the project those teams remain concerned with the government's objectives and
reform strategy and not simply with its material contributions.
Lastly, it is useful to stress the very great importance of having the Bank monitor
operations systematically, rather than treating this aspect simply as a formality. For this purpose,
the following elements are essential: (i) good follow-through by the task manager, (ii) effective
coordination among Bank experts in different technical fields, (iii) a standardized methodology
for supervision missions based on the comparison of actual with estimated results, planning of
activities still outstanding, a work timetable, and the effective distribution of tasks. In the case
of a large and complex project, it would be advisable to arrange to hold a formal mid-term review
with the Govemment to explore possible programming changes.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
T'he sustainability of the project outcomes is in direct relationship to the degree of
involvement of the Government and executing agencies during implementation, and, subsequently,
to their decision to continue with the reform process and pursue their efforts to improve
performance levels.
A.    Parastatal sector and institutional framework
'here was a danger that the project results would be limited in time since not all the
reform measures had been completed.
The new Credit 2167 will enable the Government to consolidate its sector rationalization
policy. For this it will be able to call upon Cellule de redressement du secteurparapublic (CRSP),
the sole executing agency, whose expertise and resources have been strengthened to enable it to
help sustain the outcomes of the preceding project.
B.    The three enterprises
(a) SONELEC
The project enabled SONELEC to attain the organization and the material and human
resources needed and to gradually improve its performance. However, by the project closing date
the rehabilitation process was not complete and SONELEC needed further substantial support
to give it the long-term means of consolidating a still very fragile situation.



- vii -
(b) EMN/PAN-PA
Having now become PAN-PA, EMN also had fairly solid physical and human assets by
project closing, but it still needed different forms of assistance to enable it to finalize its
rehabilitation plan. This additional support is now being provided under the new Credit 2167-
MAU, and a performance contract was signed with the authorities in 1992.
Where these two enterprises are concerned, the extreme seriousness of their situation at
the start of the project and the significance of the rehabilitation measures made it necessary to
obtain support under a second project (Credit 2167-MAU) to guarantee the sustainability of the
outcomes of measures already implemented.  This was particularly justifiable since the
Government and management teams had been heavily involved in the first project, even though
all the objectives were not achieved.
(c) OPT
It is difficult to evaluate the sustainability of the project on OPT, since not all the
activities were carried out and it is deemed as not to have achieved its objectives. This is an
example of how a reform plan will not fully succeed and or be sustainable when the enterprise
concerned does not want to be fully involved in it and the Government is not inclined to force
it to participate. Insofar as OPT is concerned, it disclosed its positive financial results, and the
fact that it already had access to other sources of financing led it to regard the IDA credit as just
another typical bank loan.






ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1567-MAU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name: Public Enterprise Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Project
RVP Unit:   Africa Region
Country:     Mauritania
Sector:      Public Enterprises/Industry and Energy
2.    PROJECT BACKGROUND
2.1   Policy and economic context
At the time of project appraisal, Mauritania was experiencing a grave financial and economic
crisis and the medium-term outlook was not encouraging. This difficult situation was essentially due
to the following causes: (i) declining farm production because of successive periods of drought;
(iii) declining iron ore exports (which account for 60% of export earnings) because of shrinking world
markets; (iii) economic mismanagement and a sizable public deficit.
At the same time, the financial contributions and external assistance which had until then
helped to partially make up the country's deficit had shrunk considerably. Mauritania thus found it
virtually impossible to meet its external debt-service obligations (on a total of US$1.8 billion at year-
end 1983), particularly those due on state-guaranteed loans to public enterprises.
2.2   Sector development objectives
During the period 1960-70, the Government actively developed the parastatal sector, which
grew to more than 100 enterprises (56 EPAPs, 25 EPICs, 27 SEMs). This policy reflected a
determination to achieve strategic independence where essential public services and some important
industrial, mining and agricultural activities were concerned. These enterprises are estimated to
generate 20-25% of GDP, employ a quarter of the modern-sector labor force, and account for 20-
25% of the total external public debt. SNIM is by far the largest of them, followed by SONELEC,
OPT, EMN, Air Mauritania, SONADER (rural development) and SONIMEX (import-export).
Except for SNIM, the major enterprises were showing sizable group losses, which meant that the state
was forced to ensure their financial survival. Unfortunately, its own grave budget crisis put a stop
to these subsidies, besides preventing it from paying the enterprises for its consumption of their
products.



The consequent cross-indebtedness brought normal operations to a standstill, with resulting
arrears on payments to (private) economic operators, including the banking system.
With the first assistance made available by IDA (Credit 665-MAU, approved in 1976), the
Government, with the help of advisors and consultants, conducted an initial series of surveys to
analyze sector problems and the situation in which the main enterprises found themselves. It became
clear that the chief difficulties were: management shortcomings, scale or organization unsuited to
the size of the market, and ambiguities in state/enterprise relations (contradictory goals, state
interference in enterprise management, and a lax approach to supervision or commitments).
In 1979, at the Government's request, a rehabilitation program was prepared for some 20
enterprises, while a series of reforms (mainly price adjustments) were introduced. The work begun
with proceeds of Credit 665-MAU was continued under a second credit (1292-MAU), which funded
in-depth studies and proposals for a plan to rehabilitate SONELEC, EMN and OPT.
In December 1982, the Government, noticing that the reforms undertaken had not produced
the expected results, and having become more aware of both the extent of the problems that had to
be faced and the need for a truly comprehensive sector policy, set up a high-level interministerial
committee with a mandate to develop a realistic and thoroughly researched sector-wide rehabilitation
strategy.
The committee's report, submitted in late September 1983, pointed out that the difficulties
confronting the enterprises were caused as much by the state (through its (i) interference in routine
management, (ii) frequent appointments and dismissals of directors, (iii) lack of monitoring and
follow-up, (iv) delays in paying its bills, and (v) rate freezes) as by the enterprises' own internal
inadequacies (mismanagement, incompetence and absence of motivation among senior staff, etc.).
By November 1983, the Government had adopted an emergency sector rehabilitation plan,
the two goals of which were payment of the state's delinquent accounts and restructuring of the
parastatal sector-to be achieved through the 12 measures listed in Annex 1.
2.3   Linkages between project, sector and policy objectives
The same emergency plan also served as one of the components of the economic and financial
recovery program the Government discussed with IDA and the IMF-a series of general measures
focused on public finance, exchange rates, public investment, domestic prices and restructuring of the
public enterprise sector.
Under Credit 1567-MAU, IDA was to help the Government-once the main objectives were
selected and certain preconditions were met-to devise a strategy for the sector and implement an
action plan for the rehabilitation of three vital enterprises: SONELEC, EMN and OPT.
It was estimated that a second project would be needed subsequently to sustain the
institutional reforms and sector rationalization proposed, and to help modernize other public
enterprises.
IDA believed that if the linkages between microeconomic and macroeconomic measures could
be made plain, then it would become obvious that future short-term assistance with the replacement



of plant and equipment was unlikely to be sufficient in itself, and that the problem of institutional
and legal reform must also be addressed if rehabilitation and sustainable development of the
Mauritanian economy were to be achieved.
3.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.1    Project objectives
The general objective of the project was to help the Government address technical and
financial difficulties apparent in the public enterprise sector. Its specific objectives were to:
(a)  devise measures and a medium-term strategy for sector modernization;
(b)  restructure the sector by reclassifying, closing down, privatizing and/or reorganizing
enterprises, as warranted;
(c)  redefine the relations between enterprises and the state by setting up a performance
contract system;
(d)  introduce reforms in the legal, regulatory and institutional framework that would reduce
ambiguities, clarify roles and responsibilities, encourage greater delegation of
responsibilities and make enterprises more autonomous;
(e)  grant emergency financing to two major enterprises and strengthen the institutional
structures of a third;
(f)  prepare medium-term modernization programs for those three enterprises and launch
similar programs for several others.
3.2    Project description
The project had four components, one covering management of the sector reform process and
one targeting each of the three enterprises, SONELEC, EMN and OPT.
A      Reform of the sector and its institutional framework
Intended to help the Government implement the first phase of its recovery program, this
component provided for: (i) technical assistance and a training program for the parastatal sector
rehabilitation unit (CRSP); (ii) studies on institutional reforms (restructuring, privatization,
liquidation) of sector enterprises; (iii) studies for the preparation of legal texts and performance
contracts; (iv) audits of enterprise accounts; (v) technical assistance with preparation of the second
phase of the Government's recovery program; (vi) payment of CRSP's equipment and operating costs.



B.    Assistance to SONELEC
This component provided the enterprise with substantial support for: (i) purchases of
equipment; (ii) reconditioning and extension of generation and distribution facilities; (iii) technical
assistance and training in all fields, with support from the EdF/CGE group; (iv) specific studies.
C.    Assistance to EMN
This component provided  EMN  with support for:  (i) purchases of equipment;
(ii) reconditioning its deepwater docking facility; (iii) technical assistance and training in accounting,
financial management, maintenance and port administration.
D.    Assistance to OPT
This component was designed to help OPT improve its financial management and prepare
a medium-term recovery plan, support which consisted of: (i) technical assistance and training;
(ii) purchase of computer hardware, software and supplies; (iii) studies.
4.    PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
4.1   Proiect development
The project was identified following a Bank appraisal mission to Mauritania in October and
November 1983. Negotiations between IDA and the Mauritanian Government were held from
February 19 to 22, 1985 in Washington, D.C. The Appraisal Report was submitted to the Executive
Directors of the Bank in March 1985. The credit became effective in March 1986.
The Credit Agreement between IDA and the Mauritanian Government, as well as the Project
Agreements IDA entered into with SONELEC, EMN and OPT, were signed on May 31, 1985.
Project Preparation Facility funding of SDR 1.03 million was provided so that prior conditions could
be met.
4.2   Evaluation of project design and organization
The Bank's work in appraising and designing the project was particularly valuable because it
helped: (i) to identify the range of problems confronting the country's public enterprises and
statutory bodies; (ii) to identify ways and means of assisting the Mauritanian authorities to rationalize
this sector (creation of CRSP and provision of consulting services) and to reform its institutional
framework.
The Appraisal Report also determined what SONELEC, EMN and OPT needs were as
regards essential investment in technical rehabilitation, technical assistance and consulting services.
The size of the credit, and the financing arrangements made with the other donors, were well adapted
to these needs.
Although the programming and sequencing of stages and activities were very logical, the
implementation schedule underestimated the time needed, particularly for institutional reforms.



However, the decision to entrust implementation to the enterprises themselves as separate
executing agencies was perhaps unrealistic in that (i) their organization was inadequate at the time of
project start-up, and (ii) they had no experience with IDA procedures and credit management methods.
In addition, CRSP was itself in the process of being set up at that stage and had not yet been tested.
5.    PROJECr IMPLEMENTATION
5.1    Actual project start-up
Although the Credit Agreement and Project Agreements were signed on May 31, 1985, actual
implementation did not commence until March 28, 1986, as the Borrower had not met prior conditions
by the date set initially (September 27, 1985). These conditions were: (i) opening of a revolving fund
and special account in the amount of UM 750,000; (ii) budget allocations covering CRSP operating
costs and the state's consumption of SONELEC and OPT products; (iii) approval of a new
organization chart by SONELEC's board of directors; and (iv) selection of the new permanent advisor
to CRSP.
5.2   Length of implementation period
While the date initially set for project completion was December 31, 1990, a postponement to
December 31, 1992 was necessary because credit proceeds had not been fully used. OPT had drawn
down only SDR 671,012 out of its initial allocation of SDR 990,000, leaving an available balance of
SDR 318,987, and although reallocated with IDA consent to SONELEC this balance was finally not
used. In addition, the international political situation in 1990 caused a slowing up in project activity.
5.3   Implementation historv
All studies and consulting services focused on sector rationalization and reform of the
institutional framework, and for which CRSP served as executing agency, were completed except in the
cases of SMAR, eight SEMs in the fishery sector, and the banking sector. Certain studies, though
completed, did not lead to plans of action or reforms: (i) the PE pay scale study; (ii) the human
resources development study; (iii) the study of budgetary procedures in public enterprises; and (iv) the
study on DTAF and CRSP computerization.
Concerning SONELEC, EMN and OPT, the project components were completed except for
the study on a medium-term recovery plan for OPT (executed with funds from another source), and
rehabilitation of the EMN wharf.
5.4   Costs and disbursements
Project costs totaled SDR 16.9 million (including a PPF advance of SDR 1.3 million). Taking
account of the activities that were not carried out by SONELEC and OPT, an overall undisbursed
balance of SDR 1,443,551.56 was cancelled, despite the fact that the completion date was extended
(see tables, Part III).
With respect to financial management of the credit, the following principal conclusions and
comments are offered in the closing audit report of June 29, 1993.



- 6 -
In general terms, with the exception of CRSP's, no separate accounts were established by the
different executing agencies to record operations under IDA Credit 1567-MAU, which were posted
following customary procedure in the general accounts of the three enterprises concerned.
The executing agencies did not appoint project managers or create special units to handle the
financial management of the credit. This function was performed in each enterprise by its financial
operations manager. As a result, and since the financial managers were unfamiliar with Bank
procedures, certain deficiencies were reported by the auditors, particularly in the area of internal
control.
Since these deficiencies were compounded by the fact that the executing agencies were unable
to present all necessary vouchers in support of withdrawals, the auditors were unable to certify the
financial statements. However, they believe, with certain reservations, that in EMN/PAN-PA's case
the funds were used to procure goods and services in a manner consistent with the credit agreement.
6.     PROJECT RESULTS
6.1    Objectives in view
The general project objective was to assist the Mauritanian authorities with the first phase of
economic rehabilitation of the public enterprise sector. More specific objectives were to:
(a)  Devise a PE sector rationalization strategy based on the identification of enterprises for
rehabilitation, privatization or liquidation.
(b)  Reform the sector legal and institutional framework so that state/enterprise relations
could be redefined in the context of performance contracts.
(c)  Grant emergency financing to two enterprises for their comprehensive rehabilitation and
to a third for strengthening of its management structure.
(d)  Prepare modernization programs for other enterprises.
6.2    Results achieved
Project results should be considered at two levels: that of the parastatal sector in general and
that of the three beneficiary enterprises.
A.    General sector reform
It would have been helpful to have had access to performance indicators expressed in figures
as a basis for measuring the results obtained in the area of sector reform: the project appraisal report
had defined a certain number of such indicators, such as (a) the number of enterprises by status (EPAs,
EPICs, SEMs); (b) the number of persons employed in the PEs, by specialty and grade level; and (c)
the financial aspects of relations between the Government and the enterprises, but it did not give
figures for the situation in 1985.



Since no database or performance chart has been established for the sector (although provision
was made for this in the project), it is quite impossible to make a financial assessment of the project-
generated overall improvements to the PE sector as of the end of 1991.
The assessment of the results will thus basically relate to the qualitative aspects of the
institutional framework and of the Government's management of the sector.
The project permitted the Government to benefit from the support of a specialized agency
(CRSP) to rely on the analysis and strategic coordination concerning restructuring and rationalization
of the sector. Reclassification of sector enterprises or statutory bodies into standardized categories
(SN, EPIC, EPA, SEM) was accomplished by CRSP on the basis of studies commissioned by it for this
purpose. In the process, the essential purposes and goals of SNs and EPICs, as well as the profitability
criteria for retaining SEMs in the Government's portfolio, were clarified.
The various types of studies (audits, assessments, recommendations), all undertaken with this
conceptual and methodological foundation in mind, resulted in the gradual tagging of one enterprise
after another for rehabilitation, privatization or liquidation. However, by the project's completion date
(planned or actual) there remained a number of enterprises on which this type of strategic decision had
still not been taken, particularly the SEM group.
The project also made it possible to carry out legal and institutional reforms by: (i) securing
adoption of a new Ordinance, No. 90/09, and its enabling decrees, which regulate the role and
responsibilities of the governing organs of public enterprises, although in practice application of these
provisions had only a very limited impact on relations between the supervisory agencies and the boards
of directors and general managers; and (ii) initiating the use of performance contracts, the first of
which was entered into with SONELEC.
Although considered one of the major sources of financial difficulty for public enterprises, the
recurring problem of cross-indebtedness was not completely resolved during the course of the project,
because of the inadequate amounts budgeted to cover the consumption of the Government's utility
services and the like (provided by SONELEC, SMCPP, Air Mauritania, OPT) and the substantial
increase in such consumption from one year to the next.
It should also be noted that some objectives were not achieved, despite the completion of
preliminary procedures and studies.  For instance:  (i) adoption by the enterprises of reliable
accounting procedures, forecasting methods and budget control systems; (ii) establishment of a
comprehensive information system (database) on the PE sector, for the benefit of DATF and CRSP;
and (iii) provision of a training program for senior PE staff.
B.    SONELEC
Given the results of in-depth diagnostic studies of all facets of SONELEC's operations, the
project included a major comprehensive rehabilitation program covering its (i) plant and equipment,
(ii) organization and management systems, (iii) human resources, and (iv) financial structure. In
addition, institutional and legal measures (autonomy of management; articles of incorporation) were
to complete the process, enabling SONELEC to achieve substantial technical and financial progress.



- 8 -
Thanks to the dedication and cooperation among SONELEC managers and staff, technical
assistants, IDA supervisory personnel and the other donors, almost all planned activities were
completed in time.
Activity in the technical area was focused essentially on:
- rehabilitation, modernization and extension of facilities for the production and distribution
of water in Nouakchott and Nouadhibou;
- rehabilitation, modernization and extension of facilities for the generation and distribution
of electric power in Nouakchott and Nouadhibou.
In the organizational and legal areas, SONELEC's organization chart was altered and new
articles of incorporation vested it with greater autonomy. A major training and skills development
program focused on staff at all levels and in various fields (both technical and managerial) was
introduced. In 1989, SONELEC became the first Mauritanian enterprise to sign a performance
contract with the state.
The combination of measures which made up this plan of action led to a notable improvement
in SONELEC's technical, commercial and financial performance, as may be seen from Annexes 2 to
10. It must, nevertheless, be stressed that the agency's rehabilitation should not be regarded as solidly
grounded, but as fragile and dependent: fragile because SONELEC has no physical and financial
resources in reserve and must therefore constantly optimize its operations in terms of output volume,
costs and rate schedules; and dependent because it still needs technical assistance and tax and customs
exemptions, and is vulnerable to fluctuating prices (or exchange rates) for its essential raw material (the
fuel oil that represents 45-50% of its operating costs).
Thanks to investments, technical assistance, training, and above all the involvement of the
management team and the cooperation among the various donors (CCCE, FAC, EDF, IDA),
SONELEC, whose financial situation had given serious cause for concern, was able to improve its
operations and its services and to obtain positive financial results in 1988.
An overview of the contributions and results of the project as applied to SONELEC should
be followed by an analysis of SONELEC's own results, with an assessment of the extent to which they
have (or have not) improved thanks to the project's input.
Such an analysis should compare the performance indicators defined by the appraisal report
at the time of project conception and design (1985) and the results at the end of the project in 1991.
Unfortunately, the appraisal report does not give the real statistics for 1985 for the indicators
proposed; moreover, SONELEC did not begin to have reliable performance charts until 1988, and then
only for certain indicators.
However, it is possible to analyze the principal figures available and to comment on them
(percentage changes between 1988 and 1991). All of the statistical data are shown in Annex 2.



1.    Electricity: Technical and commercial efficiency
Indicator                 1988               1991              Change
- gross generation GWh               99.5              117.1             +18%
- net generation                     93.5              112.3             +20%
- billing                            70.3               92.0             +31%
- billing (in UM millions)        1,262.0            1,761.0             +40%
- average sales price                18.0               19.2             +6%
(UMIkWh)
It will be noted that the indicators show a positive trend over the period, pointing up the
progress made in terms of technical and commercial efficiency, in particular in the area of billing.
The small increase in average prices per kWh (6%) over three years was due to the
Government's action to freeze prices. As we shall see, this action has had a negative impact on
SONELEC's financial results.
2.    Water: Technical and commercial efficiency
Indicator                          1988               1991            Change
- gross production Mm3               10,846.0           12,410.0            +14%
- net production Mm3                 10,793.0           11,766.0            + 9%
- billing                             6,191.0            8,380.0            +35%
- billing (in UM millions)              493.0              752.0           +53%
- average sales price (UM/M3)            79.0               89.7            +13%
As in the case of electricity, there is an improvement in performance at the levels of production
and turnover (also the result of higher prices).
Financial projections
Under the heading of financial projections, the appraisal report (Annex 5.1) estimated the
following net profit, assuming the introduction of measures to:
(a)  increase tariffs by 16% in 1985:
(b)  reduce staft costs by 10%;
(c)  reduce excessive ovcrtime by the equivalent of 7% of wages and salaries;
(d)  reduce gas-oil consumption to an average of 250 g/kWh in Nouakchott and 270 glkWh
in the other power plants;



- 10 -
(e) increase technical efficiency of the water system to 60% and of the electricity system to
88%;
(f) limit the investment program in 1985-89 to US$56 million.
Projected profit before tax (UM million), per appraisal report:
1988    1989   1990  1991  TOTAL
157     169    176   181   683 (cumulative profit)
Actual results after project start-up were as follows (UM millions):
1988    1989   1990  1991  TOTAL
-207.5  -709.9  142.2  61.4  -713.80 (cumulative loss)
It will thus be noted that there are substantial discrepancies between projected and actual
profit. Such discrepancies may be attributed to a variety of causes, for which SONELEC and/or the
Government may be held accountable.
First of all, the Government did not authorize SONELEC to increase its prices between 1988
and 1990, and the 1991 increase was very small (+6%).
In addition, while SONELEC was implementing a strategy designed to strengthen its technical
potential and increase its water and electricity production and billings, it was not making concurrent
efforts to reduce its costs and improve its financial and general management. During this time
SONELEC did not have an efficient management information system.
4.    Rate of return on investment program
The appraisal report used the Net Present Value (NPV) method to determine the profitability
of the project; using that method, it estimated the rate of return on the overall investment program
(water and electricity) at 44%.
The data in the profitability study were not recalculated during project implementation.
However, such updating would have been helpful, given (i) the delays in project start-up; (ii) the major
changes in the investment timetable; and (iii) SONELEC's financial operating losses in 1988 and 1989.
By the end of the project (1991), the investment program actually implemented by SONELEC
totaled UM 4,124 million; cumulative results showed a loss of UM 713,8 million during the period
1988/1991.
Since SONELEC did not precisely quantify its long-term investment plans or its projected profit
(over a period equivalent to the life of its investments), it is impossible at present to recalculate the
rate of return on those investments.



- 11 -
However, it may be concluded that the rate of return gap is certainly very large. There are two
reasons for this: (i) the high rate given in the appraisal report was the result of overoptimistic
hypotheses; (ii) SONELEC's poor rate of return is attributable, as already mentioned, to the
Government's pricing policy and to a low overall level of output on SONELEC's part.
C.    EMN
The project provided for comprehensive technical and financial assistance for EMN to enable
it to (i) purchase turnover (also the result of higher prices), essential handling equipment, (ii) repair
infrastructure, (iii) set up organizational and management systems (some computerized), and (iv) recruit
personnel qualified in various fields, all with a view to rehabilitation of its operations and improvement
of its financial results.
Most planned activities and assistance measures were completed: handling and transport
equipment were procured; technical assistance designed and organizational and management systems
in the areas of accounting set up; facilities administration and port operation were started; some
procedures were automated; and an ambitious program to train and recruit qualified supervisory staff
was also established. Despite the specific recommendations resulting from the technical study
conducted, however, reconditioning of the deepwater docking facility (wharf) was not undertaken.
In the meantime, the deepwater port (PAN-PA) came into operation. The strategy to be
followed with respect to the two entities, which entailed the takeover of EMN by PAN-PA, was
defined on the basis of an in-depth study financed under the credit. PAN-PA thus had the benefit of
inheriting EMN's physical and human resources, which enabled it to start up its port activities
successfully while retaining the wharf for certain operations.
Nevertheless, by the project completion date PAN-PAlEMN's situation was still not fully
consolidated, numerous measures still remaining to be taken with respect to (i) financial matters,
(ii) personnel, (iii) tariffs, and (iv) handling and warehousing. The new credit (2167-MAU) will make
it possible to complete a number of them, thereby enabling PAN-PA to play its role as port authority
fully, in accordance with the performance contract signed with the state in 1992.
As in the case of SONELEC, the changes in EMN's performance indicators should be
examined in light of the project's activities and support.
It is interesting to look at EMN's statistics over the period immediately preceding the project;
however, the measurement of its performance will be time-bound, since in 1987, i.e. one year after
project start-up, EMN merged with PAN-PA (deepwater port) so that the data were no longer
homogeneous or significant as a reflection of project impact.



- 12 -
EMN Results and Performance
INDICATORS                  1983       1984       1985      1986       1987
Tonnage:
Total                     304,463 t  357.323 t 353.333 t  370,512 t  443,300 t
In roads                  89,761 t   110,937 t 091,939 t   59,485 t  None (a)
Wharf                     214,702 t  246,390 t 261,394 t  311,027 t  443,200 t
Number of trips                   150         164      150        170        194
Daily handling average           787 t      889 t   1,083 t    1,136 t    1,284 t
Yield per 8-hour team          NA (b)       153 t     187 t      192 t     204 t
Number of days waiting (total)    929         864      864        316         84
Average waiting by ship           6.19       5.27      4.71       1.86       0.4
Equipment availability rate      51%         52%       68%       70%        72%
(a) None, since cargo vessels were all redirected in 1987 to Port de l'Amitie
(b) [not indicated]
However, it may be concluded that the project enabled EMN to improve its results in terms
of overall tonnage and of reduced ship waiting time.
Where EMN's financial results are concerned, it is impossible to analyze the situation, since
EMN was unable to provide the PCR mission with any financial records for the period 1986-88.
D.    OPT
The project provided for OPT to receive general assistance in (i) improving its financial
management and (ii) drawing up a medium-term rehabilitation plan. The specific objectives were to
give OPT a cost accounting system (separating postal and telecommunications accounts) and billing and
inventory management systems, appropriately computerized. These moves were designed to pave the
way for sound financial management and a reorganization. Actual results after project start-up were
as follows (UM millions): strategy calling for separation of the agency's activities and new investments
to modernize them.
Actual results:
On completion of the project, it was evident that this integrated approach had been only
partially applied insofar as the use of IDA assistance. Furthermore, the funds allocated for this
category had not been fully utilized, a balance of SDR 318,987 remaining.
As a result of the project, OPT now utilizes:
- acceptable general accounting procedures;
- accounting hardware and software;



- 13 -
- two computerized billing systems (mutually incompatible; the earlier one is no longer used,
and its customer data have not been retrieved);
-  trained computer staff.
Despite (or because of) this situation, it is not always possible to obtain a picture of the
agency's operations costs and improve its financial and general management. During this time
SONELEC did not have an efficient from a cost-center standpoint (postal service, telecommunications,
savings bank); consolidated annual management information system. financial statements are still
produced well behind schedule; and external auditors still express numerous reservations regarding the
reliability of the accounts.
Since none of the performance indicators defined in the appraisal report was used by OPT
during the project period, it is impossible to measure the economic impact and rate of return of the
investments financed by Credit 2167-MAU.
No performance contract has so far been signed with the State.
These gaps between OPT's planned and actual results stem essentially from: (i) the design of
the project; using that method, it estimated the rate of return on the overall investment program (water
and (assistance limited to the finance and accounting functions); (ii) failure to involve management in
IDA's assistance electricity) at 44%. strategy, on the pretext of the agency's (relatively) sound financial
condition; and (iii) the availability of very substantial investment funding from other donors.
6.3    Variances between planned and actual results
The variances in project results can be attributed to the following causes: (i) the ambitious
nature of the project given the situation prevailing at the institutional level and within the enterprises
themselves, (ii) the number and complexity of project activities (23 disbursement categories), (iii) the
shortage of human resources qualified in this area, (iv) inexperience of the executing agencies in
management of this type of credit and their unfamiliarity with Bank procedures, (v) the institutional
contcxt, (vi) world political events in 1990.
6.4    Project impact
In the absence of precise data on the pre-and post-evaluation periods of the project, it is
dil hcult to do an assessment of the general impact of the project itself. Nevertheless, rationalization
of the public sector, by reducing the burden the public enterprises place on the national budget, will
likely contribute to gradual achievement of the goals of the structural adjustment program.
In more qualitative and conceptual terms, it can also be assumed that the project, since it
resulted in the promotion of some senior counterpart staff to top leadership posts in the Government,
will have a multiplying effect on development of the type of managerial and entrepreneurial culture
which is indispensable if sector performance is to improve.
Finally, Project 1567-MAU, as originally intended, paved the way for a more detailed and
systematic second stage, funded under two further World Bank lending operations, namely a Public



- 14 -
Enterprise Sector Adjustment Project (Credit 2166 MAU) and a Public Enterprise Sector Institutional
Development and Technical Assistance Project (Credit 2167 MAU), both dated July 18, 1990.
7.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILlTY
The sustainability of the project, as well as any risk factors, must be appraised at different levels
according to its components.
7.1    General sustainability at sector level
In general terms, the project laid the groundwork for (i) a rational public enterprise
management culture in the supervisory agencies (CRSP in the Ministry of Planning and DTAF in the
Ministry of Finance), and (ii) sound use of consulting services, audit reports and diagnostic studies as
the basis for providing the Government with advice and recommendations on the subject of the public
enterprises. "Knowledge capital" of this type is a potentially valuable asset, considering the reforms
and decisions still required insofar as this sector is concerned.
7.2   Sustainability at enterprise level (SONELEC. EMN, OPT)
Sustainability varies from one enterprise to another.
A.    SONELEC
By the project completion date (originally 1990, when Credit 2167-MAU was to take immediate
effect), SONELEC possessed substantial technical and human assets with which to pursue its
rehabilitation and subsequent development. However, four essential conditions need to be met if these
advantages are to be consolidated and the enterprise is to be able to press ahead with its efforts:
(i) identical types of assistance must continue to be available (through Credit 2167-MAU); (ii) present
management efforts in all fields must persevere; (iii) tariffs must be based on real generation costs; and
(iv) the state must respect its obligations under the performance contract (in particular, prompt
payment for consumed services).
B.    EMN
EMN no longer exists legally, having been merged with PAN-PA It is therefore difficult to
measure the precise effects of the project. H lowever, PAN-PA is now clearly benefiting indirectly from
the project: for instanice, it is currently using many items of equipment funded in the name of EMN,
while the core of its computerized management system was inherited from EMN. As with SONELEC,
the effects of the project can only he sustained through a consolidation effort, supported -in this case,
too- by Credit 2167-MAU.
C.    OPT
For OPT, sustainability hinges on (i) maintenance of computer systems, (ii) use of and
compliance with accounting procedures, and (iii) retention of senior staff trained under the project.
But all three factors will have little impact on the agency's financial performance unless they are



- 15 -
regarded as vital components (and not merely as formal requirements) of a fully reorganized financial
management system.
7.3    Risk factors
The risk factors that might have affected project sustainability would have come into play had
assistance to the beneficiary enterprises been discontinued before their rehabilitation was complete.
However, new technical assistance arrangements for public sector reform (Credit 2167-MAU) came
into effect in time to help consolidate the work started with this initial project.
8.  BANK PERFORMANCE
Meaningful appraisal of the Bank's role in project design and follow-up requires that a
distinction be made once again between (i) the sector in general and (ii) SONELEC, EMN and OPT
in particular.
8.1    Bank performance with regard to sector reform
Through this project, IDA has made a significant contribution to reform and rationalization of
the public enterprise sector. The institutional and legal reforms introduced, the created planning and
support agency (CRSP), and the methods and means of assistance utilized were such as to allow
(i) upgrading of the performance of some public enterprises (particularly SONELEC), and
(ii) extension of the process to all the other enterprises at a later stage.
Bank supervision missions also contributed decisively to the success of the project, especially
as far as general coordination and the reprogramming of certain activities were concerned. However,
more consideration of the human factor and stiffer requirements relative to the professional
qualifications of PE management staff, technical assistance personnel and consultants would perhaps
have ensured that efforts in certain areas were more effective.
8.2    Bank performance with regard to the three beneficiary enterprises
A.    SONELEC
IDA's performance was particularly remarkable for the continuity and substantive nature of the
assistance made available, for the leadership provided, and for efficient coordination with the other
donors (specifically CCCE, FAC, EDF and EIB).
B.    EMN
Here, too, IDA played a major role by providing (and subsequently agreeing to transfer of) the
technical resources and organizational facilities essential for PAN-PA's takeover of EMN and start-up
of the new entity.



- 16 -
C.    OPT
The Bank's performance was not fully successful in this case:  the agency's financial
management did not improve, despite introduction of the planned accounting systems.
8.3    Lessons learned from the project.
This project was very ambitious given the situation prevailing at the institutional level and
within the enterprises themselves. Several lessons may be drawn from its implementation and results.
The first lesson is that when a project is a large and complex one it is preferable to have only
one executing agency, which should be experienced in management of this type of credit and familiar
with the Bank's procedures.
The second lesson is that one should not underestimate the difficulties or the time involved in
implementing institutional reforms when they comprise major changes in responsibilities and authority
and also in the obligations of enterprise managers vis-&-vis government and donors.
The third lesson concerns the importance of the human factor in the success of a project. In
this connection, it is important that a very realistic assessment be made right at the start of present and
potential future human resource capacities It should not be taken for granted that as soon as the
proper training is provided those capacities are all automatically going to improve.
The fourth lesson is a corollary to the third: it is essential that the government be very careful
about the choice of the management teams of beneficiary enterprises, and ensure that throughout the
project those teams remain concerned with the government's objectives and reform strategy and not
simply with its material contributions.
Lastly, it is important to stress the very great importance of having the Bank monitor operations
systematically, rather than treating this aspect simply as a formality. For this purpose, the following
elements are essential: (i) good follow-through by the task manager, (ii) effective coordination among
Bank experts in different technical fields, (iii) a standardized methodology for supervision missions
based on the comparison of actual with estimated results, planning of activities still outstanding, a work
timetable, and the effective distribution of tasks. In the case of a large and complex project, it would
be advisable to arrange to hold a formal mid-term review with the Government to explore possible
programming changes.
9.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
9.1    Performance during project appraisal and design
The contribution by the Mauritanian authorities and the beneficiary enterprises was particularly
significant at the project appraisal and design stage, thanks mainly to their previous experience with
technical assistance projects in the public enterprise sector (Credits 665-MAU of 1976 and 1292-MAU
of 1982). It is to be regretted that OPT was handled differently from SONELEC and EMN, with a
sectoral instead of a more comprehensive approach being taken.



- 17 -
Actually, OPT's technical and financial situation gave less cause for alarm than that of the other
two, but the financial stakes were high enough for an integrated approach and systematic coordination
with the other donors to have been chosen at the outset.
9.2    Performance during project implementation and follow-up
Although not all project objectives were met (see Part III) and some work ran behind schedule,
Borrower performance was generally good where reform of the sector's institutional and legal
framework, and rehabilitation of SONELEC and EMN, were concerned.
The Ministry of Planning and CRSP showed notable dedication in project implementation and
follow-up, even though they did not always receive energetic cooperation from some supervising
technical ministries or the enterprises themselves.
9.3    Lessons learned by the Borrower
It seems that the lessons drawn from this project had to do with: (i) concepts and methods of
business management; (ii) an understanding of the relationship between an enterprise's performance
and its institutional and socio-political environment; and (iii) the role of enterprises in economic
development.
A.    Performance of enterprises
It became obvious (at least to the Ministries of Planning and Finance) that if enterprises are
to perform well they have to formulate strategies consistent with their goals and to apply efficient
management methods across the board. This requires real autonomy of action against the backdrop
of performance contracts, as well as motivated and competent leadership.
B.    Institutional framework
For an enterprise to develop and improve its performance it must be able to operate within
a favorable economic and institutional framework. It is therefore essential that any project designed
to restructure public enterprises clearly define not only the relevant strategies and action plans but also
all parallel measures in the area of institutional reform. Failure to establish this linkage could result
in a great deal of effort being expended to very little avail.
C.    Macroeconomic development
Macroeconomic development grows not only out of political will but also out of the results
achieved by all economic intermediaries, who must have the freedom to organize and develop their
activities within a planning environment that is not only flexible but also provides incentives.
Even if these "lessons" are accepted and disseminated among the partners in the sector (the
state, government agencies and public enterprises), the longest and most difficult task will be to
incorporate them into day-to-day reality.



- 18 -
10.   PROJECT RELATIONSHIPS
10.1   Cooperation between Bank and Borrower
Relations between Bank and Borrower were particularly good throughout the project, reflecting
the goodwill characteristics of responsible partners who intend to fulfill their separate obligations and
cooperate in a joint task.
10.2   Cooperation between Bank and other donors
Relations between the Bank and other donors (CCCE, FAC, EDF, EIB) were exemplary,
particularly with respect to SONELEC.
11.   CONSULTING SERVICES, SUPPLIERS AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
The equipment procured, technical assistance services provided and studies conducted as part
of the project were particularly useful and effective as far as SONELEC and EMN were concerned.
The audit services were satisfactory also. However, some studies, notably those on the
information system (for use by DTAF and CRSP), were unsatisfactory; others, including those on pay
scales and human resource development (PE professional staff), failed to produce any action-although
the entire blame for this cannot be laid on the consulting firms.
12.   PROJECT DOCUMENTATION
The highly explicit nature of the Appraisal Report and its detailed annexes (plan of action),
the Credit Agreement, and the Project Agreements with SONELEC, EMN and OPT was a major
factor in the successful implementation of this project.
However, some supervision missions might have been more accurate in reporting on progress
with the implementation process if they had made systematic comparisons against the original project
plan and timetable.



- 19 -
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1567-MAU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
I.    CONTEXT
The policy adopted by Mauritania in the sixties and seventies for the development of its
parapublic sector did not produce the desired results. In fact it left a heavy burden of debt on the
public finances. Several diagnostic studies were carried out, stressing oversizing and poor management
as the basic reasons for the failure of that policy. Since 1989, the Mauritanian Government has been
working with IDA in an attempt to revive the sector.
In 1985, the Economic and Financial Recovery Program was instituted, marking the start of a
process of reorientation of the macroeconomic framework toward liberalization of the economy. Since
that time, Government intervention, when justified for strategic reasons, has been subject in all cases
to the strict standards of private management.
Within this framework, the Public Enterprise Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 1567-MAU) was designed as a means of formulating a global strategy for the sector and
promoting the recovery of three large priority enterprises: SONELEC, EMN and OPT. In the case
of the other enterprises, the Government was to take certain rehabilitative measures to tide them over
before deciding at a later stage on more pragmatic solutions to their problems.
II.    PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
The project appraisal accurately pinpointed the essential investments in the area of technical
rehabilitation. But technical assistance requirements were overestimated, while the experience of the
technical staff of the enterprises themselves was underrated.
III.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.1  Credit balance
As confirmed in thc detailed report on the credit accounts at December 31, 1992, the actual
closing date, the project ligures matched the appraisal estimates.  Hence the balance of
SDR 1,443,551.56 should bc canceled.



- 20 -
IV.   PROJECT RESULTS
4.1   Objectives in view
The project was intended to:
(a)  formulate a strategy to rationalize the enterprise sector, identifying enterprises to be
rehabilitated, privatized or liquidated, setting up reliable accounting procedures and
forecasting and budget control systems, and introducing an exhaustive information system
for the sector;
(b)  reform the legal and institutional framework to redefine the relationship between the
Government and the public enterprises on the basis of performance contracts;
(c)  grant emergency financing to two enterprises for their overall rehabilitation, and to a
third for reinforcement of its management structure;
(d)  prepare modernization programs for other public enterprises.
4.2   Actual results
A. Sector reform
-  specialized activity on CRSP's part in the analysis and strategic review of actions to
restructure and rationalize the sector, and in the coordination of the various study components (audits,
diagnostic surveys, recommendations), resulting in a definition of an appropriate strategic orientation
for public enterprises;
-  adoption of a new legal system for public enterprises;
-  inauguration of the performance contract procedure with signature  of SONELEC's
performance contract;
-  bilateral recognition of cross debts, with partial settlement in some cases.
B. Public enterprises
(a) SONELEC
-  new articles of incorporation granting greater management autonomy;
-  action in support of the Nouakchott and Nouadhibou water networks;
-  staff training programs;
-  signature of a performance contract in 1989.



- 21 -
(b) EMN/PANPA
- purchase of handling and transportation equipment;
- design, putting in place and organization of the management system, with computerization
of accounting and management activities;
- study on PANPA's takeover of/merger with EMN.
(c) OPT
There is an undisbursed balance of SDR 318,987 initially allocated to OPT.
Nevertheless, the project made it possible to install a general accounting system and related
computerized facilities at OPT, and to provide it with a billing system and with training for the
operators involved in those areas.
4.3 Variances
- there was no systematic sector-wide definition of individual enterprise strategies;
- the new legal system for public enterprises was not fully implemented;
- the audits of OPT's accounts reveal a recurrence of the anomalies noted.
4.4 Reasons for variances
- underestimation, by those framing the objectives, of the impact of the sector's institutional
environment;
- inexperience of public enterprises, and in particular of OPT, in the management of this type
of credit;
- events on the international political scene.
V.    IMPACT OF THE PROJECT
The project made it possible to reduce certain costs to the Government budget. It contributed
indirectly to achievement of the PAS objectives by supporting the private sector and rehabilitating
enterprises providing vital services essential to economic activity.
It also represented a preparatory phase, paving the way for introduction of the more
thoroughgoing and systematic reforms of the Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program, launched
in 1990 with the support of credits 2166-MAU and 2167-MAU. The project's sustainability is thus
assured through the consolidation and amplification of its positive impacts in the form of the PASEP.



- 22 -
VI.   EXPERIENCE OF CRSP
6.1  Performance
CRSP is a key planning and support tool within the sector reform framework. It has made
significant contributions to the success of actions undertaken, serving both to boost and to coordinatc
project activities. This development of CRSP's role as supporter and coordinator has been to the
benefit of Government and donors alike. It has discharged its functions vis-A-vis both donors and
government agencies to their full satisfaction.
6.2  Prospects
This "knowledge capital" should be maintained even after project completion, so that it may
have a continued impact on the management of the enterprises and on the overall economic context.
VII.  LESSONS LEARNED FROM THE PROJECT
7.1  By the Islamic Republic of Mauritania
7.1.1 Concerning design and appraisal
Care should be taken not to underestimate the quality of the contribution of the local staff,
whose involvement has had a positive impact on project implementation.
In light of OPT's positive net financial results, indicators other than the financial situation
should be considered, such as certain operating ratios.
OPT did not receive sufficient attention from the Government, although restructuring of its
management could multiply its direct contributions to the public finances and/or enable it to increase
its self-financing capacity.
7.1.2 Project experience in general
The relationship between management of the enterprises and their legal and institutional system
is now clear. For an enterprise to turn in a good performance, it must have the necessary management
autonomy.
The relationship is becoming more and more internalized as a set of mutually agreed
obligations, following the performance contract model.



- 23 -
VIII. RELATIONSHIPS AND COOPERATION DURING THE PROJECT
8.1  Relations between the Islamic Republic of Mauritania and the donors
During the course of the project, relations between the Islamic Republic of Mauritania and the
donors were exemplary, and their cooperation was particularly effective where SONELEC was
concerned.
8.2  With the other players
The suppliers brought in by the project all gave satisfaction, as did the consultants. But the
persistence of certain problems that were left to the technical assistants leads one to believe that the
appraisal did not accurately identify the needs in this area.
Also, the annual visits of the World Bank's supervision mission were always marked by a spirit
of cordiality and cooperation.



- 24 -
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1567-MAU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART III - INFORMATION AND STATISTICS
RELATED BANK CREDITS
CREDIT TITLE                OBJECTIVE            YEAR OF APPROVAL                 STATUS
Cr. 665-MAU                Finance a review of the             1976                    Completed
sector and carry out
diagnostic studies/audits
of some 20 enterprises in
1979.
Credits 2166-MAU and       Support for public                  1990                   Supervision
2167-MAU                  enterprise reform and
rehabilitation
a.                                        PROJECT TIMETABLE
STAGE                SCHEDULED DATE              ACTUAL DATE
Identification                       1982
Preparation                          1983
Appraisal                            1983                  October 1983
Negotiation14     Februa  19, 1985
Board Approval                       1985                 March 26, 1985
Signature                            1985                  May 31, 1985
Effectiveness                        1985                 March 28, 1986
Closing                              1990               December 31, 1992
Completion report                    1991                 November 1993



- 25 -
3.                                      CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
CATEGORY            DlSCWR-'fIN            AMOUNT           PERC1tfNAGE           ACMTAL          DIFERENCE (SDR)
ALIICATED (SDR)       COVERED          D{;BURSIWMENIS
(%DR)
Sector reform
1B        Consultants                     2,060,000         100%                1,536,329.63
2         Training                          110,000        100%                   89,208.80
3         Equipment                         60,000    100%'/75% 40,'             179,759.17
4         CRSP Audits                       30,0(X)         75%                   38,438.54
5         CRSP operations                   160,000        100%                  282,902.40
6         CRSP higher-level                310,000                               196,733.83
staff salaries
100% foreign supplies
covered                         2,730,000                            2,323,372.34      -406,627.66
75% local supplies
covered
SONELEC Support
8         NKT water                       2,720,000    100%1 or 75%             1,194,200.84
infrastructure
7         Nouakchott water system           160,000        100%                 1,142,853.37
works
Water supply and
services
9A         Nouadhibou water
system
9B         Piped network                   2,360,000        90%                  1,630,813.98
9C         Pumping station                 1,230,000     100%*/7S%                0
Works/system                     310,000         100%                  0
Technical assistance
IOA        Part B.2                         310,000         100%                  503,039.34
10B        Other                            720,000          70%                 4,443,274.80
11        Training                          210,000         70%                   44,299.22
12        Audits                            110,000         60%                   64,471.83
8,430,000                            9,022,953.44     +892,953.44
EMN Support
13        Equipment (C.2)                    90,000         75%                   81,263.12
14        Supplies                        1,260,000         100%                1,455,608.09
15        Technical assistance            1,000,000         90%                  676,666.27
16        Training                          140,000         90%                   42,500.07
17        Audits                             50,000         60%                   58,983.28
2,540,000                            2,315,020.83     -224,979.17
OPT Support
18        Supplies                          110,000         100%                   98,559.00
19        Technical assistance              470,000         90%                   357,853.95
20        Training                          260,000         90%                    79,102.66
21        Audits                            150,000         60%                   138,353.49
990,000                              673,869.10      -316,130.90
PPF and unallocated
PPF repayment
22        Special account deposit          1,030,000                              860,380.90
23         Unallocated                      260,000                               260,000.00
______________   _______________________   1,220,000           1                   1
2,510,000                            1,120,380.90       -1,389,619.10
GRAND TOTAL                    16,900,000                           15,455,596.58       -1,444,403.40
' 100% covered when the supplies are of foreign origin
75% covered when the supplies are of local origin



- 26 -
4.                          PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
ACTIVITIES                         ESTIMATED        ACTUAL
DATE           DATE
(A) Sector reform
- Support to CRSP/manager training                     1985 to 1987       1987
- PE classification                                        1986           1987
- SOMECOB, SMAR specific studies                                           No
- Fishing sector study                                                     No
- Banking sector study                                                     No
- Inter-agency debts (methodology)
- Corporate law reform (powers and responsibilities,
management and oversight bodies)
- Wage structure study
- Budget procedures study
- Management information system study (PE database)                _
(B) SONELEC
- Technical assistance                                                  be an in
1984; still
- Technical studies                                                     ongoing
- Training
- Modernization
* Nouadhibou water system
* Nouakchott water system
* Nouakchott electricity system
* Nouadhibou electricity system
(C) EMN
- Technical assistance
- Training                                                            1986 to 1987
- Studies
- Wharf berth modernization
- Handling equipment
- Maintenance equipment
- Office equipment
(D) OPT
- Technical assistance                                                1988 to 1989
- Training
- Purchase of computers and software                                  1989 to 1990
- LT recovery plan consultant                                             1990
- Audits                                                                not done
1989 & 1990



- 27 -
5.    PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
TOTAL IN U.S. DOLLARS MILLIONS
I3TrMATED COTSI          LOCAL CURRENCY               FOREIGN EXCHANGE                  TOTAL
Component      es*himfd    rewd      actl    eatlhmned    iied    actua    esdinad    rved
Sector reform         0.6                            2.6                         3.2
SONELEC               2.1                           12.8                        14.9
EMN                   0.2                            3.3                         3.5
OPT                   0.2                            0.8                          1
Total base cost       3.1                           19.5                        22.6
Provisions for               N/A 1/   N/A j.    N/A l]   N/A jj                         N/A       N/A 1/
contingencies         0.2                            1.4                          1.6
Price escalation
provision             0.7                            4.3                         5
Total project         4                             25.2                        29.2
cost                                                                       ..               .
FINANCING PLAN
LOCAL CURRENCY               FOREIGN EXCHANGE                      TOTAL
(MILLIONS OF DOLIARS)
fDA                                      0.5                           15.9                          16.4
CCCE                                                                    3                             3
FAC                                                                     0.9                           0.9
EDF                                                                     1.3                           1.3
FIB                                                                     4                             4
Government &
enterprises                              3.5                            0.2                           3.7
ToLal I          __________________________4                           25.2                          29.2
IBRD FISCAL YEAR
Estimated disbursements      1986      1987     1988      1989      1990
(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)
Annual disbursements           2.6  T   4.1       5.1       3.7      0.9
Cumulative disbursements       2.6      6.7      11.8      15.5     16.4
1/ Figures not available at the time of PCR completion.



- 28 -
6.    PROJECT RESULTS
COMPONENT: SECTOR REFORM
GENERAL CONTROL INDICATORS                             UTILIZATION
Classification of enterprises
(a) Number of EPAPs, EPICs and SEMs
b Number of transfers, liquidations and privatizations
Total staff in PEs by category and grade
Information not
available as of the
closing date of the
project
State arrears vis-a-vis enterprises
(a) Budget credits
b) Amounts invoiced to date
c Consumption
Payments to date
e Outstanding balance
Inter-agency debts
(a) Amount settled through compensation
b Amount settled through rescheduling
c Amount remaining to e settled
d)Outstanding balance to be paid
Status of projects
(a) Contracts awarded (commitments)
b Amounts invoiced under the terms of a contract
c Amounts submitted for repayment or direct payment
d Amounts paid/repaid
c) Status of execution by contract



- 29 -
(A) SONELEC monitoring indicators
GENERAL QUARTERLY INDICATORS                            UTILIZATION
Water production/electricity production (m3/kWh)
Water sales/electricity sales (m3/kWh)
Water sales/electricity sales (ouguiya)
System efficiency (water and electricity) in %
Number and amount of unpaid water and electricity bills (from the
previous quarter).
Number of cutoffs of water and electricity owing to unpaid invoices
(from the previous quarter)
Number of resumptions of service for electricity and water following
the payment of arrears (from the previous quarter) and total amount
collected (from the previous quarter).
Number of meters in service (water and electricity)
Number of repaired meters (water and electricity)
Number of meters installed (new and repaired; water and electricity)
Replacement of water pipes (length, diameter, materials)
Specific consumption of fuel by each power station (g/kWh)
Energy restriction as a percentage of energy delivered
Availability rate for each diesel unit
Number of isolation defects per 10 km of cables in the distribution
network
Actual maintenance vs scheduled maintenance
Personnel (number, names and skills mix of managers and support
personnel (technicians) and expatriate specialists, as well as number
and skills mix of workers and wage bill) for water and electricity
Operating expenses (water and electricity)
Total receipts (water and electricity)
Installation of an electricity network insulation system (number)
Replacement of electricity network cables (length, sector, materials)



- 30 -
ANNUAL INDICATORS                              UTILIZATION
Operating ratios (water and electricity)
Gearing ratio (water and electricity)
Gross self-financing capacity (water and electricity)
Net self-financing capacity (water and electricity)
Amounts receivable by category of clients and classification of arrears
by age (water and electricity)
(B) SONELEC results and performancc
See Annexes 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 of the SONELEC evaluation reports.
(C) EMN monitorinig indicators
ANNUAL INDICATORS                              IJTILIZATION
Cargo handled (in tons) by category of merchandise and type of
operation (berthed at wharf or at anchor)
Total staff:
- Permanent staff
- Temporary staff
Tonnage (excluding bulk cement) per day of work and team
Ship waiting time (berthed at anchor)
Average time spent by merchandise in port
Availability of cargo handling equipment
Receipts and expenditures vs budget
Average rates per ton and category of merchandise
Amounts receivable and payable by main clients/suppliers/governments
Overdrafts/bank balances
Annual financial indicators:
- Operating ratio
- Liquidity ratio
- Debt ratio
- Debt service



- 31 -
(D) EMN results and performan
INDICATORS                     1983            1984            1985             1986            1987
Tonnage:
Total                                     304,463 t      357,323 t        353,333 t        370,512 t       443,200 t
In roads                                   89,761 t      110,937 t         91,939 t         59,485 t       None (a)
Wharf                                     214,702 t      246,390 t        261,394 t        311,027 t      443,200 t
tb)
Number of ships                                 150             164             150              170             194
Daily handling average                         787 t          889 t           1,083 t         1,136 t         1,284 t
Yield per 8-hour team                         NA(c)           153 t            187 t            192 t          204 t
Number of days waiting (total)                  929             864             706              316              84
Average waiting by ship                         6.19           5.27             4.71             1.86            0.4
Equipment availability rate                    51%             52%             68%              70%             72%
a) None, since cargo vessels were all redirected in 1987 to Port de l'Amitie
b) not indicated]
c) inot indicated]
(E) OPT monitoring indicators
Staff and wage bill                                         Personnel and training (position, skills, nature, placement, etc.)
- Telecommunications                                      in the Finance Office.
- Postal services/financial services
- Joint services
Amounts receivable: classification of AIR by age            Annual financial indicators:
- Government                                                - Rate of return
- Parapublic sector                                         - Operating ratio
- Private sector                                            - Liquidity ratio
Net liability (financial services
Collections and invoicing:                                  Rates by branch
- Government
- Parapublic sector
- Private sector
Suspensions, disconnections, by category of client          Telecommunications:
- Operating costs/direct connection line
- Operating receipts/direct connection line
- Maintenance costs/direct connection line
- Net assets/direct connection line
Number of direct connection lines
(F) OPT results and performance: Indicators not available



- 32 -
7. STATIJS OF COVENANTS
AGREEMENT       SECnON         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF COVENANTS         IDEAD-       COMPUANCE
UNE
Credit           2.02(c)      Borrower shall maintain a bank account in          Yes
UM in a commercial bank
Credit           2.05(a)      Borrower shall pay a commitment charge of          Yes
2.05        0.50%
Credit           2.06         Borrower shall pay a service charge of             Yes
0.75% per annum
Credit           3.01 (a)     Borrower declares its commitment to the            Yes
project objectives, and, to this end, shall
carry out Part A of the project through
CRSP, in conformity with efficient
management practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, funds, services and
other resources without restriction
Credit           3.01 (b)     Borrower shall assist SONELEC, EMN and             Yes
OPT in the employment of independent
auditors as required under the project
agreements
Credit           3. 01 (c)    Maintain CRSP within MINPLAN with such             Yes
functions and responsibilities as shall be
acceptable to IDA, with a Director, an
external adviser, and competent staff
Cause CRSP to supervise the experts                Yes
employed, coordinate all project activities,
and collaborate with the Ministry of Finance
________________  and  the  other ministries
Credit           3.01 (d)     Provide notification of utilization of the credit  OK
according to the specified categories, and of
signature of the subsidiary loan agreements
with SONELEC, EMN and OPT with the
interest rates and for the periods specified
Credit           3.02         Borrower shall employ experts whose                Yes
qualifications shall be satisfactory to IDA,
selected in accordance with the Bank's 1981
Guidelines
Credit           3.03         Borrower shall organize an intensive training      Yes
program for the staff of CRSP and of the
bTAF of the Ministry of Finance, under
arrangements approved by the Bank
Credit           3.05         Borrower shall review with IDA the                 Yes
recommendations resufting from studies and
shall implement those measures which shall
be satisfactory to Borrower and IDA
Credit           3.06         Borrower shall take all measures, through  1985    A performance
CRSP, in collaboration with IDA, for               contract for
signature of a program-contract with               SONELEC was
SONELEC and EMN, not later than the end            signed in 1989 and
of 1985                                            for PAN-PA in 1992
Credit           4.01 (b)     CRSP shall maintain separate accounts for          Yes
Part A of the project, and shall retain all
supporting records
4.01(c)     Borrower shall have the project accounts            Closing audit
audited every year, and shall furnish the          completed in 1993
certified audits to IDA



- 33 -
Credit          4.02         Borrower shall transfer the support and          Yes
benefits granted to EMN to the new port
Credit           4.03        Borrower shall make budgetary provisions         Partially yes, since
to ensure that the Government and the            the large increase In
public agencies settle in full their bills for   budget provisions
consumption to SONELEC, EMN, and OPT             did not keep pace
with consumption
and price increases
Credit          4.04         Borrower shall regularly replenish the special   Resources were
account to bring it up to U M 750,000            replenished, but
with considerable
delay
Credit          4.05         Borrower shall make adeunate budgetary           Contributions were
allocations to enable CRS  to effectively        smaller than
perform its functions                            expected
Credit          4.07         Borrower shall take all necessary steps to       Partial compliance
facilitate an increase in SONELEC's tariffs      in that SONELEC's
and to enable it to comply with its              tariff Increases have
obligations, and shall do the same both for      leveled off
EMN and OPT
Credit          4.08         Borrower shall not amend or suspend              Yes
Ordinance 84038 on EPICs, SNs and SEMs
without prior approval from IDA
SONELEC         2.02         SONELEC shall employ qualified experts to        Yes
project                     assist it in implementing its program, to be
agreement                    selected in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to IDA
SONELEC         2.04(b)      SONELEC shall cause all goods and                Yes
project                     services financed to be used exclusively for
agreement                   the purposes of the project
SONELEC          2.05(a)     SONELEC shall furnish to IDA all technical       Yes
project                     and commercial documents and
agreement                    procurement schedules for Part B of the
Project
2.05(b)    It shall maintain records and accounts            Yes
adequate to identify goods financed out of
the proceeds of the credit, and shall furnish
this information to IDA at regular intervals
2.05(c)     SONELEC shall take all steps to assist           Yes
Borrower in preparation of the PCR
SONELEC         4.01 (a)     SONELEC shall maintain up-to-date records        Yes
project                     and accounts and keep separate accounts
agreement                    reflecting all project-financed expenditures
4.02(a)     SONELEC shall have Its annual accounts           Yes
and separate accounts for project-financed
expenses audited by independent auditors
4.03        SONELEC shall establish rates (under             See comments to
condnions of efficient operation) which shall    Section 4.07 of
allow it to make a reasonable contribution to    Credit Agreement
future investments for expansion



- 34 -
EMN project     2.02         EMN shall employ experts to assist n in          Yes, 3 experts
agreement                    carrying out its action plan, in accordance      instead of the 4
with the IDA Guidelines                           originally planned
2.04        EMN shall carry out the studies included in      Yes
Parts C.5 and 6 of the project, and take
steps for implementation of the resunting
recommendations
2.05(b)     EMN shall cause all goods and services           Yes
financed by the credi to be used
exclusively for the purposes of the project
EMN project     2.06(b)      EMN shall (i) maintain procedures adequate       It appears that EMN
agreement                   to monitor the progress of Part C of the          has effectively
project, (ii) maintain records and documents     maintained the
relative to goods and services financed, to      recommended
enable IDA to perform the necessary               procedures and
examinations, (iii) furnish progress reports     adequate
and all such information as may be               accounting records,
reasonably requested concerning the costs        but the final
and benefits deriving from the project           appraisal mission
could not obtain
these from PAN-PA
EMN project     4.01         EMN shall maintain is own accounting             Same comments as
agreement                    records as well as separate accounts or          above
project-financed goods and services
EMN project      4.03        Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,         No
agreement                    EMN shall maintain a ratio of operating
expenses to operating revenues not higher
than 65%
OPT project     2.02         OPT shall employ experts for                     Yes
agreement                    implementation of Part D of the project, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA
OPT project     2.03(b)      OPT shall cause all goods and services           Yes
agreement                   financed out of the proceeds of the credit to
be used exclusively for the purposes of the
project
OPT project     2.05(b)      OPT shall maintain procedures adequate to        Yes
agreement                   record and monitor the progress made
thanks to the project, in particular on its
costs and benefits, and furnish IDA with all
relevant documents
OPT project      3.01        OPT shall carry on its operations and            Serious deficiencies
agreement                    conduct its affairs in accordance with           in the financial
accepted practices in the administrative and     management
financial area of the postal and                 system and
telecommunications sectors under the              procedures
supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by complement staff
in adequate numbers
OPT project     4.01 (a)     OPT shall maintain records and accounts          No
agreement                    adequate to separate the postal and
telecommunications account as provided in
Part D of the credit agreement
4.02(b)     OPT shall retain, until one year after the       Yes
closing date, all supporting documents and
invoices evidencing project expenditures,
and furnish them to IDA at is request



- 35 -
OPT project      4.02(a)     OPT shall keep separate accounts for               Yes, but with some
agreement                    project expenditures and have its annual           delay, because of
accounts audited by external auditors in          lags in production
accordance with procedures acceptable to           of the annual
IDA                                                statements of
account
OPT project      4.04        OPT shall establish rates for Its services         Impossible to
agreement                    which shall allow It, at reasonable levels of      determine precisely,
capacity utilization, to cover its costs and       in the absence of
earn an adequate return enabling It to make       (i) a precise cost-
a significant contribution to its future           accounting system,
investments for expansion                          (io an investment
plan with precise
calculations of
amortization,
financial charges,
etc.



- 36 -
Annex 1
MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
GOVERNMENT REFORM MEASURES
The emergency measures adopted by Government in November 1983 to reform the public
enterprises (PE) sector include the following:
(a) a classification of all PEs into four categories: those that should stay as PEs, those that should
be privatized, those that should rightly be part of the public sector, and those that should be
liquidated plus a moratorium on the creation of new public enterprises;
(b) the adoption of a policy of cost-based prices to be gradually introduced starting in 1984, with
operating subsidies eliminated except where fully justified for socio-political reasons and to the
extent that Government-imposed prices are kept below cost;
(c)  the prompt payment by Government of goods and services acquired from public enterprises,
starting in 1984, based on realistic budgets, and the settlement of unpaid bills from 1983 and
preceding years in 1984;
(d) the settlement of inter-company and company/government/bank debts, based on the net
indebtedness of these parties as of end-1983, through compensation and refinancing, and, if
necessary, arbitration;
(e) the trimming of excess staff by a freeze on hiring of unskilled workers and gradual reduction
of numbers, through strict enforcement of labor regulations;
(f) an investigation into salaries for PEs, based on comparison of job content and evaluations,
leading to recommendations for an appropriate salary structure;
(g) development of a model budget structure and procedures for PEs to apply as of 1985, with
compliance to existing statutory procedures in 1984 and the monitoring of budget and actuals;
(h) requirement for enterprises to strengthen their billing and collection procedures, including
appropriate penalties or late payment;
(i) recruitment of qualified accountants in all EPICs, to improve their financial management,
reporting and control systems;
(j) the training of some 20 accountants and a review of the selection criteria for accountants and
auditors;
(k) the requirement for all enterprise investment plans to be compatible with overall economic
and social development objectives, and subject to detailed feasibility studies for each
investment. Investments of over UM 20 million would have to be approved by Cabinet; and
(I) the creation of monitoring units in each technical ministry, with a separate structure to be
created in the Ministry of Plan to monitor and coordinate the parastatal recovery program.



- 37 -
SONELEC - ELECTRICITY                                                                                          Annex 2
TECHNICAL AND COMMERCIAL EFFICIENCY
GWh                         1988       1989                   1990                   1991
fluct.                fluct.               fluct.
1. Gross generation (excl. IDINI & NDB)     99.5       101.1      1.6%       106.0       4.8%        117.1    10.5%
2. Auxil. generation
-6.0       -5.0    -16.7%         -5.2      4.0%        -4.8    -7.7%
3. Net generation
93.5       96.1       2.8%       100.8       4.9%       112.3    11.4%
4. Generating efficiency (3:1)
__ __ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ _ 94.0%    95.1%                 95.1%   _   _ _ __     95.9%
5. Billing, incl. int. consumption          70.3        76.1      8.3%        84.1      10.5%         92.0     9.4%
6. Overall efficiency (5:3)                75.2%      79.2%                  83.4%                  81.9%
7. Target                                  74.0%      79.0%                  82.0%                  84.0%
8. Actual to target                       101.6%  |  100.2%                 101.7%  |          I   975%  |
9. Billing (in UM millions)                 1,262      1,308 1                1,467 |                1,761
10. Average sales price (UMlkWh)      |     18.0        17.2 |          1     17.4 [           |      19.1 |



- 38 -
SONELEC - WATER                                                                                                     Annex 3
TECHNICAL AND COMMERCIAL EFFICIENCY
GWh                        1988        1989                  1990                 1991
fluct.              fluct.                 fluct.
1. Gross production                         10,846      11,696      7.8%       12,217    4.5%       12,410       1.6%
2. System losses                                53         353                   275                  644
3. Net production                            10,793      11,343     5.1%       11,942    5.3%       11,766      -1.5%
4. Production efficiency (3:1)               99.5%       97.0%                 97.7%                94.8%
5. Billing, incl. int. consumption            6,191       7,420    19.9%        8,103    9.2%        8,380       3.4%
6. Overall efficiency (5:3)                  57.4%       65.4%                 67.9%                71.2%
7. Target                                    57.0%       64.0%                 67.0%                71.0%
8. Actual to target                         100.6%      102.2% J              101.3%           1   100.3%
Memo item:
9. Efficiency (5:1)                          57.1%       63.4%                 66.3%   _            67.5%
10. Billing (in UM millions)                   493         635                   726                  752
11. Average sales price (UM/kWh)                                                               l
79.6       85.6 .                 89.6  _              89.7



- 39 -
SONELEC                                                                                                           Annex 4
LONG-TERM DEBT RATIOS
UM millions                          1988           1989            1990           1991       1992
Estimate
1.   Equity
Capital                                      2,780          2,780            2,780          2,780         2,780
Revaluation reserve                          3,349          3,273            3,273          3,273         3,273
Carried forward                             -2,583         -2,790           -3,575         -3,357        -3,295
Operating P/L for fiscal year                 -208           -785              218             62           248
Subsidies                                    1,114           1,105           1,070          1,030           920
Risk allowance                                 125            217
4,577          3,800           3,766          3,788         3,926
2.   LT/MT debt (excl. advances on                 6,278          6,793           7,137          5,292         7,905
consumption)
3.  Invested capital (1+2)                        10,855         10,593          10,903          9,080        11,831
4.   Debt ratio (2:3)                             57.8%          64.1%           65.5%          58.3%         66.8%
5.   Target                                       60.0%          60.0%           60.0%          60.0%         60.0%
6.   Target achievement                  |       103.7% f        93.6%           91.7%          102.9%         89.8%



- 40 -
SONELEC                                                                                                         Annex 5
SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS
UM millions                     1988           1989           1990           1991           1992
Estimate
Net profit                                       -207.5         -709.8          142.3          168.5          248.1
Interest/act. loans                               195.5          411.5          292.4         304.5           239.5
Amortization                                      765.1          893.4          981.2         944.5           944.5
753.1         595.1         1,415.9        1,417.5        1,432.1
Deduct:
Adjustments/provisions                            134.1           38.2          500.1
Subsidies repaid                                  218.0          105.9          102.9          106.7          110.0
352.1          144.1         603.0          106.7           110.0
Gross cash flow                                   401.0          451.0          812.9        1,310.8        1,322.1
(before financing costs)
Debt servicec
Interest                                        195.5          411.5          292.4          304.5          239.5
Amortization                                     61.4           136.8          82.4          506.0          426.3
Early loan repayment                                                                        1,240.0
256.9          548.3         374.8         2,050.5         665.8
Available cash flow                               144.1          -97.3          438.1         -739.7          656.3
Other resources:
Capital grant                                   780.0
Investment subsidies                             50.0           97.2           68.4
Mobiliz. of loans                              2,234.9         651.8          427.0                        3,039.4
Advances on consumption                                          12.2          24.2           20.4           26.4
Risk allowances                                                130.2
3,064.9         891.4          519.6           20.4        3,065.8
Available resources                             3,209.0          794.1          957.7         -719.3        3,722.1
Utilization
Investment                                     2,354.5         855.6          554.2          359.8         3,906.5
Working capital                                 854.5           -61.5         686.9       -1,079.1         -184.4
replenishment
3,209.0         794.1        1,241.1         -719.3        3,722.1



- 41 -
SONELEC                                                                                                        Annex 6
WORKING CAPITAL
UM millions                     1988          1989           1990           1991          1992
Estimate
1.   Turnover                                   1,780.3       2,040.7        2,263.3         2,615          3,001
2.   Monthly average                             148.4          170.1         188.6          217.9          250.1
3.   Working capital                             1,526          1,464         2,151          2,494           378
4.   Cash position                                 278           957            966           825            476
5.   Working capital requirements                1,248           507           1,185         1,669            -98
6.   Fluctuation in working capital
requirements                                 818           -741            678           484          -1,767
7.   Ratio 1 (3:2)                                10.3            8.6          11.4           11.4            1.5
8.   Ratio 2 (5:2)                                 8.4            3.0           6.3            7.7           -0.4
9.   Ratio 3 (6:2)                                 5.5           4.4            3.6            2.2           -7.1



- 42 -
SONELEC                                                                                                        Annex 7
CONSOLIDATED OPERATING RESULTS
UM millions                     1988          1989           1990           1991          1992
Estimate
RECEIPTS
Sales: electricity + water                      1,748.4       1,835.3        2,062.9       2,315.0        2,868.5
Other receipts                                    25.9           97.7          70.5           52.5          132.9
Internal consumption                               6.0          107.7         129.0          110.9          168.4
Financial income                                  36.8           26.8          87.3           38.8
- Irrecoverable debts                           -141.2         -170.2        -276.9         -147.9         -141.9
1,675.9       1,8973         2,073.7       2,369.4          3,028
EXPENDITURE
Materials consumed                               779.3          680.1         709.9          878.3         1,006.1
Investment costs                                 300.8          193.6         191.6          173.2          235.6
Business costs                                   148.5          264.1         222.4          171.2          130.3
Labor costs                                      244.2          268.3         306.6          351.7          330.3
Taxes                                             62.6            4.8            4.6           4.9            3.5
Financial costs                                    2.4           65.1           14.2           0.6
1,537.7       1,476.0        1,449.3       1,579.9        1,705.8
GROSS P/L                                        138.2          421.2         624.4          789.4         1,322.1
Interest/external debt                           195.5          411.5         292.4          304.5          239.5
Exchange losses/external debt                    110.0          172.9         218.5
Amortization                                     765.1          893.4         981.2          796.6          944.5
Inventory depreciation                                            5.7          32.1
Differencefinventory                             -68.0          -38.3         -75.7
1,002.7       1,445.2        1,448.5       1,101.1        1,184.0
OPERATING P/L                                   -864.5       -1,024.0        -824.1         -311.7          138.1
Subsidy repaid                                   218.0          105.9          102.9           5.6          110.0
Recoveries on provisions                         134.0           38.2         500.1
Operating subsidy                                305.0          404.9         363.3          367.5
Extraordinary losses/receivables                               -234.9
657.0         314.0          966.3         373.1           110.0
NET P/L                                         -207.5         -709.9          142.2          61.4          248.1
OPERATING RATIO                                 91.8%          77.8%          69.9%         66.7%          56.3%
(expenditure/receipts)



- 43 -
SONELEC                                                                                                               Annex 8
OPERATING RESULTS: ELECTRICITY
UM millions                            1988                  1989                   1990
RECEIPTS
Electricity sales                                             1,260                  1,242                  1,382
Other receipts                                                   13                     75                     53
Internal consumption                                              2                     66                     85
Financial income                                                 33                     27                    119
- Irrecoverable debts                                           -71                   -154                  -201
1,237                 1,255                  1,439
EXPENDITURE
Materials consumed                                              680                    595                   506
Investment costs                                                230                    118                    99
Business costs                                                   83                    187                    155
Labor costs                                                     152                    164                    172
Taxes                                                            36                      4                      3
Financial costs                                                   2                     65                     14
1,183                 1,133                    949
GROSS P/L                                                        53                    122                    490
Interest/external debt                                          194                    411                    223
Exchange losses/external debt                                   110                    173                    263
Amortization                                                   424                    521                    688
Inventory depreciation                                                                   6
Difference/inventory                                            -68                    -38                    -19
660                  1,072                  1,156
OPERATING P/L                                                  -607                   -950                   -666
Subsidy repaid                                                  208                    105                     47
Recoveries on provisions                                        134                     38                    394
Operating subsidy                                               214                    284                    179
Extraordinary losses                                                                  -235
556                    192                   620
NET P/L                                                         -51                   -758                     46
OPERATING RATIO                                              95.7%                  90.3%                  66.0%
(expenditure/receipts)



- 44 -
SONELEC                                                                                                             Annex 9
OPERATING RESULTS: WATER
UM millions                           1988                   1989                  1990
RECEIPTS
Water sales                                                    489                   594                    681
Other receipts                                                  13                    23                     17
Internal consumption                                             4                    41                     45
Financial income                                                 3                     0                     75
- Irrecoverable debts                                          -71                   -16                    -76
439                   642                    741
EXPENDITURE
Materials consumed                                             100                    86                    204
Investment costs                                                71                    76                     93
Business costs                                                  65                    78                     82
Labor costs                                                     92                    104                   135
Taxes                                                           26                      0                     1
354                   343                    514
GROSS P/L                                                       85                   299                    227
Interest/external debt                                           1                      1                    69
Amortization                                                   341                   372                    293
Inventory depreciation                                                                                       32
Differencefinventory                                                                                          g
342                   373                    385
OPERATING P/L                                                 -258                    -74                  -158
Subsidy repaid                                                  10                      1                    56
Recoveries on provisions                                                               0                    106
Operating subsidy                                               92                    121                   185
101                   122                   346
NET P/L                                                       -156                    48                    188
OPERATING RATIO                                             80.7%                  53.4%                 69.4%
(expenditure/receipts)



- 45 -
SONELEC                                                                                                       Annex 10
BALANCE SHEET
UM millions                     1988          1989           1990           1991          1992
Estimate
ASSETIS
Net assets                                     9,603.0        9,489.0        9,062.0        8477.3        11,439.3
Inventory                                        236.1          321.0         407.3          369.7          369.7
Short-term assets
"Private" customers                             773.2         655.5          367.0          383.0          513.0
"Government" customers                          232.0         292.0          452.3          265.0          265.0
Government - subsidies
receivable                                     825.0          712.0         673.0
Other debtors                                    97.1          16.5          119.3          43.3            73.3
1,927.2       1,676.0        1,611.6         691.3          851.3
Available                                        278.0          957.3         965.7          820.0          475.5
Adjustment accounts                              262.6          290.3         168.5
12,306.9      12,733.6       12,215.0      10,358.3       13,135.8
LIABILITIES
Equity
Capital                                       2,780.0        2,780.0        2,780.0       2,780.0        2,780.0
Revaluation reserve                           3,348.8        3,273.4        3,273.4       3,273.4        3,273.4
Carried forward                               -2,582.7      -2,790.2       -3,500.0      -3,357.7       -3,189.2
Operating P/L for fiscal year                  -207.5        -709.8          142.3          168.5          248.1
Investment grants                             1,113.7        1,105.0        1,070.5         963.8          853.8
Risk allowance                                  124.8         216.8
4,577.0       3,875.1        3,766.1       3,828.0        3,966.1
LT/MT debt
Loans                                         6,278.5        6,792.6        7,137.2       5,292.3        7,905.4
Advances on consumption                         273.2         285.4          309.6          330.0          356.4
6,551.6       7,078.0        7,446.8       5,622.3        8,261.8
Invested capital                               11,128.6      10,953.1       11,213.0       9,450.2       12,227.8
Short-term debt
Government debt service                         495.2         757.8           44.7
Other debtors                                   549.0         977.2          957.4         908.1           908.1
1,044.2       1,735.0        1,002.1         908.1          908.1
Adjustment accounts                              134.1           45.5
12,306.9      12,733.6       12,215.0      10,358.3       13,135.9



