Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3979-MAU
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 16.9 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR A
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILIlATION PROJECT
March 7, 1935
This docment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their officisl duties. Its cotents may not otherwisc be disdcsed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Ougutya (UM)
US$1.00 - UM 80
UM 1.00 = US$ .0125
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
MEASURES
1 Meter (m)      2  -    3.28 feet (ft)
1 Square meter (m ) -    10.76 square feet (sq. ft)
1 Kilometer (km)    -    0.62 mile (mi)
1 Metric ton (mt)   -    2,205 pounds (lb)
i Liter (1)     3   -    0.26 US gallons
1 Cubic meter (m )  -    264 US gallons
1 kV                 -    1,000 volts
1 MW                 -    1 million watts
1 Gwh                -    I billion watt-hours
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CNSS      Caisse Nationale de S&urite Sociale
CRSP      Cellule de Rehabilitation du Secteur Parapublique
DTAF      Direction de la Tutelle Administrative et Financiare
ECU       European Currency Unit
EDF       European Development Fund
EIB       European Investment Bank
EMN       Etablissement Maritime de Nouakchott
EPAP      Entreprise publique a caractere administratif et professionel
EPIC      Entreprise publique a caractere industriel et commercial
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
ILO       International Labor Organization
OCAM      Organisation Commune Africaine et Mauricienne
OPT       Office des Postes et Tel1communications
PE        Public Enterprises
PPF       Projet Preparation Facility
SEM       Societe d'economie mixte
SNINI     Societe Natioriale Industrielle et Miniere
SONELEC   Societe Nationale d'Eau et d'Electricite
TA        Technical Assistance



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAIL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Government of Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Implementing Agencies:   Ministry of Planning
Sociite Nationale d'Eau et d'Electrtcitt (SONELEC)
E:ablissement Maritime de Nouakchott (EMN)
Office des Postes et Tel&communications (OPT)
Credit Amount:            SDR 16.9 million (US$16.4 million)
Terms:                    Standard IDA terms
On-lending Terms          Proceeds of the Credit other than the funds for the
sector reform will be on-lent at about 10 percent,
the Bank's prevailing interest rate, with the
Government assuming the foreign exchange risk, as
follows:
(a) SONELEC: 15 years Including 5 years grace
(b) EMN: 10 years including 3 years grace
(c) OPT: 10 years including 3 years grace.
Project Description:      The project comprises components aimed at:
(a) creating a central agency within the Ministry of
Planning to formulate policy, carry out reforms and
coordinate programs affecting the public enterprise
sector;(b) undertaking a series of special studies
in the parastatal sector to propose new policy
directions for government (c) initiating diagnostic
studies of other public enterprises for the next
phase of the rehabilitation strategy; (d)
rehabilitating the operation of two key public
enterprises (SONELEC and EMN) by upgrading
equipment, restoring capacity and providing
technical assistance and training; and (e) assisting
OPT with expertise and equipment in the area of
financial management and further rehabilitation
studies.
Project Benefits and
Risks:                    The principal benefits of this project would be a
start of the reform of the institutional framework
for the sector as a whole in support of government's
rehabilitation strategy, and the improved operations
of several key public enterprises.
This document has a restrited distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its Contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- it -
Although there are no major engineering risks, the
project may not be able to achieve its institutional
objectives due to the comp'Lexity of the problems
facing public enterprises and the pervasive
technical, financial and human resource weaknesses
prevailing in the sector. To mitigate these risks,
the project would be limited to initiating the
reform process and to meeting the emergency needs of
three selected enterprises.   Depending on the
success of these efforts, reform could be extended
to other enterprises under subsequent operations.
Estimated Costs:                         Local    Foreign    Total
-----US$ Million---
Sector Reform                             0.6        2.6        3.2
SONELEC                                   2.1       12.8       14.9
EMN                                       0.2        3.3        3.5
OPT                                       0.2        0.8        1.0
Total Base Cost                           3.1       19.5       22.6
Physical Contingencies                    0.2        1.4        1.6
Price Contingencies                       0.7        4.3        5.0
Total Project cost                        4.0       25.2       29.2
==   ==             ==
Financing Plan:                          Local    Foreign    Total
- --US$ Million-   --
IDA                                      0.5       15.9      16.4
CCCE                                     -          3.0       3.0
FAC                                                 0.9       0.9
EDF                                      -          1.3        i.3
EIB                                      -          4.0       4.0
Government and Enterprises               3.5        0.2       3.7
Total                                    4.0       25.2      29.2



-iii -
Disbursements: -IDA Fiscal year--------
(US$ Million)
1986      1987        1988       1989     1990
Annual                     2.6        4.1         5.1        3.7      0.9
Cummulative                2.6        6.7        11.8      15.5      16.4
Economic Rate
of Return:      (ERR was calculated only for those components entailing
physical investment)
SONELEC Component              44 percent
EMN Component                   68 percent
Overall                         44 percent
Staff Appraisal      No: 5193 - MAU
Map:  IBRD Map No. 1b452R



- 1 -
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR A PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Islamic Republic of Mauritania for SDR 16.9
million (US$16.4 million equivalent) to help finance a Public Enterprise
Tecbnical Assistance and Rebabilitation Project. The Credit would be on
standard IDA terms. Additional financing will be provided through a
grant from Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (US$0.9 million equivalent); a
loan from Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (US$3.0 million
equivalent); a special credit from European Development Fund (US$1.3
million equivalent); and a loan from the risk capital fund of the
European Investment Bank (US$4.0 million equivalent).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Islamic Republic of Mauritania - Recent
Economic Developments and External Capital Requirements" (2479a-MAU)
dated June 4, 1979, has been distributed to the Ex:ecutive Directors.
Since then, a number of missions have visited Mauritania to monitor the
economic and financial situation and prospects of the economy. Updated
country data are given in Annex I.
The Land and its People
3.        Mauritania bears many of the characteristics of the "Least
Developed Countries" in terms of its physical and human resources,
despite a level of per capita income (US$460 in 1983) somewhat higher
than that of the world's lowest. Three-quarters of the country is
desert or semi-desert, the principal economic activity being livestock
herding.  Crop farming is generally limited to the sub-Saharan zone in
the south, where rainfall is nonetbeless sparse and irregular. Pockets
of modern economic activity are found in the mining complex of Zouerate,
the fishing center of Nouadhibou and the administrative capital of
Nouakchott.  These centers are geographically separated from the
agricultural zones, and there is little economic interaction between
them and the rural sector.
4.        The three centers of modern economic activity account for a
major share of the country's overall output, while livestock and crop
farming, which support as much as 70 percent of the population, account
on average for about 25 percent of total output. The mass of the
population (total 1.6 million) suffers from an extremely low standard of
living, as reflected in key social indicators: life expectancy at birth



- 2 -
is estimated at 45 vears, infant mortality is 132 per 1,000, only one in
every three children of school-age attends primary school, and less than
20 percent of the population is literate in either of the two official
languages, Arabic and French.
Past Economic Performance
5.        Led by increases in iron ore production, Mauritania's GDP
sustained an average annual growth rate of 8 percent during the 1960's.
The economy experienced a sharp deceleration in growth in the
mid-1970's, however, and a period of marked financial instability in the
latter part of the decade. Principal factors were reduced world demand
for iron ore, on which the country had been dependent for 70-80 percent
of its export earnings, and the effects of severe and repeated drought
on output in the rural sector. These factors were compounded by
prolonged military conflict in the Western Sahara and a poorly conceived
investment policy.  The investment program was stepped up in the
mid-1970's to rates approaching 40 percent of GDP with the support of
heavy inflows of foreign assistance, particularly from OPEC sources and
commercial lenders. These resources were used principally to finance
the nationalization of the mining sector, ambitious projects in
transport infrastructure and a few large industrial ventures which were
to prove unviable.
6.        The effects of depressed iron ore earnings, drought and a
generally weak record of economic management in the mid-1970's brought
the country to financial crisis by 1977. The Government's current
expenditure requirements that year reached a level nearly double its
receipts, producing a Treasury deficit equivalent to 16 percent of GDP.
On the balance of payments the country suffered a severe drain on its
reserves despite massive inflows of foreign grants and loans. The
Government which took power in 1978 immediately adopted a stabilization
program which called for rescheduling more than S200 million in debt
service obligations, tight controls on the Government wage bill and a
reinforced tax collection effort.  The growth of the Government's
current budgetary expenditure was curbed, and the earlier drain on the
country's foreign reserves was arrested. Modest boosts in iron ore and
fisheries production and the stimulus of a new investment effort
temporarily enabled the economy to pull away from the stagnation which
had characterized it since 1975 and to enjoy a brief three-year period
of growtb averaging 4 percent per annum during the period 1979-81.
7.        The improved performance of the economy could not be
sustained, however, in the face of a fallback in mining production and
the recurrence of drought. Iron ore production fell by more than 20
percent in 1982-83 to a level only 65  percent of that registered 10
years earlier. With rainfall only about 20 percent of normal levels in
the 1983/84 season, the livestock herd suffered major losses, and
cereals production met less than 10 percent of total dcmand. Aggregate
output of the economy fell by 2.2 percent in 1982, rose by 6.6 percent
in 1983 (due to distress sales and offtake in the livestock sector and



- 3 -
other exceptional factors) and stagnated in 1984. In the absence of
sustained growth, per capita incomes today are essentially unchanged in
real terms from those of a decade ago.
8.        The failure of the mining sector to underpin growth of the
economy in the 1980's marks a major reversal of expectations at the
outset of the current Five-Year Development Plan period, 1981-85. On
the assumption of gradual recovery in the world steel industry and a
consequent near-doubling of Mauritania's ore production, mining was
expected to resume it's role as the economy's motor of growth through at
least the first half of the decade and to ensure the domestic resources
to effect the development strategy adopted for the 1980's: to eventually
shift the base of the economy from its exhaustible mineral resources to
alternative, renewable sources of growth - irrigated agriculture,
livestock and fisberies. The need to ensure future mining capacity and
at the same time to diversify the economy has resulted in Mauritania's
maintaining its record for some of the highest rates of investment
registered among developing countries. Gross capital formation averaged
$240 million annually through a peak period, 1981-83, or 35 percent of
GDP. Continuing high levels of investment have reflected the completion
of large projects in the transport sector begun in the late 1970's and,
simultaneously, the execution of the $500 million Guelbs mining project,
Gorgol Irrigation and other major projects undertaken in the framework
of the 1981-85 public investment program. Additionally, a spurt of
private sector investment in fisheries was made in the early 1980s in
response to Government initiatives to promote national exploitation of
these formerly foreign-controlled resources.
9.        Given the performance of the mining sector and drought-induced
shortfalls in rural production, Mauritania's inability to maintain
satisfactory rates of growth have sharply aggravated its exceptional
dependence on foreign resources to meet consumption as well as
investment requirements. Whereas the external current account deficit
had been held in check at an average 22 percent of GDP in the 1979-81
period and the overall balance of payments maintained in approximate
equilibrium, Mauritania's external position has substantially weakened
since 1982. Despite a strong rise in earnings from fish exports
(estimated at $135 million in 1984 closely rivalling earnings from iron
ore of $150 million), the current account deficit expanded to an average
33   percent of GDP in 1982-83.  Though in part the result of
exceptionally heavy foreign-financed mining investment, the expansion of
the deficit was unmatched by a corresponding increase in capital
inflows, forcing a massive drawdown of Central Bank reserves (cumulative
$77 million in 1982-83). In 1984 the payments crisis was modestly eased
by a decline in cereals imports, replaced by exceptional receipts of
food aid, and a reduction in other general imports induced by a downward
adjustment of the ouguiva exchange rate of 19 percent in relation to
the US dollar. Further losses in official reserves were nonetheless
incurred (US$33 million), and by end-1984 payments arrears on external
medium and long-term debt had mounted to an estimated $95 million.



The Recovery Program and the Current Outlook
10.       Mauritania's balance of payments and budgetary situation thus
remains extremely weak, requiring continuing adjustment measures over
the medium term and heavv support from abroad in the form of financial
and technical assistance and food aid. The gradual depreciation of the
ouguiya during 1984 was one of a series of recovery measures in the
areas of exchange rate and price policy, fiscal administration, the
public enterprise sector, the banking system and the public investment
program towards reducing external and domestic imbalances to sustainable
levels and maximizing the modest prospects for the economy in the medium
term. Such measures are being pursued in the context of the
Government's Economic and Financial Recovery Program. In January 1985
the Government reached agreement with the IME on a proposed Stand-By
arrangement for SDR 12 million. In accordance witb that agreement, it
undertook in February 1985 a further 19 percent effective devaluation of
the ouguiya in domestic currency terms and increases in cereals prices
at both producer and consumer levels ranging from 12-50 percent. The
Government also agreed to raise interest rates to levels which are
positive in real terms and to restrict credit expansion. The IMF
Stand-By would be put in place following successful negotiations with
Arab and Western bilateral creditors to fill the projected 1985
financing gap of about $200 million.
11.       Successful implementation of the Government's Economic and
Financial Recovery Program, supported by the international communitv, is
critical to the medium-term outlook for the economy. With disciplined
economic management and well-conceived measures to exploit Mauritania's
limited resources, modest but sustained growth in output is possible.
Rural sector production should recover moderately from drought-induced
lows of 1984. Although international iron ore markets are not expected
to recover significantly through the 1980's, it is possible for SNIM to
continue to improve the cost effectiveness of its operations. In the
livestock sector, some time will be needed to reconstruct the herd
following the heavy mortality and accelerated offtake over the past two
years. In the period abead, irrigation development will increas;ingly
contribute to food supplies, even though cereals production will remain
highly vulnerable to the effects of drought. In the fisheries sector,
now a major source of foreign exchange and budgetary revenue, growth
could remain strong for another 3-4 years, but would then level out if
resources are not to be over-exploited. Under favorable assumptions,
overall growth of the economy through the remainder of the 1980's could
average 3.5 percent annually, or 1.0 percent ahead of the projected
rate of population growtb.
12.       Mauritania's longer term development strategy must take into
account the country's very limited natural resource base and prospects
for its supporting rising standards of living.   Compounding the
implications of overall population growth is the fundamental economic
and social change taking place throughout Mauritania as a result of a
decade of severe drcught and attendant rural emigration. The growth of
Mauritania's urban centers, at some of the most rapid rates registered



in West Africa, is clear evidence of the need to give high priority to
those sectors such as light industry which offer maximum scope for
expanded income and employment opportunities.   In this context, it is
vital to ensure that basic services provided by the parastatal sector
are efficiently managed. Thus, the reform and strengthening of the
parastatal sector, which is the objective of the present project, is a
key component of the Government's Economic and Financial Recovery
Program.
PART II - BiNK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITANIA
13.        As of FY84 the Bank Group has had 19 operations in Mauritania
for a total of US$212.6 million. Of these, cwo are Bank loans for
mining operations (US$66 million for MIFERMA in 1960, and US$60 million
to SNIM in 1979 for the Guelbs Iron Ore Project). The other 17 are IDA
credits totalling US$86.9 million. Of the IDA operations, five have
been in the transport sector, six in the rural sector, two for
education, two have been technical assistance projects for economic
planning and there have been separate projects for urban and rural
development and petroleum exploration.   IFC has no operations in
Mauritania. The Bank Group's presence in Mauritania was fairly
substantial in the early 1970's, and in 1970-72 it was the third largest
donor providing about 18 percent of Mauritania's external capital
assistance. Since then, external financial assistance to Mauritania
from other sources has increased rapidly and at present, the Bank
Group's share in Mauritania's external capital assistance amounts to
about 8.0 percent.
14.       Until the mid-seventies Bank Group strategy for Mauritania
focussed on financing traditional projects mainly in agriculture,
transport and education. Since the mid-seventies this assistance has
been broadened increasingly to address the institutional weaknesses of
country economic management, investment planning and project
implementation which had manifested themselves during the last decade.
In 1978, the Association assisted the Government in designing a
financial and economic rehabilitation program for which the first
Technical Assistance Project (FY77) provided the expertise. Assistance
for the formulation of macro-economic policy, a medium and long-term
development strategy, and investment programs is being continued under a
Second Technical Assistance Project (FY82), which is also helping to
develop a pipeline of feasible investment projects other than mining
(iron ore) on which the country can no longer solely count for sustained
economic growth. The objective of this assistance is to institute a
much more thorough evaluation of investments than occurred in the past
especially to avoid large, capital intensive projects with low
productivity and unsatisfactory rates of return. Priority will now be
given to projects aiming at the rehabilitation and maintenance of
existing infrastructure, and encouraging only those new investments that
demonstratively promise a high rate of return.



15.       To back-up the Government's efforts to address Mauritania's
severe balance of payment problems, tight fiscal situation and its
inability to service its public debt, our country and economic sector
work has been intensified and will include sector papers on fisheries,
education, energy and urban development. Provided that the IMF Standby
arrangement is approved and satisfactory progress is made in the
implementation of economic recovery measures, a Consultative Group
meeting will be organized to obtain donor support for the Recovery
Program.
16.       Professional training of Government officials remains an
essential ingredient of IDA assistance to overcome the acute shortages
of trained local staff at all levels, which constitute a major
difficulty in project implementation. Through project aid and technical
assistance, efforts have been made to strengthen vocational training for
the modern industrial sector and farmers' training, in parallel with
broadening access to primary education.  Nonetheless, shortages of
pupils completing secondary and vocational schools with satisfactory
results remain critical and explain the low productivity of employees in
the modern sector. As a consequence technical assistance should continue
to be an important part of project financing.
17.       Assistance to the education sector is being provided under the
Second Education Project (FY82) which aims at expanding access to
primary educaticn, improving vocational training in the modern
industrial and commercial sectors, and training of lower secondary
school teachers to replace a substantial number of foreign technical
assistants on expensive contract basis.  Future IDA assistance should
continue to focus on the need to reduce technical assistance personnel.
The Government recently requested the Association to assist the
Government Education Reform Committee in the review of key sectoral
issues, a clear definition of overall long term objectives, the
formulation of policies, the preparation of an investment program to
increase efficiency of education and training, and the reduction in
recurrent costs to lower the large share of education (30 percent) in
the national budget. Additional sector work is being initiated for
this purpose.
18.       Assistance  to  agriculture,  especially  irrigation  and
livestock, will be continued since this sector is still considered
Mauritania's principal source of growth over the longer term, despite
its weak base and extreme vulnerability to drought, and the high cost of
investments caused by difficult physical conditions, limited transport
infrastructure, and the high level of technical assistance needed.
Through the Second Technical Assistance to the Rural Sector project
(FY83), rural institutions will be strengthened and efficient incentives
developed by addressing such fundamental issues as input and product
pricing, subsidies and land tenure. A Small Scale Irrigation project
(FY85) will continue IDA assistance to the on-going irrigation program
and finance the establishment of 75 command areas of 20-25 ha each,
emphasizing the participation of beneficiaries in construction,



- 7 -
maintenance and operation to keep investment costs down. A Second
Livestock project (FY86), would improve livestock production, strengthen
services and - based on encouraging experience in Niger and Mali -
establish pastoral cooperatives on an experimental basis with grazing
rights allocated to identifiable land areas.  This would enhance
renewable resource management through greater involvement by the
pastoralists themselves. In the fisheries sector, which could be an
important source of future growth, a sector study has been prepared to
assist the Government in the elaboration of a sector strategy. The
objective is to enable Mauritania to capture a larger share of the
benefits currently reaped by foreign trawlers operating along the coast.
Once this strategy is in place, a fisheries project could be considered.
19.       In the energy sector, our assistance consists of supporting
the Government's search for hydrocarbons through the Petroleum
Exploration Promotion Project (FY82) and carrying out an energy
assessment to recommend strategies and policies aimed at improving
energy demand management, develop indigenous energy resources,
strengthen institutions, and identify specific areas for follow-up
technical assistance, based on which a future operation could be
developed. The Association is also helping Mauritania to evolve an
overall strategy for the urban sector.   Urbanization has grown
dramatically in recent years while appropriate measures to adjust to
bhis development have not been taken. Sector work is being carried out
to gather detailed knowledge of the urban requirements and to examine
tha wider urban policy issues in the context of Mauritania's overall
development aspects. This sector work may lead to the design of an
urban project later in this decade. To assist in Mauritania's efforts
to diversify employment and sources of income, financing was provided to
encourage private enterprise through the Mauritanian Development Bank
(Credit 888-MAU) and to promote artisanal carpet-weaving activities. A
follow-up project (FY85) will further pursue these objectives and
through studies develop appropriate policies for improving subsector
performance and possibilities of further expansion of the manufacturing
sector.
PART III - THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR
20.       The public enterprise sector produces over one-fifth of GDP,
generates one-eighth of government revenues, and accounts for one-fourth
of formal sector employment, with debt accounting for one-fourth of
Mauritania's total external public debt and received subsidies totalling
around one-tenth of the Government's public enterprise annual operating
budget.   The Government is thus keenly aware that a successful overall
economic rehabilitation program has to include major improvements in the
performance of the public enterprise sector.



- 8-
Economic Impact and Importance
21.       Throughout the 1970s, the Government rapidly expanded the size
of the public enterprise sector. At the end of 1982 the cumulative
investment in public enterprises had reached UH 12.5 billion
(US$217 million). The high priority attached to Mauritanian control of
productive resources and to economic independence was the justification.
The Government acquired ownership in existing enterprises and created a
large number of new ones in mining, agriculture, manufacturing,
transportation, distribution, construction, insurance and banking. By
the end of the 1970s the parapublic sector included: 25 industrial and
commercial enterprises (EPIC), 27 joint ventures with the private sector
(SEM), and 56 decentralized services in administration, research and
education (EPAP).  By far the largest public enterprise is SNM)
("Societe Nationale Industrielle et Miniare") which operates the iron
ore mines and accounts for 95 percent of the country's industrial value
added and over 60 percent of exports. SNIK received a US$60 million
Bank loan (Loan 1747-MAU) in 1979. The next largest public enterprises
include the electricity and water company (SONELEC), the post and
telecommunications company (OPT), the port authority at Nouakchott
(EHN), an airline (Air Mauritania), a rural development company
(SONADER), and an import-export company (SONIMEX). The first three
enterprises  (SONELEC,  OPT  and  EMN), which  are proposed  for
rehabilitation under the proposed project, represent 30 percent of
value-added by public enterprises if SNIM is excluded.
Financial Status
22.       Altbough the data base for public enterprises is weak,
analysis of the available data highlights some major preblems. Many
enterprises are suffering large financial losses and have inadequate
financial structures with excessive debt-equity ratios. SNIM was the
only enterprise witl-, substantial profits (UM 500 million or US$ 8.7
million in 1981), bat starting in 1983 has also recorded losses.
Especially since 1978, a part of these losses has been financed by
rapidly growing debts with the public sector. The Government stopped
paying for goods and services purchased from public enterprises while
public enterprises stopped servicing debts with state-owned banks and
other public enterprises, and stopped paying taxes owed to the
Government. By 1983, the Government owed about UM 600 million (US$10.4
million) to public enterprises, most of it to OPT, Air Mauritania and
SONELEC. Government arrears accumulated because it systematically
underbudgeted its consumption of water, electricity, post and
telecommunications services and was slow at making payments. In turn,
enterprises owed the Government about UM 500 million (US$8.2 million),
mainly in back taxes and penalties for late payment.



-9-
Sector Constraints
23.       In addition to financial problems, Mauritania's public
enterprises sector has been hampered by organizational and human
repource constraints. A major problem is the lack of sector planning,
po.Licy direction and management. Enterprises operate with conflicting
objectives, are not subjc.ct to evaluation according to sound economic
criteria, and often make decisions without consideration of sectoral
objectives or the implications for public finances. Appropriate means
to monitor and evaluate the sector's aggregote impact do not exist. The
Government's dealings with its enterprises are complex, including
controls over the use of foreign exchange, procurement, and pricing
policy, as well as approval of personnel appointments, salaries,
organization structures,  and financial  transactions.   There are,
moreover, ambiguities in the respective responsibilities of different
control agencies and the various laws regulating the sector are often
inconsistent. Finally, there is no established commercial discipline
governing relations between the Government and its enterprises, in
paying accounts due and in the settlement of arrears.
Government Efforts to Rehabilitate Public Enterprises
24.       Increasingly aware  of the sector's deterioration,  the
Government began attempts at reform in 1977. With financing from IDA's
First Technical Assistance Project (see para 43), a public enterprise
sector report was prepared in 1978 and rehabilitation programs for
various enterprises were drafted in 1979. They recommended action on
pricing policies, personnel reductions, management and maintenance.
Some measures on prices and management were taken but their limited
scope and the deepening degree of the problems led to little significant
improvement.   However,  the  1978-82 period of study and review
substantially strengthened Government's perception of the actions
needed.
25.       In December  1982, as part of an overall macroeconomic
rehabilitation program, the Government established a high-level
Interministerial Committee for the Rehabilitation of Public Enterprises
with a technical secretariat in the Ministry of Planning to prepare a
comprehensive medium-term rehabilitation program for the public
enterprise sector.  This Committee received substantial support from
IDA's Second Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1292-MAU) and, in
September 1983, submitted its report.  The report stressed that as
preconditions for improving performance, the Government would have to
make a profound change in policies and streamline its dealings with
public enterprises.  A clear definition of the enterprise role was
essential, payment for goods and services within the public sector had
to be enforced and the relative responsibilities and duties of the
enterprise and the Government had to be clearly spelled out. The report
found that on the Government side there was:  interference in the
day-to-day management of the enterprises; lack of exercise of
responsibility of government appointees on the boards of parapublic



- 10 -
enterprises; lack of monitoring of government objectives; lack of
financial controls and audits; delays in payments of government bills;
and late and poorly planned increases in tariffs. On the enterprise
side the report found that there were weaknesses in management and
personnel; lack of motivation; lack of internal controls stemming from
the absence of qualified finance staff and accountants and consequent
delays in accounting, inadequate billing and collection procedures; lack
of maintenance and deterioration of equipment; and an overall lack of
training policies and programs.
Objectives of the Sector Reform Program
26.       Based on the Interministerial Committee's  report,  the
Government approved a reform program in November 1983, with the
following features (see Annex VII for full list of measures). According
to this program, no new public enterprises will be established, except
if economically justified and of national strategic importance, and the
portfolio of existing public enterprises will be rationalized through
liquidations, privatizations and rehabilitation. Prices are to reflect
costs and subsidies will be phased-out. Intra-public sector debts will
be settled, and the Government and enterprises are to make prompt
payment for goods and services. Hiring of unskilled staff will be
frozen, excess staff will be trimmed, and a new salary structure is to
be established. The quality of accounting, auditing and budgeting will
be improved in all public enterprises. All investments will require
prior feasibility studies and, if over UM 20 million, will require
Cabinet approval. A reform management structure has been created in the
Ministry of Planning, operating in liaison with all relevant government
institutions.   The proposed  project  supports  these  fundamental
improvements, which are described in more detail below.
Reform Strategy and Progress During 1984
27.       Ultimately,  the Government intends to reform the entire
parapublic sector--restructuring the sector through privatization and
rehabilitation, and liquidations instituting appropriate policies, and
developing the institutions needed to plan, coordinate and monitor
sector developments.As a first stage, however, its approach is limited
by the scarcity of funds and the weakness of existing institutions to
manage a larger reform effort. The first phase of the Government's
program will concentrate therefore on: (1) establishing the general
policy context for public enterprises; (2) developing institutional
mechanisms to manage the reform process; (3) carrying out legal,
institutional, and structural reforms; and (4) rehabilitating
enterprises selected on the basis of priority as and wben funds become
available. With the assistance of the proposed project, the first phase
concentrates on essential public services--water, electricity, port,
post and telecommunications.  In parallel with financing from other
sources (including other Bank and IDA financed projects), rehabilitation
actions are also underway or planned in the agricultural sector
(SONADER), iron ore (SNIM), and rug making (OTn). Efforts under the



- 11 -
second phase are expected to concentrate on those companies facing
financial difficulties (SOCOGIM, SMAR, Air Mauritania, SOMECOB, SMCPP,
etc.) as well as enterprises in key sectors of the economy (fishing for
example).
28.       The Government has already made considerable progress in
implementing the first phase of its reform program.  It has given
particular priority to key measures in sector restructuring, investment
review, settlement of interlocking debts and appropriate budgetary
allocations. Annex VIII summarizes government action to date and the
calendar for the reform.  During negotiations the Government has
confirmed its agreement on the scope and extent of this first phase of
the reform program (Section 3.04 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Implementation has proceeded well so far, largely owing to
the efforts by the Ministry of Planning, responsible for instituting
parapublic reforms.
Legal Framework Reform
29.       Improvement of the legal basis for public enterprises is well
advanced. A new public enterprise law was approved in early 1984
introducing the requirement for program contracts ("contrat programme").
These are contracts between the Government and its enterprises to
establish clearly the objectives of the enterprises, their required
support from the Government, plus their targets and operational plans as
mutually agreed with the Government. Patterned after the French system
of "contrat-plan" adopted in many countries in Africa (Senegal, Congo,
Ivory Coast, etc.), program contracts will be introduced for the first
time in Mauritania, starting with SONELEC and EMN. During negotiations
agreement was reached that the Goverzment and the two enterprises will
enter into program contracts, acceptable to the Association, by
December 31, 1985 (Section 3.06 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Project support, with initial financing under the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) (para 44), is available to assist the
enterprises and the Government to prepare these contracts.   Other
assistance will be provided under the project to help the Government
implement additional legal reforms, especially for SONELEC, EMN and OPT,
as part of their action plans and to continue refinement of the sector's
legal framework.
Sector Restructuring
30.       Annex IX summarizes the progress made to date and the calendar
for future action on sector restructuring.   The first phase of the
classification exercise covering 30 industrial enterprises is almost
complete: three enterprises are to be liquidated, four privatized, four
converted to government services, five have their scope of activity
reduced, ten will be rehabilitated or retained as they are and ten
require further study to be done as part of the proposed project.
Decisions on public enterprises in fishing (13 enterprises), banking



- 12 -
(eight enterprises), and EPAPs (56 institutions) will be made once
sector studies to be done as part of the project are completed.
Settlement of Interlocking Debts and Financial Discipline
31.       The difficult task of settling the web of interlocking debts
is progressing well.   Coordinated by the Ministry of Planning,
interlocking debts of 15 of the most important public enterprises were
settled by October 1984 through compensation, cancellation and
refinancing. After intensive work and negotiations, the Government has
reached agreement with OPT, EMN and SONELEC, satisfactory to IDA, for
the settlement of their interlocking debts. To avoid recurrence of this
problem, a start also has been made by the Government to establish
realistic budget allocations for the goods and services it consumes. In
the 1984 budget, adequate allocations for SONELEC were made. For 1985,
the Government has agreed to include in its 1985 budget (through
addendum to the budget if necessary) adequate provision for payment by
all public sector consumers (schools, hospitals, army, national guard,
etc.) of services provided by SONELEC and OPT, as well as pay up any
arrears, as a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01(f) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Tariff AdJustments
32.       Under the new pricing policy, enterprises may increase prices
to reflect costs and other operational conditions and, if the increase
is not approved for socio-political reasons, enterprises are to receive
compensatory subsidies. Attention so far has focussed on EMN and
SONELEC. Projections, prepared by the appraisal mission, indicate that
increases in average tariffs in 1985 to compensate for inflation and the
effects of devaluation (estimated at about 16 percent), combined with
improvements in SONELEC's operating efficiency, will be sufficient to
put SONELEC into a better liquidity position in 1985 so that it can
cover operating costs and service debts. Subsequent increases, to be
reviewed and approved by IDA, will be required for SONELEC to operate as
a financially viable enterprise. Increase of average tariffs to adjust
to inflation and change in exchange rate, satisfactory to IDA. is a
condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.02 (h) of the DCA). As for
EMN, its average tariffs were recently (February 1985 raised by 25
percent across-the-board. Various other port charges were also raised
at the same time and new charges added.   It was agreed during
negotiations that EMN would increase tariffs as necessary in order to
achieve an operating ratio of 65 percent starting in 1986. The prices
for other enterprises are also under review: prices for PHARMARIN
(pharmaceutical products) have already been increased, while SMCPP's
(gasoline) and STPN's (urban transport) prices are being studied.
Increases for other enterprises are to be determined as part of the
rehabilitation of individual enterprises as necessary.



- 13 -
Investment Progras
33.       With assistance from the Bank and the IMF (para. 15), the
Government is now undertaking a thorough review of its expenditures to
establish investment priorities that, within its resource constraints,
have the greatest economic impact.  In this context, the proposed
project, focusing on emergency expenditures for restoring basic services
and rehabilitating presently inadequately used assets, has been given
the highest priority by the Government. More generally, Mauritania's
investment program as reviewed by IDA and IMF provides the general
framework and global limit for investments in 1985. The Government bas
furthermore agreed to consult with IDA on investments in future years as
part of Mauritania's economic recovery program.  In addition, during
negotiations it was agreed that IDA prior approval will be sought before
any investment by SONELEC, EMN and OPT above specified limits (Sections
4.04, 4.05 and 4.04 respectively of the draft Project Agreements for
these enterprises). A moratorium on the creation of enterprises with
the exception of extraordinary cases is also in effect. The only major
public enterprise created in the last five years is a fish export
marketing company which the Government considers critical to increasing
Mauritania's revenues from fishing activities. However, the Government
intends to review closely its progress and liquidate it if it is not
generating satisfactory financial and economic results.
Managing the Reform Process
34.       Tackling the problems of Mauritania's parapublic sector
involves a wide range of government ministries, enterprises, banks and
outside agencies, with the Ministry of Plan playing the lead role as
policy formulator, catalyst and coordinator. A special group within the
Ministry entitled the "Cellule pour la Rehabilitation du Secteur
Parapublic" (CRSP) has been set up to manage the overall reform process.
It coordinates the Government's reform measures, monitors progress and
develops, in collaboration with other ministries, policy proposals and
action plans to be approved by the Council of Ministers. In a staff
capacity, CRSP can cross sectoral lines, approach the sector's problems
with a multi-disciplinary outlook and arbitrate among established
interests.  So far, key CRSP staff have been instrumental in both
developing and implementing the Government's reform program. Under the
project, CRSP will be fully equipped and staffed and provided with
necessary training and logistical support.
The Enterprises
35.       In its request to IDA, the Government identified SONELEC, EMN
and OPT as first priorities for rehabilitation since they provide
essential public services and, in the case of EMN and SONELEC, are in
serious danger of collapse if no action is taken. A summary of these
enterprises follows.



- 14 -
SONELEC
36.       Created in 197S, SONELEC provides water and electricity
services to Nouakchott, . Ladhibou and a few small urban centers. It is
supervised by the Ministry of Hydraulics, Energy and Mines, with
management vested in its Director-General.  SONELEC's facilities are
badly in need of repair, upgrading and replacement. Available capacity
is far below installed capacity and technical losses are very high.
SONELEC's financial performance has consequently been unsatisfactory.
Collection is poor, and as a result SONELEC has not been able to service
debts and pay taxes. SONELEC's accounts, furthermore, have never been
subject to external audit.  Although SONELEC's current tariffs are
relatively high compared to other West African countries, they are not
sufficient for SONELEC to cover operating costs, service debt and
contribute to new investment.  Despite  improvements to SONELEC's
operating efficiency, already evident as the rehabilitated generating
facilities come on stream, increases in average electricity and water
tariffs and measures to reduce operating costs which will improve its
financial position considerably, are still required to adjust to
inflation and the change in the exchange rate. Implementation of these
tariff increases is a condition of credit effectiveness. In addition,
agreement has been reached during negotiations to implement by
December 31, 1987 the results of a tariff study which is to be completed
by June 30, 1987 (Section 2.08 of the draft SONELEC Project Agreement).
37.       Annex X summarizes SONELEC's action plan to rehabilitate its
operations, organization and finances. SONELEC's management, helped by
technical assistance financed by the PPF, has already started to advance
the action plan.  Improvements to collection of client accounts and
billing system are proceeding. Physical inspections of the water system
in Nouakchott has already started, to plan detailed rehabilitation
efforts and to prepare tender documents for the repair and replacement
of water pipes and connections. Physical works on the rehabilitation of
SONELEC's existing electricity generation facilities are well underway
with CCCE financing  (para 57).   Meanwhile,  other institutional
improvements await the arrival of the remaining technical experts who
have already been selected. A new organizational structure for SONELEC
would be approved by Government as a condition of credit effectiveness
(Section 6.01(g) of the draft DCA) and revisions to its legal base
should be implemented as part of SONELEC's action plan.  During
negotiations agreement was reached with the Government and SONELEC to
implement the action plan (Section 3.04 of the draft SONELEC Project
Agreement).
EMN
38.       EMN manages the principal commercial port, serving Nouakchott
and much of the interior, which accounts for about 80 percent of general
cargo traffic. Created in 1975, EMN is supervised by the Ministry of
Equipment. Having reached a peak of 325,000 tonnes in 1982, traffic
fell to about 300,000 in 1983 but is expected to recover gradually. The



- 15 -
present harbor has only one unprotected berth that can handle only small
ships. Larger ships must be lightered in open roadstead using barges
which results in double handling. Much of EMN's equipment is not in
working order and the berth is near collapse. However, it must continue
to serve Naoukchott for at least 3 more years until a new deepwater port
is complete. This port is being built by the People's Republic of China
with financing on concessional terms (50 years repayment, including 10
years grace and commission of 1 percent p.a.).  During negotiations,
Government has agreed, by no later than December 31, 1987 (about six
months after the estimated completion date), to transfer it to EMN, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (Section 4.02 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
39.       EMN's internal controls,  systems,  financial records and
information processing are weak. Accounting is particularly poor and
EMN's accounts have never been externally audited. EMN has shown a
profit only once in the past five years, its liquidity position is poor
and it has not serviced its debts since 1979. EMN now owes Government
about UM 46 million (US$0.9 million) in taxes and penalties which it
will have great difficulty paying. However, the Government has agreed
to waive the penalties which reduces the amount due to UM 4 million to
be paid in 1985. (para. 31).
40.       The steps necessary to rehabilitate EMN's operations have been
incorporated in an action plan, summarized in Annex XI. This plan
covers productivity improvements, development of management information
and financial systems, reorganization and staffing changes, designed to
strengthen EMN's institutional capabilities and prepare EMN for the
operation of the new deep water port.  Physical improvements and
equipment provided to EMN under the project are therefore kept to the
minimum  essential  for EMN's continued  operation.   An important
achievement to date has been the reduction of staff from 400 to 300
persons. EMN is committed to further staff reduction, from 300 to 250
persons by end December 1985. During negotiations, agreement has been
reached with Government and EMN to implement the action plan (Section
3.04 of the draft EMN Project Agreement).
OPT
41.       OPT is responsible for international and domestic postal and
telecommunication services and for the provision of postal financial
services. Postal services are available in major centers, while
telecommunication services are concentrated in Nouakchott and
Nouadhibou. Service utilization is low, postal service unreliable, and
telecommunication services poor.  Recently, OPT has taken steps to
upgrade long-distance and international service using satellite
facilities. However, these investments (one standard A earth station
and two standard B earth stations) are likely to strain OPT's financial
position and the most important, a Standard A earth station, is
difficult to justify in technical and economic terms.  This type A
station, at an estimated cost of US$ 18.7 million, was financed on a



- 16 -
blend of commercial and concessionary terms from French sources (CCCE
for US$7.8 million equivalent at 4.5 percent over 20 years; commercial
bank financing of US$6.2 million at 10.6 percent over 5 years and grants
of US$4.7 million equivalent from FAC). With these new investments, OPT
should not require major investment in international telecommunication
facilities until the mid 1990s, but will still need to undertake
rehabilitation of its domestic local and long-distance services.
42.       Created in 1961, OPT reports to the Ministry of Information,
Posts and Telecommunications.  OPT's present organizational structure
centralizes authority in Nouakchott and does not provide a clear
separation between postal and telecommunication services. As a starting
point, greater separation between these two areas should be achieved by
developing financial and management reporting systems that make the
appropriate distinctions. Sound accounting policies, financial controls
and systems for client billings and collections are especially needed to
properly analyze OPT's financial situation, assess future investments
and maximize cash generation. During negotiations, agreement has been
reached to carry out an action plan incorporating measures to overcome
these deficiencies as summarized in Annex XII (Section 3.04 of the draft
OPT Project Agreement).
The Association's Role
43.       Support from IDA under two Technical Assistance projects laid
the basis for the Government's parapublic reform program. The first
project (Cr. 665-MAU), approved in 1976, financed a review of the sector
in 1978 and carried out diagnostic studies audits of some 20 enterprises
in 1979. This work led to some reforms, but more importantly increased
the Government's awareness of the nature and magnitude of the sector's
problems. Advisors continued to provide advice on parastatal policy as
the Government undertook a comprehensive review of the sector in 1982
which culminated in the adoption of the Government's emergency measures
in late 1983. The Second TA project (Cr. 1292-MAU) approved in 1982
continued these efforts by financing the diagnostic studies of SONELEC,
OPT and EMN that are the basis of the action plans to be implemented as
part of the project.
44.       A PPF advance of US$1 million, approved in May 1984, supported
the reform process (Annex XIII). It is financing final plans for the
physical and institutional rehabilitation of SONELEC and EMN and the
start-up of project activities. Maintaining the momentum achieved by
the Government's reform program, financing is being provided to prepare
terms of reference for sector and enterprise studies, engage technical
advisors, and equip CRSP.  The Second TA Project may also be used for
bridge financing of urgent studies required by the Ministry of Planning
on sector issues.
45.       IDA proposes to support the Government's two-phase sector
reform program. This first project will initiate the reform process,
prepare the details of the sector strategy and meet the emergency needs



- 17 -
of three selected enterprises. Depending on the success of this first
phase, a project constituting the second phase could extend reforms to
other enterprises. A key part of IDA's role will be to assist the
Government in mobilizing and coordinating other donor support for its
reform program.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
46.       In 1981, the Mauritanian Government confirmed its request to
the Association for assistance in its public enterprise reform program.
The appraisal mission took place in October 1983, based on preparation
financed under the Second TA Project (para 39). Negotiations were held
from February 19 to 22, 1985 in Washington, D.C. with a Government
delegation led by Mr. Mohamedou Ould Michel, Economic Advisor to the
Minister of Planning, and including the Directors of the three
enterprises selected. Supplementary data on the project are provided in
Annex III. A staff appraisal report, numbered 5193-MAU, is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Rationale for Bank Group Support
47.       The rationale for the Association's involvement in the reform
of the public enterprise sector is based on three key considerations.
Through the Association's past technical assistance efforts, confidence
has been built-up within the Government on the Association's ability to
be of help on the subject. Second, without the Association's lead other
donors are reluctant to support the Government's rehabilitation program
in light of its complexity and far-reaching implications.  Last,
enterprises that provide essential public services and that were in
danger of total collapse require immediate support.
Project Objectives
48.       The  proposed  project  will  assist  the  Government  in
implementing the first phase of its public enterprise sector reform
program.  More specifically, the project is designed to:  restructure
and rationalize the sector by reclassifying, closing down, privatizing
and reorganizing enterprises; prepare and enact key changes in the
sector's legal and institutional structure to streamline it,
decentralize responsibility and accountability to enterprises, and
institute a process of program contracts; design and execute changes in
public enterprise price, investment and labor management policies; begin
the rehabilitation of two key public service enterprises - SONELEC and
EMN - and provide technical assistance for OPT; and prepare the
subsequent phases of the public enterprise sector reform program.



- 18 -
Project Description
49.       The proposed project consists of (a) a component focussing on
the management of the sector reform process and (b) three components to
provide emergency support including physical rehabilitation of existing
facilities, technical assistance and training to SONELEC and EMN and
technical assistance and training to OPT. The key features of these
components are described below.
50.       Sector Reform.  This component will help implement the first
phase of the Government's reform program by developing sector policies,
coordinating the sector restructuring process, and strengthening the
responsible management and control institutions.   The project will
finance technical assistance (45 person-months) and training to CRSP to
develop public enterprise policy, coordinate rehabilitation efforts, and
monitor sector performance.  Additional training will be provided to
staff of "Directorate for Administration and Financial Supervision" in
the Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for supervising the
enterprises' financial performance. As support for the Government's
reform program, the project includes the financing of consulting
services and specialized expertise (82 person-months), to undertake
studies of sector issues identified by the Government (salary policy and
structure, training needs, monitoring systems, and budgetary systems)
which will lead to improvements in those areas. The Government will
also obtain advice and assistance to liquidate and privatize selected
enterprises and to extend its restructuring to other sectors (fishing,
banking, EPAPs) as well as to determine appropriate action for specific
enterprises.  Funds are allocated for technical assistance to the
Ministry of Planning and enterprises in preparing the first program con-
tracts for SONELEC and EMN. Other legal reforms will be carried out as
identified in the enterprise action plans and for the sector as a whole
to continue to refine and improve the present legal structure. As a
means of identifying weaknesses and verifying the finances of SONELEC,
OPT and EMN, external audits will be undertaken of their accounts
starting with FY84. CRSP's accounts will also be audited. Technical
assistance will be provided to prepare the next phase of the
Government's rehabilitation program (45 person-months).   This will
include diagnostic studies of other enterprises, refinement of plans for
enterprises already identified for rehabilitation, and further sectoral
reforms. However, progress, satisfactory to IDA, to be achieved on the
implementation of the sector reform program would be a condition of
disbursement for these studies (Section 4(b) of Schedule 1 of the draft
DCA). In support of these activities, the project will also finance
office furniture, equipment, materials and vehicles, and the upgrading
of office space for CRSP. In addition, there is provision for CRSP's
operating expenses (travel, maintenance, services, supplies) including
engagement of local consultants and staff for a four-year period.
51.       Emergency Support for SONELEC.  This component provides
support to SONELEC to rehabiliuvte existing facilities, undertake
technical studies, staff training and technical assistance to strengthen



- 19 -
the organization and manage the rehabilitation process. The project
will finance a technical assistance team (110 person-months) responsible
for preparing details of the physical rehabilitation, developing systems
and procedures, establishing internal controls, assessing staffing
needs, and assisting management in carrying out its action plan and
preparing its program contract with the Government. Funds are also
available   to   finance   specialized   short-term   assistance
(29 person-months) for a tariff study and technical studies. Training
(20 person-monthly) in identified areas will be provided to staff in
operating entities in the region and abroad. The project also includes
rehabilitation of SONELEC's physical facilities.  Four separate sub-
components were prepared for rehabilitation--water services and
electricity services respectively in Nouakchott and Nouadhibou. Under
this component, the project finances urgently required spare parts and
equipment, meters and house connections, vehicles, and maintenance
equipment, plus upgrading of physical connections, distribution networks
and generating capacity.  In the case of the Nouadhibou water system,
the project will also finance the replacement of the main transmission
pipeline.
52.       Emergency Support for EMN.  Support will be provided for
physical rehabilitation of EMN's existing facilities, and technical
assistance in order to strengthen the institution and to plan subsequent
phases of rehabilitation. The project will finance technical assistance
(96 person-months) comprising four specialists in the areas of adminis-
tration, finance and accounting, maintenance and port operations, in
order to supervise rehabilitation works, establish work methods and
procedures, develop accounting and management information systems,
provide on-the-job-training to EMN staff and assist management in
preparing its program contract and carrying out its action plan. During
negotiations, it was agreed that these specialists, selected in
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to IDA, will have been
appointed, and at least three taken up their positions as a condition of
credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(i) of the DCA). Short-term advisors
are also included to undertake technical, economic and financial
studies. Additional staff training will be provided to EMN's senior
management and staff in areas of administration, port operations, and
maintenance.  Considering that EMN will operate the existing port until
1987, when the new port is to open, the physical rehabilitation en-
visaged under this component includes only repairs to Dort
infrastructure.   The project will finance repairs to the wharf plus
equipment (forklifts, cranes, tractors, etc.), spares, and maintenance
equipment that will subsequently be transferred to the new port.
53.       Technical Assistance to OPT.   The project will finance
consultants to improve OPT's financial management and data processing
systems and to prepare a detailed medium-term rehabilitation plan
(39 person-months). A major element of these improvements will be an
accounting system capable of separating postal and telecommunication
accounts. Assistance includes acquisition of computer equipment, staff
training (20 person- months), consulting services to develop and



- 20 -
implement these new systems, and assistance to advance OPT's
rehabilitation plans, especially with regard to organization and
maintenance management. It will also examine OPT's financial prospects,
taking into account recent investments. The appointment of a task force
leader, acceptable to IDA, to supervise the consultants, and to plan and
coordinate the OPT component's activities is a condition of disbursement
for that component (Section 4(c) of Schedule 1 of the draft DCA).
Implementation
54.       The project will be implemented jointly by the Ministry of
Plan and the three enterprises. Responsibility will be given to each
enterprise respectively to execute the component supporting that
enterprise's rehabilitation. These efforts will be monitored by CRSP,
which will act as overall coordinator for the project. Specifically,
CRSP will be responsible for: (i) undertaking studies of sector issues;
(ii) devising systems to provide a base of financial and operational
data; (iii) developing changes to the sector's institutional
environment; (iv) coordinating the implementation of the Government's
reform measures; (v) fulfilling the responsibilities of the Ministry of
Planning in program contracts; (vi) preparing subsequent steps of its
rehabilitation program; and (vii) reporting upon the project progress.
55.       CRSP would be equipped and staffed under the project.  The
Government has enacted the appropriate legal instruments to create CRSP
and has appointed a director acceptable to IDA.  The appointment by
Government of a chief advisor to CRSP and key professional staff under
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA is a condition of credit
effectiveness (Section 6.01(d) of the draft DCA).  In addition, CRSP
will collaborate with other ministries, especially the Ministry of
Finance, in areas dealing with implementation of policies and institu-
tional reforms, accounting training, budgets, and sector monitoring.
Project implementation began in mid 1984 and is expected to 'Last until
mid 1988, with disbursements continuing into FY1990.
Project Costs and Financing Plan
56.       The total cost of the project, net of taxes and including the
PPF advance of USS 1.0 million, is estimated at about US$29.2 million
(UM 2.3 billion equivalent) with a foreign exchange component of about
US$ 25.2 million (UM 2.2 billion).  It is the Government's intention to
exempt investments under the project from duties and taxes. Estimated
costs for each project component are given in the project summary, with
details provided in Annex IV.   Overall, contingencies amount to 7
percent for physical and 22 percent for price, for a total of 29 percent
of base costs. Physical contingencies are based on provision of between
5 percent and 10 percent of the cost of physical works and equipment.
Price contingencies are estimated at 5 percent for 1985, 7.5 percent for



- 21 -
1986, and 8 percent for each year thereafter for foreign costs, and
10 percent each year for local costs. 1/
57.       The project is to be financed by an IDA credit of SDR 16.9
million (US$16.4 million) covering 56 percent of total project costs.
In addition, the SONELEC component will be cofinanced by CCCE with a
contribution of FF 25 million (US$3.0 million) for the Nouakchott
electricity component and a French bilateral grant from FAC of
FF 7.3 million (US$0.9 million) for technical assistance.  EIB has
agreed to appraise the water and electricity subcomponents at
Nouadhibou, for a total of about ECU 6 million (US$4.8 million). The
European Economic Community has approved a special credit to the
Government from the EDF of ECU 1.6 million (US$1.3 million) to finance,
in parallel, cargo handling equipment, physical repairs and spare parts
for the EMN component. CCCE has already approved its loan to SONELEC of
FF 89 million (US$11.0 million) at 5.5 percent for 16 years, including 6
year grace period, which covers the SONELEC component under this project
plus funds to finance new generating facilities. The potential EIB loan
of ECU 5-6 million (US$4.0 million) would be from their risk capital
fund, lent to Government at about 2.5 percent for 20 to 25 years, for
onlending to SONELEC on slightly harder terms. The EDF loan is under
special conditions, that is, 0.75 percent commission fee and repayment
over 50 years including 10 years grace, which will be passed on to EMN
from Government as equity. The participating enterprises and Government
will finance 12 percent of total costs. IDA's proposed credit would
finance 100 percent of foreign costs of the Sector Reform and OPT
components, share the costs of the EMN component (IDA finances some
equipment, technical assistance, training and studies) and the SONELEC
technical assistance sub-component, and meet 100 percent of the foreign
cost of the water sub-component in Nouakchott. The German KfW has
indicated its interest to participate in the financing of the SONELEC
component (Nouadhibou water system), and has programed up to DM 8
million for that purpose. Given the time required by KfW for the
appraisal and presentation to its board, it was agreed during
negotiations between IDA, KfW, and the Government that: (a) IDA increase
its financing to enable total coverage of project costs; (b) if and when
the KfW loan is approved, all three parties will agree on goods and
services, not yet ordered, and eligible to KfW financing; and (c) the
amount corresponding to the goods and services in (b) would be cancelled
from the IDA credit.
1/   Local costs (14%) are mainly wages which are projected not to
increase as quickly as local prices.



- 22 -
Revolving Funds
58.       To expedite implementation of the sector reform component, the
Government would establish a Specir.l Account in a local bank as a
revolving fund for IDA's contribution to the sector reform component.
This account would be financed with an initial deposit of US$250,000
from the proceeds of the proposed credit upon credit effectiveness.
Similarly, a Borrower's Account of UM 750,000 (US$10,000) would be
established in a local bank to finance the local component of CRSP's
operating costs.  Replenishment of the Borrower's Account would take
place quarterly.  Details of the operation and establishment of this
fund were agreed upon during negotiations.  Its funding will be a
condition of credit effectiveness (para 6.02(g)). Budgetary provision
for CRSP's local costs would be inscribed in the annual operating
budgets for the Ministry of Planning, starting in 1985. Assurances that
adequate provision for 1983 :5s been made is a condition of credit
effectiveness (para 6.02(a)).  The enterprises will follow their usual
business banking practices for transactions under the project.
On-lending Arrangements for the IDA Credit
59.       The Government will on-lend that portion of the IDA Credit to
each enterprise corresponding to its respective component excluding the
financing provided under the project for external audits which will be
passed on to the enterprises as grants. The terms and conditions of
this on-lending, as agreed during negotiations and presented in the
Project Summary, should be consistent with the implementation period and
overall useful life of the works performed and goods acquired, and at
-he Bank's lending rate at time of Board presentation.  The Government
will bear the foreign exchange risks. Signature of the three on-lending
agreements (between the Government and each enterprise) would be a
condition of effectiveness (Sections 6.01 (a), (b) and (c) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Accounts and Audits
60.       Each  agency would establish separate accounts for its
component.  During negotiations  agreement was reached  that the
enterprises' and CRSP's accoubts would be audited annually by
independent auditors, acceptable to IDA, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles. The reports would be submitted to IDA by each
implementing agency within six months of the close of its fiscal year.
Finances
61.       Deta'led analysis has been made of the financial prospects of
the major beneficiaries under the project.  In the case of SONELEC and
EMN, their present financial situations require cost reductions and
tariff increases in order for the enterprises to be financially self
sufficient, service their debts and contribute to future investments.



- 23 -
SONEL'fC has agreed co measures to reduce its operating costs which will
improve its financial position considerably, and to increase its average
tariffs, in light of inflation and foreign exchange fluctuations, as a
condition of effectiveness (para 6.02 tb) of the draft DCA).
Projections, prepared by the appraisal mission, indicate that increases
in average tariffs in 1985 to compensate for inflation and the effects
of devaluation  (estimated at about 16  percent),  combined with
improvements in SONELEC's operating efficiency, will be sufficient to
put SONELEC into a better liquidity position in 1985 so that it can
cover operating costs and service debts.  As for EMN, its average
tariffs had been low relative to comparable ports in the region but were
recently raised by 25 percent across-the-board.  Various other ports
charges were also raised at the same time and new charges added. It was
agreed during negotiations that EMN would increase tariffs as necessary
in order to achieve an operating ratio of 65 percent starting in 1986.
Agreement was reached during negotiations on the attainment of specific
financial covenants which require the establishment of adequate fees in
the case of SONELEC and OPT based on a general price covenant, and
satisfactory operating rates for EMN so as to enable these enterprises
to reach financial self-sufficiency, in light of inflation and the
results of proposed tariffs studies, combined with the measures to
improve the enterprises'  efficiency  (Section 4.07 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement and Sections 4.03, 4.04, and 4.03
respectively of the draft Project Agreements for SONELEC, OPT and EKN).
Procurement
62.       For items financed respectively by CCCE, FAC, EIB, EDF, and
KfW (para 57) the procurement policies and practices of these
organizations would apply. Procurement of goods and services to be
financed by the proposed IDA credit would be in accordance with
Association's guidelines. Consultancy services and technical assistance
posts will be filled in agreement with the Association guidelines.
Contracts for technical assistance in SONELEC amounting to US$0.9
million and in EMN amounting to about US$0.7 million equivalent have
already been awarded. For purchases of less than US$10,000 for minor
goods, spare parts and office equipment, implementing agencies would be
permitted to shop internationally or locally, following receipt of three
quotations. Cumulative ceilings of US$100,000, US$50,000, US$20,000 and
US$50,000 have been set for such purchases respectively for SONELEC,
EMN, OPT and CRSP.  Contracts less than US$100,000 may be procured
following local competitive bidding in which foreign firms may partici-
pate and in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association,
up to cumulative ceilings of US$250,000, US$2,0,000, and US$100,000
respectively for SONELEC, EMr and OPT.  All civil works and major
equipment will be grouped wherever possible into contracts over
US$100,000 for SONELEC and EMN and would be procured following ICB
procedures. There would be limited international competitive bidding
for OPT's purchase of computer equipment. Provision has been made to
allow retroactive financing of up to US$200,000 for comiputer equipment
and related technical assistance acquired by OPT between March 1, 1985



- 24 -
and credit signature, subject to IDA's approval. Certain spare parts
and equipment may be purchased directly to ensure compatibility while
SONELEC will undertake physical works under force account.   All
contracts over US$20,000 each will be subject to prior Bank review, with
smaller contracts subject to selective post-award review.  It is
estimated that over 90 percent of the total value of all contracts let
for financing by IDA will be reviewed a priori. A procurement table is
shown in Annex V.
Disbursements
63.       The proceeds of the Credit are estimated to be disbursed as
shown in the Project Summary and Annex VI.  It is anticipated that the
project will disburse over a five year-period, reflecting the
substantial  technical  assistance  element  of  the project.   All
disbursements from the Credit account would be fully documented except
for contracts of less than US$10,000 equivalent, plus EMN's office
rehabilitation, training, and CRSP's operating costs and office
upgrading, which would be disbursed against statement of expenditure
certified by CRSP's Director or the enterprise Director-General. The
supporting documentation would be held at CRSP and the enterprises for
review by IDA and external auditors. The total amount of such disburse-
ments is estimated at US$750,000. Reimbursement applications should not
be submitted for less than US$20,000.
Benefits and Risks
64.       The reform of sector management should lead to benefits to the
public enterprise sector as a whole.  By instituting more rational
enterprise/government interaction, the operations of public enterprises
should be made more efficient. The restructuring of the sector, by
closing certain enterprises and the sale and reorganization of others,
would lead to reduced Government subsidies and a smaller burden on
public finances. The rehabilitation of public enterprises providing
essential services, should bring users higher levels of service.
Successful rehabilitation of these enterprises will provide an example
to other enterprises with effects spreading throughout the sector.
While the project is justified on its institutional objectives,
tangible benefits will be realized through the rehabilitation of SONELEC
and EMN.  The economic ra:e of return (ERR) calculations, based on
revised tariff levels, ir.cicate that both these components are
economically Justiif.ed. For SONELEC, the ERR has been estimated to be
44 percent for the component as a whole. For EMN, the ERR has been
estimated to be 68 percent. The average economic rate of return on
these components, which account for 80 percent of total project costs,
is estimated at 44 percent.
65.       From zn engineering perspective the project entails very few
risks.    However,  the project's more serious risks lie in its
institutional reforms and strengthening, given Mauritania's weak
absorptive capacity and institutional base. The proposed approach (para



- 25 -
41), which takes these risks into account, is to use this first project
as an opportunity to learn more about the sector's problems, to develop
Government's institutional capacity, and to provide Government with the
means to measure the effects of its rehabilitation program.  The
expected satisfactory results of the project should encourage Government
to proceed further and to maintain its resolve to reform the sector.
However, intensive supervision by the Bank will be necesary and it is
estimated that in at least the first two years about 30 staff-weeks of
time annually will be required for this purpose.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic
Republic of Mauritania and the Association, the draft Project Agreements
between the Association and OPT, EMN, and SONELEC, the Recommendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section I(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association, are distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
67.       Special conditions of the draft Development Credit Agreement
are listed in Section I of Annex III of this report. Special conditions
of Credit effectiveness comprise: (i) The Government to include adequate
budgetary allocations on its 1985 Budget for the operation of CRSP, for
the settlement of arrears due to OPT in 1985 (para. 31); (ii) Government
to approve a new organization structure for SONELEC, satisfactory to IDA
(para. 37); (iii) EMN to appoint four specialists, and three of them
having effectively taken up their positions (para. 52); (iv) the
Government to approve a tariff increase for SONELEC, to compensate for
inflation and devaluation (paras. 32 and 61); (v) the Government to
appoint a technical advisor and key professional staff for CRSP (para.
55); (vi) the execution of the subsidiary loan agreements between the
Government and OPT, EMN, and SONELEC (para. 59); and (vii) the
Government to establish, in a commercial bank a revolving fund and make
the initial deposit (para. 54).    Disbursement conditions are that: (a)
the funds allocated for preparation of the next phase of Government's
rehabilitation plan will be contingent on progress, satisfactory to the
Association, on the implementation of Government's reform measures
(para. 50; the funds allocated for the OPT component will be contingent
or he appointment by OPT of a project task force leader (para. 53).



- 26 -
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECONMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington D.C.
March 1985



-27-                                              ANNEX I
T A    Le  UA                                      PACE I Of  5
MAUKITANIA             -SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MAURITANIA                           RerPRrNcE cROUPS (UKIGHTED AVIRAG5S /a
MOST                (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) tb
RECENT       NIDDLC INCOMC           MIDDLE INCOME
i9601     197d1k    ESTIHATILk   AFRICA S. OP 4AHARA    N. ArRICA & MID EAST
AM  (TCOUS4ID S. CI)
TOTAL                               1030.7      1030.7      1030.7
ACRICULTURAL                        395.1        395.3       394.6
cU  PM  CAPITA (liS)                    100.0       210.0       470.0             1112.9                  1149.6
Bil    CSwiM    M  CAPITA
(KLLOGRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)        12.O        115.0       132.0              529.0                  622.1
POMULTM IED VIL STArSTICS
POPULATION,MID-YeAR (THOUSANDS)     970.0       214.0      1598.0
URBAN POPULATION (t OF TOTAL)         3.4         12.8        25.8               29.7                   48.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                               2.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                 8.2
POPULATION NMNENTrB                                          1.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         0.9          1.2         1.5               55.8                    36.3
PER SQ. WM. ACRI. LAND              2.5          3.1         4.0              111.5                  461.7
POPULATIOP AGE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 YUS                          44.0         45.3        46.2               t5.4                    43.0
15-04 YRS                          53.3         52.0        S0.8               52.7                   53.2
65 AND ABOVE                        2.7          2.;         2.7                2.9                     3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                               2.2          2.2         2.3                2.8                     2.8
URBA                               Ih.2         15.5         8.1                5.2                     4.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)         50.7         49.9        4314               47.0                    40.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)         27.1         23.9        19.4               15.2                    11.5
CROSS REPRODUCTION BATE               3.4          3.4         3.4                3.2                     2.8
FMIlLY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOuS)            .            ..
USERS (1 OF MARRIED VOMEN)           ..           ..         1., lI             *-                    22.2
;W N -D NUnrTID
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPI.A
(19*9-71-100)                       107.0        102.0        73.0               91.6                   97.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CAWORXS (1 OF REQUIREMENTS)        93.0         85.0        97.0               98.2                   110.8
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)           80.0         75.0        75.0               56,7                   70.1
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        51.0         49.0        44.0 /d            17.0                    17.8
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE          45.0         36.1        27.0               18.7                    14.6
=Lns
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)        37.2         40.3        44.8               51.7                   57.5
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOOS)       178.0        161.9       132.0              102.7                  101.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WAT-R (EPDP)
TOTAL                                ..         27.0          ,.               35.6                    59.7
URBAN                                ,,         98.0        l6.0 Ie            54.1                   r6,5
RURAL                                ..         10.0          .                27.3                   38.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 Of POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          7.0
URBAN                                ..        1oo.0
RURAL                                ..           ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICLIN          40420.0      17850.0    14350.0 /d          11948.3                 4345.1
POP. PER NURSING PERSON            51.30.0 If   44a80.      2080.0 7T          2248.9                 1831.1
POP. tER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            4780.0       2890.0      2610.0 td           986.9                  632.9
URBAN                                ..        700.0      1310.0 M            368.7                  545.5
RURAL                            5210.0 JLi  5370.0       3710.0 7d,.        4012.1                 2513.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..          ..                ..                    26.2
ROUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HO)USEHOW
TOTAL                                                      ..                ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/RooM
TOTAL                                            ..              ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (I OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..          ..                 ..                   46.2
URBAN                                ..           ..          ..                ..                    77.7
RURAL                                ..           ..          ..                 ..                   16.1



- 28 -                                            ANNEX I
T A 8 L r  3A                                       PACE 2 of  5
MAURITANIA             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHET
MAURITANIA                           REIER.NCE GROUPS (WEICHTED AVERAGES) .
MOST                 (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECeNT       MIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE ImcnhC
196O/b    19701k     ESTIMALL'b   AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AlFRICA & MID EAST
USCATIro
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMRY:  TOTAL                       8.0         14.0        33.0               91.0                    88.3
HALE                     13.0         20.0        43.0               90.5                   102.5
FE!ALE                    3.0          6.0        23.0               73.6                    73.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     0.4          2.0        10.0               17.4                    43.0
HALE                      1.0          4.0        16.0               23.7                    52.3
FEKALE                    0.04          ..         4.0               14.8                    33.0
VOCATIONAL (I OF SECONDARY)            ..          12.5         4.5                5.3                    10.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             20.0         24.0        41.0               38.6                    30.3
SECONDARY                           17.0         24.0        25.0 /h            24.3                    23.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (2)                5.0 /0      10.0        17.0 /h            35.6                    43.5
CVUIWTIaO
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP            0.4          3.4         ..                20.7                    17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP          12.4         45.3        98.5              100.8                   138.8
TV RECEIVERS/TNOUSAND POP                      .                 ..               18.5                    46.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION               *-          2.4 LI       .1 7.2                                   31.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         ..          ..          0.3 /d             0.3                     1.7
KAEM VOICE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)            299.0        362.0       454.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     3.8          4.1         4.3               33.8                    lo.;
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               91.0         88.0        69.0               57.1                    42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3.0          4.0         6.0              17.4                     27.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCElT)
TOTAL                               30.9         s9.S        28.4               36.3                    26.2
MALE                                59.8         57.8        54.3               47.6                    46.4
FEKALE                               2.3          2.!.        2.4               25.1                     5.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.5          1.6         1.7                1.4                     1.8
Dg6 DISUTON
PERCENr OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
RICHEST 5Z OF NOUSEHOLDS              .
HIGHEST 20Z OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..
LOWEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..
LOWEST 40Z OF HOUSEBOLDS             ..
PORY  TRC  GOUS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..           ..              525. 3                  274.8
RURAL                                 .            ..       110.0 /h           249.0                   177.2
ESTIUATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        330.0 /h          477.4                    402.6
RURAL                                ..           ..        120.0 /h           186.0                   254.9
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY DNCaE LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                ..
NOT AVAILABLE
Nor APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of dta and is not uniform.
/b   Unlern othervwie noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 195q and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 end
1971; and data for "Moat Recent Estimate" between 1980 and 1982.
/c  Ages 12-50 years; /d 1977; /t 1976; /f 1962; /it Government hospital establishments; /h 1978; /1 1963; 1 1972.
JUNE, 1984



5 595.13 353 
9.  530.q 4.'  ~a.a  as.a*a.         933a919 3.m  B :`.ss.a 
-d                                                                           B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~".l5   53d5   s1.4'3.7s..44.3a.a   l.aa  ...a.
... .......  p- ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    .a.l3..a
1~~~~~  I B  -1 I.,~-4443999'  9~4S~-                                                              0
l.a.. - .     4..~aB_  B..             .L
-,i:  3399a4  a.  333  a
.. . . .... .....3999    ..sl  s., 9 
,39a. - 5;...99j (0"  0.3a~  'lad... .a.'s.3q. -, . '9.........s.....
53.395 *9~339359.3*   9 3 9 5 3 9 3  ~~9.3.l4I8.39                                          * 431a9.1  03a9   5....... .5.I.  ... .                   ooo99
P.-  .1.  P V 14. 1.       .6     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ ~                          .d a  '5 .9        .    ~93(~3  .
P.-I                                                                          1~~~~~~~~~~~*"  9..I 1 a.  a.-..1 .9
4.38..ladd P35..   9          . 4.                  --'           39*       9.1..*~..  -. .a-...   3i.5                                             .     ~      i5'   .149 
a3.3-'5.1 a.  ... ~ ...  ...  - .     7fl4.fl~                             .    ...,..". .*,...        .r7~fl'.i, n.a.,                ~           a.
9--4-.3.~  Ia.. 9                           3    39..,  '.3  l39  '53.3.4 l.i3d"~
la"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-53.9-4 .4..4 5                                                                                               . 3
*  *p.Jj   si 3.1  339  .' a~3~~P-4    a . ..P 1.5  P3.d9      d     B.pl..5~   3           s59  '3..l         593  '         do5.   -ia-               "%I w....-  4'jld-
P                                                     Pa..d.a3   4       ..at3.  13.3a9.3.'3d 4 3 531449.1.53.a    459.             .             .     49   93,    ...la.aa.
-   a.5a.9   a0a  .3933'3  9  9  s'.a..~.3   - . fi3493.a I.'.-9   -9 u-...9.,l....                                                                                 V- 5.1f' J
.1. ..5a3a5a15.19.  - .15  9.~3   493   4.I,5: .a.II-5-. II.
P.-       6.w0    I. 53 "14't4I'53.   .a1a9.a. -1                             ... 4..-a.3    IV 9-33    -
jo     a39   u5!a.   93   39                          ad-    *43   -s   f*  l*.4                                  5.50                 -     '-a..-..5            a.             .    ..
I       3j.51a3.'.i...5....as...aS..                                                                           *            .          p....va3.5..3..,9.....-.33.



-30-
AMORK I
i Wret s
UCONUEC TNICISICf
05033 uATYIaL FROMST 1311 3                                                              AL RATW OF 571    P  (E ta n oust_t rwtcem.
OR$ am.                                           1975-7I (AV.)     1979-31         1983
a" at Na*ket Pr"ic                          707.1         100.0                                -.5               3.0          7.1
Ura  Domestic Iestment                      209.9          59.4                               52.1              33.8        -6.3.
Ure" Ustial levie                            33.9           4.9
Ourret Aceount Sales.                     -225.2           32.3
Nayerts of Uged.. 193                       372.9          52.7                               -4.2              24.5         47.4
l?wet of Usd.. 31                          -617.0          17.3                                2.4              11.2          3.0
OIITM. LAD0  VMOCE MlD PODCflVITV 71 1983
Value Addsd                    Laer Foree                    V.A. For worlhr
Aariculturs                243.9       32.4                313.36    49.0                  770.5      47.0
Indatry                    140.9       IC.7                  36.3      3.0               3.881.5     234.1
Sroi. ond Uoallocatsd   147.9          48.9                 104.4    23.0                35323.9     212.6
Total/Avenge            J52.7       100.0                454.0   100.0                1.657.9     100.0
cmurRAL CoovDmI nP&=
UK1 la".           Parernt of GP
pi -             I1T---  952 (Ay.)
Current R Acepts                 3.373            21.4           16.8
Curraot Ezpaejicvre            -11.316            27.3           26.2
Current belance                 -2.443             5.9            7.4
Capital  xypanditura            -4.586            11.1           15.6
overall BALanc                  -7.029            17.0           23.1
btt1al Assteoce (eat)            7.155            17.3           23.2
.ONIT. CREDI? AID ICJIS
1051       1932        19B3
(Millin 1111 Oeggstaudl  ed-Driod)
._ y -ad qua,siny                            9.430     9.572       10.035
Claims on CoGeouSt                          2.434      1.631        4.216
Cl*lms on Private Sector                    11.263    12,758       13.869
(Parcentozss or Index Numbers)
Mouey dnd Omani-Mm" as Z of 0f                23.8      25.0         24.4
CeOnral Price lodx (1980 - 100)              111.9     121.3        127.2
Ammal Percentage CbIanD In:
General Pric  Index                           11.9       6.4          6.9
Claim-  0n Co weent                         49.5       51.2         16.5
Cla*ms on Private Sector                      11.7      14.8     8     .7
Note: A11 couversons to dollars In this table are at cb- mvrags sxchae sact prewallin  duris the period covsrsd.
Februry. 1985



- 31 -
M  T
TRADE. AYTNDS AID CAPITAL PUFLOS
WAUIICI OP PAUIITS                                                                                          NC3712uSDotrO   (1981-63 AV.)
1975        1971             2932    1932         2933                                               golSon         2
(NiIS3Sne  US,       --                                                               S3           S
Iron Ore                           145.3         53.3
Fish Products                      113.7         43.5
bprt of Good.. US                    14J.7        173.4           342.8   312.3       372.9           All Other Cod1itiee                   3.7        U.5
lport. of Goeed  m                  -154.3       -373.3         -561.0  -630.8       -617.0
leecurce Cop (dfiLcit - -)           -10 1       -195.3          -Z11 2               M117 5T              total                          272.7        1116.0
Intest Pe"ets  nest)                  -2.0        -14.6          -23.4   -34.9        -33.6
Vsrer's  lewittanee                   14.5        -27.6           -20.6   -30.7       -23.0
Other Paettr Ppeents (net)            -5. 1         3.5            13.9    183.        16.4
Met trnstfers                         31.2        120.4            61.3    34.5        61.1           MrTUJAL  DENT  as of Decmber 31. 1983
Selne on Current Account                         -1T     1      3* -i1   -215        -21K{
Direct Portein   vestment             10.3          4.4            22.3    14.9 .5                    Public Debt. inel. guereteed                  1.171.1
Net N 4 L/T  onoins                    8.6         55.4           151.4   206.1       172.2            on/meranteed Prti te Debt
Diaburee_nte                        (11.0)       (37.5)         (187.0) (222.0)    (194.3)           Totel  uestendinl end Disbersed              1.li.l
Artletton                           (-2.4)      (-32.1)          (35.7) (-15.9)    (-22.6)
Capitel Crete                          8.4         13.6           32.9    31.0         13.5
Other Cepitel (not)                  -14.2         -1.9  3       -14.7   -19.6          7.4           DDT SERICE RATIO  Ot 1933 I/                      I
Other Iteums    s                    -13.2         .09
Thcre.. In Onficial Iceereec C)    54 -37 9T                                                            blic Debt. Incl. Cuerenteed                     12
co/Cuercnee-d Privete Debt
Totel Qotetnding end Dliturned                   if4
Cross Official  Neeerye (end yer)  43.7            56.6           179.7   125.3        91.2
Not Official leerve (end yper)    .4.8            -21.4         -131.2   -16.2        -44.7
Thel and  leated MlactriMe
lnporto
of which: istrelesm             9.9         30.6           63.9    63.0         5336
Exprts                             -            -               -      7.1        20.8
of *tch: Petroleum               -                           -       7.1        20.8           IDI/ID/T  LEIDINC am of lMoaer 31. 1934
USZ Mllion
RATS OrP EnRANE                                                                                                                            in     f
OutetsndiMm  end Dihbured           MC          ICi
1291.00 - mg4 ".5A                               45.68          48.26   52.15        55.00          Undisbure-d                           0.3        15.9
Outetending Sncl. Undiabursed       Sfnl         7
1 stec of debt sevice to exports of g*dc end non-fe_ter services.
Pebruery. 1985



- 32 -
Annex    II
Page 1 of 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITANIA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(as of September 30, 1984)*
Amount (less cancellations) 1/
US$ Million
Loan or
Credit Number    Year    Borrower       Purpose               Bank    IDA       Undisburse
One Loan and Ten Credits fully disbursed                      66.0    39.8
888-MAU           1979    Mauritania   Urban and Rural
Developmett                   8.0          1.48
1747-MAU         1980    SNIM           Guelbs Iron Ore       60.0                   0.37
1068-MAU 2/      1981    Mauritania   Gorgol Irrigation                15.0         4.14
1175-MAU          1982    Mauritania   Petroleum                        3.0          1.59
1214-MAU         1982    Mauritania   Second Education                  5.7          3.36
1231-MAU         1982    Mauritania   Fourth Highway                    4.0          3.13
1292-MAU          1982    Mauritania   Second Technical
Assistance                    4.6         2.99
1414-MAU 3/      1983    Maurita:ia   Second Technical                  8.1         8.1 3/
Assistance to
Rural Sector
TOTAL                              126.0    88.2         25.16
of which has been repaid         66.0      1.9
Total now outstanding               60.0    86.3
Amount sold                  63.4
of which has been repaid    63.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA    60.0    86.3
Total undisbursed                    0.37   24.79        25.16
1/  Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/ Beginning with Credit 1068-MAU, credits have been denominated in Special
Drawing Rights. The dollar amounts in these columns represent the dollar
equivalents at the time of credit negotiations for the IDA amounts and the
dollar equivalents as of September 30, 1984, for the unlisbursed a.,ounts.
3/ Not vet effective
*    The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
Bank IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulatec
the Executive Directors cn April 30 and October 31.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REHABILITATION AND TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Timetable of Key Events
Time taken to prepare project:      1-1/2 years
Project Prepared by:                Government, Consultants and IDA
Identification:                     Through supervision of ongoing
Technical Assistance Project
Appraisal Mission:                  October 1983
Negotiations:                       February 19-22, 1985
Planned date of effectiveness:      September 30, 1985
Special IDA Implementation Action
Assistance in preparing terms of reference for consultants and
training programs for CRSP and enterprises.
Special Conditions
The Government or the enterprises, as the case may be, have
provided assurances on the following principal items:



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
A.   Agreements obtained during negotiations were that:
(a) Government agrees to a plan and timetable for the
implementation of its sector reform measures, acceptable to
the Association, (para 28);
(b) Government, SONELEC and EMN agree to enter into contract
programs, in scope and level of detail as shall reasonably be
requested by the Association to be reviewed and approved by
the Association, no later than December 31, 1985 (para 29);
(c) SONELEC agrees to carry out a plan of action including, among
other things, improvements in organization and staffing,
client management and management information system, as well
as a staff training program (para 37);
Ed) Government agrees to transfer the operations and assets of the
new port to EMN, on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association, by December 31, 1987, or no later than six months
after completion (para 38);
(e)  EMN agrees to carry out a plan of action of management
improvements including among other things changes to working
hours, an agreed productivity improvement plan, a :fmit to the
maximum number of employees, and a suitable management
information system (para 40); and
Cf) OPT agrees to carry out a plan of action to improve its
accounting and financial systems (para 42).
B.   Conditions of credit effectiveness are that:
(a) Government include adequate budgetary allocations in its 1985
operating budget for the operation of CRSP, for settlement of
arrears due to OPT for 1984, and for payment of services to be
delivered by SONELEC and OPT in 1985 (para 31);
(b)  Goverment approve a new organization structure for SONELEC,
satisfactory to IDA (para. 37);
(c) EMN appoint four specialists, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA, and at least three of the four will bave
effectively taken up their positions (para 52);
(d) Government approve a tariff increase acceptable to IDA, for
SONELEC to compensate for iuflation and devaluation (paras. 32
and 61);



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
(e) Government appoint a chief advisor and key professional staff
for the CRSP under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association (para 55);
(f)  Government establish a revolving fund in a bank account in
Nouakchott (Borrower's Account) and has made an initial
deposit of UM 750,000 to be replenished quarterly
(para 58);
(g)  Government open in a commercial bank in Nouakcbott a special
account to receive an initial deposit of US$250,000 and
further replenishments out of the Credit for CRSP
(para 58); and
(h) Government and the participating enterprises execute
subsidiary agreements on-lending credit proceeds on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association (para 59);
C.   Conditions of disbursement are that:
(a) For part of the Sector Reform Component, Government should
achieve progress, satisfactory to IDA, on the implementation
of its sector reform measures prior to preparation of the
medium-term rehabilitation plan (para 50); and
(b) For the OPT component, OPT appoint a project task force leader
acceptable to IDA (para 53).



- 36 -
ANNEX IV
SUtMARY OF PROJI'CT COSTS
- ---UN Millin-----
I of
Co ionent                                        Locel      Foretn       Toteal     Lorae      FaFeaim   Total    name Coat
1.    SECTOR REFORM
1.1   Technical Asemltance and
tratning                                    2.40       4 .60      44.00          30          520     550       2.43
1.2   Support studies                             4.80        7b.80      R1,60         60          960    1020       4.51
1.3   Audita                                      3.20        32,80      36,00         40          410      450      1.99
1.4   Medium-term program                         3.20        40,00      43.20         40          500      540      2.39
1.5   Fquipment                                   0,00         6,80       6,80          0           05       85      0.38
1.6   Operating Costs                            33.60        12.00      45,60        420          150      570      2.52
1.7   ContinganciLa                              47.20       210.00    257,20         590         2625    3215      14.21
physical                                  0,00         0,80       0.80          Q           10       10      0.04
price                                    11.20        50.40      61,89I       140          635     775       3.40
Total                                    58.40       261,20    319.60         730         3270    4000      17.66
2.    REHABILITATION OF SONELEC
2.1   Technical Assistance and
training                                  40.00       156.00    196.00         500         1950    Z450       10.83
2.2   Water Nouakchott                           28.00       200,00    228,00         350         2500    2850      12.60
2.3   Elfctricitv Pouakchott                     36,00       184,00    220,00         450         2300    2750      12.16
2.4   Electricity Nouadhibou                     28,00       144.00    172,00         350         1800    2150       9.50
2.5   Water l:ouadbibou                          36.00       340.00    376,00         450         4250    4700      20.78
2.6   Contingenciec                             168,no      1024,00   1192.00        2100        12800   14900      65.87
physical                                 16.80       102.40    119.20        210         1280    1490        6.59
price                                    36,80      225,60    262,40         460         2820    3280       14.50
Total                                   221.60      1352,00   1573,60        2770       16900   19670       86.96
3.    REHABILITATION OF EMN
3.1   Technical Asaisttnce and
training                                   10.00       83.20      93.20         125        1040    1165        5.15
3.2   Rehabilitation of existing                  3,20        24,00      27.20         40          300      340      1.50
facilities
3.3   Equipment and spare parts                   0.00       154.00    154,00           0         1925    1925       8.51
3.4   Office rape'r and equipment                1.60         5.20        6,80         20           65       85      0.38
3.5   Contingencies                              14.80       266.40    281.20         185         3330    3515      15.54
physical                                 0.80          8.80       9.60         10          110     120       0.53
price                                     3,20       55,20       58,40        40          690      7?'       3.23
Total                                    18.80       330,40    349,20         235        4130    4365       19.30
4.    TECHICAL ASSISTANCE FOR OPT
4.1   Technlcal Assistance and
training                                   5.20        45.60      50.80         65          570      635       2.81
*.2   Equipennt and spare parts                   0.00        14.00      14.00          0          175      17;      0.77
4.3   Opersting Coata                            14,40         0,00      14,40        18             0      160      0.80
4.4   ContingencLe.                              19.60        59.60      79.20        245          745      990      4.38
physical                                 0.00          1.60       1,60         0            20      20       0.09
pric                                      4,00        12,00      16,00         50          150     200       0.88
Total                                    23.60       73.20       96.80        295          915    1210       5.35
5.    Total base cost                           249.60      1560.00   1809.60        3120        19500   22620    101.00
6.    ThP lcal contingencies                    17.60       113.60    131.20         ''0         1420    1640       1.25
7.    Price contingencies                        55.20       343.20    398.40         690         4295    4985      22.02
8.    Total continancas                          72,80       456,80    529,60         910         5715    6625      29.27
9.    TOTAL PROJECT cosT             CO                     2016.820   2392          420         L2512  E245       12 9al



- 37 -
ANNEX V
P ocursuent Table
Projeet                                       Procurnt Mthod             "             total
r.lennt                      Tc,            LCI           Other          N.A.          Cost
----US u     ls$  on)
Sector Raform
Te.hbical Assistance            --           --             0.%R 5                      0.53
and Training                                            (0.33)                      (0.53)
Consultrna Services *           -            --             2.50                        2.50
Audits
(2.38)                      (2.38)
Equipmnt 4 Repairs              --           --            0.04            -            0.04
(0.04)                      (0.04)
Operating Costs                 --           -              --            0.65          0.65
Salaries04                                                                          (.7
Total                                                31iT
(3.00)        (0.47)        (3.47)
SONELEC
Technical Assistancw            -            --             2.55           --           .55
and Training                                            (1.11)           _          (1.11)
Consulting Services             --           -              0.46            _           0.43
(0.41)           -          (0.41)
Nouakchott Water Supply
- equipment. materials        2.30          0.25          0.07            -            2.62
and spare ports            (2.30)        (0.25)        (0.05)                      (2.60)
- installatinn                0.35          -             0.53            -            O.a8
(0.35)                                                  (0.35)
2.65          0.25          0.60                        3.50
(2.:5)        (0.25)        (0.05)                      (2.95)
Wouadhibs,) Water Supply
- equimnct  martals          3.90          0.05           1.35           5- 3.30
and spare parts            (3.50)        (0.05)        (0.05)                      (3.60)
- installation                0.40                        0.50            -            0.90
(0.40)             _                                    (0.40)
4.30          0.05          1.85                        b.20
(3.90)        (0.03)        (0.05)                      (4.00)
Nouakchott ElectrIcity          -            --             3.63           -            3.63
Nouedhtbou Electricity          --           --             2.80           -            2.80
Total                   6.95           0.30         11.90            -          19.16
(6.55)        (0.30)        (1.62)                      (3.47)
EKIl
Tehnical Asoi.tance             -                            .a6            -0.36
and Training                                            (0.75)                      (0.7!:)
Consulting Services             --            --           0.21            -            0.21
(0.19)                     (0.19)
Equipment and Spsres           1.32          0.21            .97           -            2.57
(1.32)        (0.20)        (0.02)                      (1.54)
Physical Vorka                  -             --           0.39            -            0.39
Office Rehabilitation and    --              0.05           0.05           -            0.10
Equipment                                 (0.06)        (0.04)                      (0.0 )
Total                    1.32          0.33          2.4U                        4.13
(1.32)        (0.24)        (1.00)                      (2.56)
OPT
Training                        __            __            0.20                        0.O20
(0.17)                      (0.17)
Consulting Servicas             --            --            0.54           -           0.54
(0.49)                      (0.49)
Equipment                                    0.25           -              -           0.25
(0.25)                                    (0.25)
Operating Costs                 -             -              -            0.21          0.21
'otel                                  0.25          0.76          0.21          1.20
(0.25)        (0.67)                      (0.90)
FPF Refinancing                 -            0.05           0.90          0.05          1.00
(0.05)        (0.90)        (0.05)        (1.00)
TOTAL                          8.27          0.93          19.16          0.90         29.25
Note: Figuras in parentheses are th, respective amounts financed by the Aasoiation



- 38 -
ANNEX VI
Dtsbursement Categories
Project Element                                           Total           IDA          Percentage of Expenditures
Cost         Credit         Financed by IDA
-uss million)-
Sector Reform
Technical Assistance. Training and                         1.95          1.50          100[   of total expenditures
Consulting Services for Studiam
and Assignments
Consulting Services for Preparation                        0.67          0.60          1001 of total expenditures
of Medium Term Plan
External Audits                                            0.56          0.30          601 of total expenditures
Office Equipment and Vehicles                              0.12          0.05          1001 of foreign coat if directly
imported and 752 if locally procured.
Local Consultant. and Staff Salaries                       0.45          0.30          1001 of local consultants' salaries
Other Operating Costs                                      0.25          0.15          75  of total expenses
Total                                                      4.00          2.90
SONELEC
Technical Assistance and Training                          2.73          1.10          751 of total expendicures
Consulting Services                                        0.50          0.30          1002 of total expenditures
Rehabilitation of Nouakchott Water Syatem
- Equipment, Materials and Spare Parts                   2.95          2.65          1001 of foreign cost if directly
imported and 751 if locally procured.
- Installation. Connection and Works                     0.88          0.35          1001 of foreign expenditu:es
Rehabilitation of Nouadhibou Water System
- Replacement of transmission pipeline                   2.80          2.30          902 of total expenditures
- Pumping Station and Equipment,                         1.20          1.20          1001 of foreign cost if directly
Maintenance Equipment                                                            imported and 75% if locally procured
- Installation, Connection and Works for                 0.40          0.30          1001 of foreign cost
above Equipment
- Other Equipment and Installation                       1.80           -
Rehabilitation of Nouakchott Electricity System            3.63
Rehabilitation of Nouadhibou Electricity System            2.80           -
Total                                                     19.69          8.1
ElN
Technical Assistance. Training                             1.27          1.10          902 of total expenditures
and Consulting Services
Port Equipment and Spares                                  2.60          1.22          1001 of foreign expenditures if
directly imported and 75Z if locally
procured
Uharf Rahabilitation                                       0.39           -
Office Rehabilitation and Equipment                        0.10          0. 08         752 of total expenditures
Total                                                      4.36          2.40
OPT
Training                                                   0.20          0.15          902 of total expenditures
Consulting Services                                        0.54          0.40          90: of total expenditures
Equipment                                                  0.25          0.25          1002 of total expenditures
Operating Coats                                            0.21           -
Total                                                      1.20          0.80
PPF Refinancing                                            -             1.00
Revolving Fund for Sector Reform                                         0.25
Component
Unallocated                                                -             0.95
Total                                                     295 _26



- 39 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 2
MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
GOVERNMENT REFORM MEASURES
The emergency measures adopted by Government in November 1983 to
reform the public enterprise (PE) sector include the following:
(a) a classification of all PEs into four categories--those
that should stay as PEs, those that should be privatized,
those that should rightly be part of the public sector,
and those that should be liquidated-plus a moratorium on the
creation of new public enterprises;
(b) the adoption of a policy of cost-based prices to be
gradually introduced starting in 1984, with operating
subsidies eliminated except where fully justified
for socio-political reasons and to the extent that
Government-imposed prices are kept below cost;
(c) the prompt payment by Government of goods and services
acquired from public enterprises, starting in 1984, based
on realistic budgets, and the settlement of unpaid bills from
1983 and preceeding years in 1984;
(d) the settlement of inter-company and company/government/bank
debts, based on the net indebtedness of these parties as
of end-1983, through compensation and refinancing, and
if necessarv arbitration;
(e) the trimming of excess staff by a freeze on hiring of
unskilled workers and gradual reduction of numbers,
through strict enforcement of labor regulations;
(f) an investigation into salaries for PEs, based on
comparison of job content and evaluations, leading
to recommendations for an appropriate salary structure;



- 40-
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 2
(g) development of a model budget structure and procedures
for PEs to apply as of 1985, with compliance to
existing statutory procedures in 1984 and the
monitoring of budget and actuals;
(h)  requirement for enterprises to strengthen their billing
and collection procedures, including appropriate
penalties for late payment;
(i) recruitment of qualified accountants in all EPICs,
to improve their financial management, reporting and control
systems;
(j) the training of some 20 accountants and a review
of the selection criteria for accountants and auditors;
(k)  the requirement for all enterprise investment plans to be
compatible with overall economic and social development
objectives, and subject to detailed feasibility studies for
each investment. Investments of over UM 20 million
would have to be approved by Cabinet; and
(1) the creation of monitoring units in each technical
ministry, with a separate structure to be created in the
Ministry of Plan to monitor and coordinate the parastatal
recovery program.
WAPPE
November 1984



MAURITANIA
PUBLIC FNTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHAJILITATION PROJECT
SECTOR REFORM PROCRAI
REFORH HEASURE                                 ACTIVITY                                          TIMETABLE                               AGENCY                     STATUS
Legal Framework                1.   extension of public entetprem levu tn         cowpleted                                             Mfn. Plan                - nev laV was enacted ID
mixed enterprises                                                                                                           February 1984
2.   modernization of relevant PE law              cocpleted                                             min. Plan                - new law was enacted In
February 1984
3.   adoption of general statutes for all PEs   completed                                                min. Plan                - draft of new atatutes
reviewed by Bank
4.   modification of legal basis for SONFLEC,   end-1985                                                 enterprises/Mn. Plan  - requirements set out
DMd and OPT                                                                                                                  in enterprise oet1on
plans. according to
needs Identified at
appraisal.
5.   provide nev regulations for operation of   completed                                                Min. Plan                - new regulations Issued
PE board of directors                                                                                                        in 1964
Sector Restructuring           1.   classification of enterprises into those   completed for 30 enterprises                             min. Plan                - decision  taken by
to be retained and rehabilitated. those                                                                                     Couneil of Ministers tn
to be tiquidated, those to be privatised                                                                                    April 1984.
and those to be coverted to quasi-
government service (EPAP)
2.  lpleewntation of lat Phase restructuring  program Initiated and to be undertaken over               Interministerial         - progress on
plan                                         project period (see *ttsched)                          Commission of           1iple_ntation in
(a) liquidations                                                                                    technical sintiter.    attached
(b) privatizationas                                                                                 and min. Plan
(c) conversion to EPAP
(d) rehabilitation
Settlenent of Interlocking   i.   agreement on amounts due by Covernment,    substantially complete for 15 major enterprisesa    Min. Plan/Min.                  - report issued on debts , 
Debts                               enterprises snd banks                         settlesent for 12 enterprises eompleted                Finance                 of enterprises            lb
aettlewnt for OPT, for end-December 1985                                                                ORQ
settlement for SOC(G114 and SMCPP by end-1986                                                            iv X
2.   monitoring of repayment and other             Biannual review starting July 198S, throughout        min. Plan/Min.           - Siannual reports        0  14
settlement metlods                           project per!Jd                                         Finance                 starting in July 1984 toF F"
review settlemet terma t
being met



Tariff and Price Policy         1.   adjustmenta to sntarprimea  prices and          project period; initial tariff Incresse for EMN    Hin. Plan/Council of   - tariff change of ElN
tariffs as required                            condition of nagotiatinn; further tariff                Hiniaters                approved by Its bard.
increases for SONELEC and Dal to ba mde as                                       now watting final
apecified In credit agreement.  In other                                         Covernmoet approval;
enterprisea, rovernant to adjust pricees/tariffa                                 price increase granted
based on roqueats of Individual enterprisea                                        for PLAMfoIIS; price
Increase for SIP! under
atudy
Proupt Paywent by               1.   Inclusion of realistic budget allocationa  1984 to Include SONELEC sales to direct                      Min. Plan/Min.           - 1984 target of SOILEC
Government                           in Covernment operating budget                  Covernment servicers  1985 to be extended to            Finance                  males to direct
Include all enterprisea; required for OPT and                                    Government servieas was
SONELEC as condition of effectiveres                                             moet; 1985 target to be
-'  by Deceter 1984
2.   monitoring o1 Invoices, payments and            bilannual review starting July 1985, throughout         Min. Plan/Min.           - biannual report
arrears by Government                          project period                                                  Finance          starting in July 1984 to
review arrears for
SoWELEC and OPT
Approprfite PE Salary           1.   carry out study of current salary               study to be coupleted bv end 1986                       Min. Plan                - ILO prepared overview v
Policy                               structures                                                                                                                       paper In Kay 1984.
Terms of reference for
btoader study completed
end approved by
Rank.
2.   adopt necessary policy changes                 Government decisions by mid-1987                        Kin. Plan                 - Implementation to be
supported under project
Reduiction of Labor Force       1.   Reduction through attrition and layoffs,   project period; completed for EMN. SOtIl. SOWHAER  Kin. Ilintanterprises  labor forees of four
as part of sector restructuring and            and  M.)T    Others vill reduce stanff through                                   enterprises reduced
enterprise rehabilitation                      liquidation and attrition.  SONELEC to make                                      - E34  (from 400 to 3201
manpower study that may result in further                                        -  soIn  (90)
reductions                                                                       - SOISADRa (200)
- OTH (froe 200 to 14)
Improvement to PE Bfilings   1.   improvement to accounting systems                 project period, part of acton plans for 001.           Kin. Plan/enterprises  actions underway at
and Collections                                                                      SONEIEC and OPT; also underway In banking sector                                 SOIELFC; to arart in DOI
and OPT in 1985
2.   enforcement of strict collection               Ouarterly report on propreas in reducing                Kin. Planfenterprises  First quarterly report           0P  Z
procedures                                     uncollected bills                                                                 In July 1985                  M  M
OC
9b 4
IA



Accounting lsprovementa        1.   adoptiont 'f nattenat accounting plan           Plan adopted in 1981.  All public anterprisas to   Hin. Finance                 - plan preparation aNd
comply by and 1985                                                              Implementation with
MP/=rS  assists ce
2.   adoption of r,ctoral accounting plan           Studies endervwy to be completed by end 1985.          Hin, Finance             - plan preparation and
Government approval by mid-1986                                                 implenatatlom with
UNDP/IW aesetaoce
3.   developeant of standard budget practices   Study to be carried out by mid-1986 within                 Min. Plan/Nin.           - support to be provided
prc3ect. to be implemented for 1987 fiscal year    Tinence                      under project; draft
terms of reference
prepared and revtewed by
sank
4.   replacement of 'Agent Coeptable" with          Change appproved In February 1954                      Min. Pln/lMin.           - part of new PtE lav;
Chief Accountant os direct employee of                                                                Finance                  aceountants have changed
PRe                                                                                                                            status
5.   trainins of 40 qualified accountanta           training prograsm  taTted in October 19U  for 3       t(PP1/Lo                 - training of 40
yacra                                                                           accountars part of
emll scale Industry
project support to
Mauritania; priority to
pta and Sank financed
projects
Review and Linits to PE        1.   moratorlum on creation of new PEs eacept   Council of Ministers approved In November 1983              Min. Plan                - prior coneultation
Investments _nvestment Prosr_
eztraordinarv with
IDA to be agreed to
as part of general
economic recovery
2.   approval by Council of Ministers of major  Council of MInisters approved In November 1983             KIn. Plan                - procedures in place
Investmental subject to feasibility
studiles
3    prior consultation with IDA of maor            project-period                                         Kin. Plan/enterprises  - condition of credit
Investments by V., OPT and SONELEC                                                                                             and project agreementa
Creation of Central PR          1.   satabliabmwnt of CPSP in tinistry Of Plan  creation decree approved by the President In June  Min. Plan                        - director appointed In
Policy Unit end PE unite In                                                         1984; staffing underway                                                         Augusa 1S44
Tecninral Ministries
2.   establashment of units In technical            1985                                                   Min Plan/Technical       - action not yet started       CI>
*fnistris                                                                                             Ministries
Oa



- 44 -
ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 3
MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
FIRST-PHASE SECTOR PESTRUCTURING
(30 Industrial Enterprises)
Enterprise                Decision           Timetable              Status
SONELEC                 rehabilitate              1984-88       1st phase underway as
(electricity and                                                part of project (see
water supply)                                                   Action Plan, Annex X)
OPT (post and            rehabilitate             1985-86       short-term emergency
telecommunications)                                             rehabilitation
measures to be
implemented as part of
project; full
rehabilitation plan to
be prepared (see
Action Plan, Annex
XII)
EMN (port)               rehabilitate             1984-87       part of project; new
port to operate in
1987 (See Action Plan,
Annex XI)
MAFCO (fishing)          liquidate                1984           factory closed,
liquidation action
underway
SMTH (hotel)             liquidate                1984-85       Hotel closed,
liquidation action
underway
ENAJ (youth              liquidate                1984          completed
organization)
ONC (cinema)            privatize with            1984          sale completed
Government minority
SOMIR (refinery)         closelprivatize          1984-85       operations ceased;
search for private
investor underway



- 45 -
ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 3
SNC (textile)            privatize                 1984-85       search for partners
underway;
privatization expected
to be completed by
end-1985
SOMACAT (transit)        merged with SONIMEX       1984          merger completed
Ferme %'Pourie           privatize                 1984-1989     to be gradually sold
(state farm)                                                     to farmers now working
land
Projet Sucre (sugar      close/privatize           1984-1985     sugar refinery closed;
refinery and                                                     search for private
processing plants)                                               investor underway for
sugar processing
SOCOGI!  (housing        reorganize; limit         1984-87       construction
construction and         operations to                           activities phased-out
management)              housing management
PHARMARIM (pharmacy      break up monopoly         1984          private enterprise
retail and               and allow private                       providing competition
wholesale)               sector competition                       since early 1984
SMCPP (gasoline          reorganize; reduce        1985          number of retail
retail)                  scope of operations                     outlets reduced in
early 1984; financial
restructuring in 1985;
rehabilitation to be
considered later
OCO (stadium)            transfer to district    1984            Completed
Government
OMN (religious           converted from            1984          Completed
organization)            enterprise to EPAP;
Government subsidy
eliminated
OHRG (geological         convert from public       1984          Completed
research)                enterprise to EPAP
CNEA (renewable          convert to                1984          Completed
energy research)         Government service
SNIM (iron ore)          rehabilitate              1985-88       discussions underway
with Bank and other
cofinanciers



- 46 -
ANNEX IX
Page 3 of 3
SONADER                  rehabilitate; limit      1984-86        agreement reached with
(agriculture/rural      operations                              Bank and other donors
development)                                                     on rehabilitation
plan; selling-off of
construction branch
underway; financing
for rehabilitation
being sought
Port Autonome de         reorganize               --             diagnostic study by
Nouadhibou (port)                                                CCCE underway; no
action anticipated
OTM (rug making)         rehabilitate             1984-88        rehabilitation
underway with
financing from IDA,
small scale industry
project (Cr. 888-MAU)
SONIMEX                  reorganize               1984-86        diagnosis completed
(import/export                                                  and transport
company)                                                         activities privatized
STPN (urban              rehabilitate,            1985-86        financial study
transport)               possibly in joint                       on-going to establish
venture with                            tariffs
private partner
Air Mauritanie           retain as public         --             diagnosis and
(airline)                enterprise                             rehabilitation plan to
be prepared in 1986,
possibly with project
funds
SOMECOB (livestock       Additional studies       1986-87        studies to be done
marketing)               recuired                                under project by
December 1986 for
decision by mid-1987
SMAR (insurance)         Additional studies       1986-87        studies to be done
required                               under project by
December 1986 for
decision by mid-1987
CNORF (training for      retain as public         --             small operation with
handicapped)             enterprise                              no major problems
LNTP (construction       retain as public         --             small operation with
research)                enterprise                             no major problems



KAURITAIIA
PULLtC flTERFRISK TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
SONELEC: ACTION PLAN
Activity                                                 Timetable                                       Expected Output/Target
A. Inetitutional Framework
- 509LEC ahould undertake the following reforma to Its legal                  - March 311  1966                    - neW laws enacted a& appropriate
etructuto:
- transfer of all water and electricity asets to SOIELEC
- enforcement of monopoly rights for electricity
dintribution end production
- confirmation of SONELCC's responsibility for ewverage
operations
- statesent of SONELEC's rights and duties via the public
- changes to Board of Directora
- clarification of financial autonoey
- estabilihent of water code                                                  - June 30. 198                       - nev lav enacted as appropriate
B. Improvements to billings and Collections
- analynla of cuatcnmr'o sccount eand provision against bad                   - December 31. 19E4 to               - reduction of 50  in arreare from current levels of  me'
debte                                                                         June 30. 1946                        year's sales
- development of regular program of meter Inspection, repair
and replaeement
- program of ection to collecr arrears including cuts in
service
C. Staffing end Ortantiation
- adoption of nov organization structure to increase                          - June 1985                          - new organization chart
meparation of water and electricity operations and to enhance
accountablitty
- reviev of current establishoent and staffing needs                          - July 1985                          - rationalieatiou of SOIELEC's present staffing levels;   Cg  Z
especially for force account opezations. sewerage operations                                                       reduce labor force by 102 by end Dcesmber 1985.  Manpeper  fb C
and middle annagemnt levels                                                                                        plan to be apptoved ty July 31. 1S5               1X
- preparation of a training mnd recruitment program reflecting                - August 31. 1945                    - training plans to be carried out tbrough 19t6 and 19d7   0
those needs                                                                                                                                                                         Ih



D. Kenagesent Information Systems
- development of improved (computerized) informatiton systems                    - January 198S to June                - operational Information system generating timely data in
particularly fort                                                                146                                   Identified areas
- custaMer accounts
- Inventory and stock control
- supplier accounts
- connect ions
- advance paymnts
- technical efficiency and output
- fuel consumption
- separaction of water and electricity accounts
F. Accounting. Tariffs end Finance Policies
- development of accounting system to altocate costa                             - January 1986 to                     - clear principlee for separation of accowunt  (see HIS
separately to water and electricity opeationa                                   Decemher 1986                          above)
- detailed study to examine:                                                     - January 19R7-June 1987
*  ex-factory costs to determine cost of electricity
operations
analysis of client accounts In order to sesaes  revenue
generation by type of client, location. etc.
*  developmnt of appropriate tariff policy tekinR into                                                             - propogals for tariff policy to be approved by XWoevber
account above client and cost analysis and longear tem                                                         30. 1986
investment program
- application of new tariff structure                                            - December 31. 1987                   - new tariff schedule effective January 1, 19&
F. Electricity and Wnter Operations
- SONELEC uindertake a program of opdrating improvements                         - December 1984 through               - increase in technical operating efficiency of
Including:                                                                       1916                                  electricity system to e61 overall for esycee and 602
- preparation of physical plana and documents of SONFLEC'e                                                          overall for water by 1987
systems
- establish appropriate polictes and preparation of
appropriate work procedures, manuals and other documents
for routine operations snd maintenance activity
- entablishment of necessary stock control procedures
and policles                                                                                                                                                                         lb
- upgrading of physical capability as a result of
rehabilitation of existing facilities under project                                                                                                                                 co  X
NJ
x



HAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHAIILITATION PROJlECT
E0N: ACTION FLAl
Activity                                                  Timetable                                         Expected Output/Target
A.  Institutional Framwork
- transfer of new port operations to ElQ upon completion                       - six months after                    - clear right for 13  to operste new port: clartfication
completion (December                  of role of old port vie-a-vie nev facilities
"387)
B. Staffing and Organiaetion
- reductton of labor force to 250 from 318                                     - end December 1985                   - reduction of labor toste by iU  I millifoo
- reorgenization of EMl into four departmnts, each beaded by                   - completed                            - rationalfation of exfsting fietions and specific
qualified director: including "capiteainery" for port                                                                assigneent of responsibility for port operacions
operations
- training of counterparts and other ataff according to agreed                 - plan to be prepared                 - formal end on-the-job training program for Departmnt
program covering,                                                              June 30. 1985 for                     directors (4 months each), intermedlate staff, sd skilled
- eccounting                                                                ioplementation over                   labor
- maintenance                                                               193547
- port operations
- general administration
C. Management Infotaxtion Systems
- development of appropriate information systeam  for:                                                               - inplementation of coherent and Integrated inforsation
- general ledger accounting applications                                    - December 1985                       sstems covering all aspects of ENU's operations
- statistical systems for port operations and cargo                         - December 1985
handlIng
- eystels  for personnel (salaries, personnel inforsation),                 - December 1985
supplies and stock
- budget and coat accounting systems                                        - June 1486
- corporate planning (mdium-ters)                                           - June 1986
0. Accounting, Tariffs and Financial Policy                                                                                                                                                               lb
- preparation of interim tariff policy based on financial                      - June 1986                           - establish basis for tariff structure cver short term,                 X
objectives. costs and operating proepects                                                                             awaiting operation of new port
0t-
- adoption of a new tariff structure based no the cost of                      - March 1987                          - adoption of cost-related tariff structure                         1t
flU's operations by type of marehandies and mthod of
operation



E Port Operations
- Institmte progrsm of productivity iaprove_ato by better                  - December t18' to                  - target  for 1967 establishedt
inageamnt, higher *quipmet availability, ifproved planning                 Iecaher 19117                           - increase productivity per shift fr. SOW z to *S0 t
and ship arrival                                                                                                     for ship. at anchor; 800 t to 750 t for ship. at
berth
- raduca ship wsttag tim  to about zero
- reduce mrcmadaxe storage tim. to 12 da.
- locreAse cargo equipment availability to e02
I
&A
09 0
0 X



KAIUTANIA
PUBLIC 3ATElPJISE t ECNICAL ASSISTANCE AUD UllASILITATION P1.3CT
Orr: ACTION PLAN
Activity                                                t_imtable                                       Exected Oetput/Target
A. Inetitutional Praevwork
- clarify OPT'a reasponasibility and role vis-a-vls management               - March 31, 1908                     - legal basrs establise  faT OFT's a ngremt to operate
of National Savings Bank (NSB)                                                                                    usa
provide official recognition of OPT's training center                      - March I1, 1986                     - ropemiug of oPTs traleieg cester sed offtctti
recogmit io of traiSiag certificate
S. Staffing and ntasgasatlon
I
- creation of required organization structures for:                          - January 1936                       - itresgthen ezietiug sccintisg finetioem   d add to it. 
- general accounting                                                                                           as approprisate. to operate qw syatem
- client accounts
- cost accountieS
- data processigo
recruit end/or redeploy staff to fill poets In nev                         - March 1986
st ructures
- prepared training program and train staff In identified                    - June 19t6 through Is$?
areas (accounting. data procaessing. etc.)
C.  Management Informtlon Syatess
- dawelopmant of appropriate  oemputerized information systrue               - March 1985 to Cecesber             - Implemestation of appropriate systot  as spaecifed
for following applicationst                                                  1986
general ledger
- elient accounts aging and billings
- Inventory and stock control
- cost ccounting taeparation of post and tolecomunication
accounts)
- payroll and personnel management
- operational monitoring
- produce separated aecouots for post and                                 - March 198                          - resled Statemt of eccmomte
telecomeunications                                                                                                                                                             lb
D. Telecomunications Operationa _sX
- discussion of diagnostic report vith IDA to agr* - to short                - April 198S                                                                                             I
term action plan
- June 148S - to be
- implementation of thost racommendations                                    determined



- 52 -
ANNEX XIII
Page 1 of 1
Project Preparation Facility
Component                                                           Ammount
CUSs'oo0)
Sector Reform -  Technical assistance (10 staff-months)               100
2-3 vehicles and office equipment                    85
Supplies and operating costs                         15
Training, travel and salaries                        35
Sector Reform Subtotal                              235
EMN            -  Technical assistance (12 staff-months)              123
Studies for berth rehabilitation                     40
Overseas training (5 staff-months)                   35
Spare parts and equipment                            37
EMN  Subtotal                                       235
SONELEC        -  Technical assistance (20 staff-months)              181
Spare parts and equipment for
Nouakchott water supply system                      238
Studies for protection of
Nouadhibou power supply system                       20
SONELEC Subtotal                                    438
Unallocated (10%)                                    92
Total                                             i 0,



_______________               _                                                                                             BR_ _D 164$2F
IMAIIPk I ANI A
AIIC
-   ;         ~~A  f  R I C  A            -
MAURITANIA
2r         AW0A ~MOROCCO
r-AvtD RoP                                                         MOlROC  
PAVED ROAS UNOEP CONSTRUCTION
L tATEIIITEIEARTH ROADS
- TRAICS                                              Aalun |
-...- .'RMAILROAD                                                                                            ALG             IA
4    AIRrIELOS
t    INTERNAl IONAL AIRORT S
PC RTS
INTERNATIONAL SOUNDARIES
INDICA1ESTHE TEFIRITORYOF THE
FO RM FI SPARNIIH SAHARA                                  A e8ir-MogFr.
I WESTh RNySAHARA I 
F ORME R \
____7,D__________                   SPA  N  I S  H                             i
SAHARA    j
DakNhooAt                                             --, 
I   iViIo-CiuiorosV                                            --                               >,2 
~~~. FDe ~--  -------MALI
Zurate -- -------
CIICU--           - - ---- ---
Lo Guerra                                                  - 6 u cacbne
20Ai                                M                    \                                    , iI
BotIif    Canzr6fo                erch I                              -~.
;c(TomchaTkchit
NI()LAKCHOT _                                                 ';                             '       
XMeedo  -~      h\                              ~            -.ueAtos   --
f otid. >~~~~~<\_ A ;C~~~erno 
S E N E G A L                                   1                      ~ ,,r,,, _r~.--.,.S.>.H.>&&&AGAN  Z. -
.'   ernR _,'
p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EIUR  9t



