OFFICIAL C    DIT NUMBER 1567 MAU
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Public Enterprises Technical Assistance and
Rehabilitation Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1567 MAU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    I3                       , 1985, between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Borrower, and by
SONELEC, EMN and OPT with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to SONELEC,
EMN and OPT part of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter
provided;
(C) the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation of the French
Republic is financing as a grant services to SONELEC under Part B
of the Project;
(D) by agreement to be entered into between the European
Investment Bank (hereinafter called EIB) and SONELEC, (such
agreement hereinafter called the EIB Loan Agreement), EIB intends
to make a loan (hereinafter called the EIB Loan) to SONELEC in an
aggregate principal amount of about four million dollars to
assist in financing Part B of the Project on the terms and condi-
tions therein set forth;
(E) by agreement dated July 5, 1984 (hereinafter called
the CCCE Loan Agreement), the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique of the French Republic has agreed to make a loan to
SONELEC in an aggregate principal amount of eighty-nine million
French Francs to assist, inter alia, in financing Part B of the
Project on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
(F) by agreement to be entered into between the Commission
of the European Economic Community and the Borrower, (such agree-
ment hereinafter called the EDF Agreement) the Commission of the
European Economic Community intends to make a credit to the Bor-
rower out of its European Development Fund resources in an aggre-
gate principal amount of one million six thousand ECU to assist
in financing Part C of the Project ; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the


﻿-2-
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreements of even date herewith between the Association and
SONELEC, EMN and OPT, respectively;
NOW THEREFORE the parties 'hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective  meanings   therein   set  forth  and   the  following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MINPLAN" means the Borrower's Ministry responsible for
Planning;
(b) "CRSP" means the "Cellule de RAhabilitation du Secteur
Parapublic," a project management unit operating within MINPLAN
pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(c) "MINFIN" means the Borrower's Ministry responsible for
Finance;
(d)  "Parapublic Sector" or "Public Enterprises" means the
Borrower's Etablissements Publics and Societes d'Economie Mixte;
(e) "Etablissement Public" means any of the Etablissements
Publics referred to in the Borrower's Ordonnance No. 84038, dated
February 25, 1984;
(f)  "Societe d'Economie Mixte" means the industrial, com-
mercial or artisan corporations in which the Borrower or a
political subdivision of the Borrower owns directly or indirectly
a portion of the share capital;


﻿-3-
(g)  "Program-contract" means a contractual document def in-
ing the reciprocal commitments of the Borrower and individual
Public Enterprises over the medium-term;
(h) "SONELEC" means Socift& Nationale d'Eau et d'Electri-
cit6, an Etablissement Public A Caract&re Industriel et Commer-
cial of the Borrower established and operating pursuant to Decree
No. 75-170 dated May 23, 1975;
(i) "SONELEC Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and SONELEC of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the SONELEC Project Agreement and all agreements
supplemental to the SONELEC Project Agreement;
(j) "SONELEC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and SONELEC pursuant to
Section 3.01(d)(i) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
SONELEC Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(k)  "EMN" means Etablissement Maritime de Nouakchott, an
Etablissement Public a Caractire Industriel et Commercial of the
Borrower established and operating pursuant to Decree No. 75-057
dated February 21, 1975 as modified by Decree No. 80-167 dated
July 12, 1980;
(1)  "EMN Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and EMN of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the EMN Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to
the EMN Ptojett Agreement;
(m) "EMN Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and EMN pursuant to Section
3.01(d)(ii) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the EMN
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(n)  "OPT" means Office des Postes et Telecommunications, an
Etablissement Public ' Caractere Industriel et Commercial of the
Borrower established and operating pursuant to Decree No. 59-051
dated July 4, 1959 and Decree No. 62-002 dated January 2, 1962;
(o) "OPT Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and OPT of even date herewith, as the same may be


﻿4-
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the OPT Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to
the OPT Project Agreement;
(p) "OPT Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and OPT pursuant to Section
3.01 (d)(iii) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the OPT
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(q) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated March 27, 1984 and
May 25, 1984 between the Borrower and the Association;
(r) "Special Account" means the account to be opened and
thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of this
Agreement;
(s) "UM" means the Borrower's currency;
(t)   "New Port" means the Port de l'Amitie located about
6 km south of EMN's present port facilities; and
(u) "Parapublic Sector Action Plan" means the plan of
action transmitted by the Borrower to the Association by letter
of even date herewith and setting forth the detailed features of
Parts A.3, 4 and 5 of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixteen million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 16,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-5-
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Pro-
ject Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A, B.5,
C.7 and D.3 of the Project, open and thereafter maintain in UM a
special account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1990
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of..the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-6-
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each
year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1995, and ending
February 15, 2035, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 15, 2005, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.10. (a) The Director of CRSP is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions in respect of Categories (1) through (6) of the table
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) SONELEC is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions in respect of Categories (7)
through (12) of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment; EMN is so designated in respect of Categories (13) through
(17); and OPT is so designated in respect of Categories (18)
through (21).
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (i) carry out Part A of the
Project through CRSP with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, management
and commercial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for


﻿-7-
the purpose; and (ii) without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under this Agreement, cause SONELEC,
EMN and OPT to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
SONELEC, EMN and OPT Project Agreements, respectively, all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
SONELEC, EMN and OPT to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall, in respect of Parts B, C and D of
the Project, and without limitation to paragraph (a) above: (i)
assist SONELEC, EMN and OPT, respectively, in the employment of
independent auditors as required under the respective Project
Agreements; and (ii) carry out all monitoring and coordination
activities as may be necessary.
(c) The Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain CRSP within MINPLAN with such responsi-
bilities, functions and composition as shall be
satisfactory to the Association, including CRSP's
Director as well as its Chief Technical Advisor
and staff referred to in Section 6.01 (d) of this
Agreement, all with qualifications, experience and
functions satisfactory to the Association.
(ii)   cause CRSP, inter alia, to supervise the services
of-the experts referred to in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement, to coordinate  the carrying out of all
Parts of the Project, and to collaborate with the
Borrower's Ministry of Finance and other minis-
tries or departments as may be necessary for
purposes of the Project.
(d) The Borrower shall relend:
(i)   the proceeds of the Credit which may from time  to
time be allocated to Categories (7) through (12)
of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as well as the equivalent of
SDR 450,000 allocated to Category (22) to SONELEC
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and SONELEC under terms


﻿-8-
and conditions which shall have been approved by
the  Association   and   which  shall   include  a
fifteen-year   repayment  period,  including  five
years of grace, and an annual interest rate of
9.29%.
(ii)   the proceeds of the Credit which may from time to
time be allocated to Categories (13) through (17)
as well as the equivalent of SDR 240,000 allocated
to Category (22) to EMN under a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and EMN under terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Association and which
shall include a ten-year repayment period includ-
ing three years of grace, and an annual interest
rate of 9.29%; and
(iii)   the proceeds of the Credit which may from time to
time be allocated to Categories (18) through (21)
to OPT under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and OPT under
terms and conditions which shall have been ap-
proved by the Association and which shall include
a ten-year repayment period including three years
of grace, and an annual interest rate of 9.29%, it
being understood that neither SONELEC, EMN or OPT
shall be required to bear the foreign exchange
risk on such onlending.
(e) The Borrower shall make available to SONELEC, EMN and
OPT, respectively, as a grant the proceeds of the Credit which
may from time to time be allocated to Categories (12), (17), and
(21).
(f) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
SONELEC, EMN and OPT Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and
to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive any of said Subsidiary Loan Agreements
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ experts
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of


﻿-9-
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association, such experts
to be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Part A.1 (a) and (c) of the
Project, the Borrower shall provide an aggregate of seven man-
months of training for staff of CRSP and staff of the Direction
de la Tutelle Administrative et Financi6re of its Ministry of
Finance in the form of traineeships under arrangements which
shall have been approved by the Association.
Section 3.04. In carrying out Parts A.3 and A.5 of the
Project, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall carry out the Parapublic Sector Action Plan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall review with the Association
the recommendations resulting from studies or advisory services
carried out or provided under the Project, and shall implement
with due diligence those recommendations which shall be satis-
factory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.06. In carrying out Part B.4(b) and Part C.3(c) of
the Project, the Borrower shall, through CRSP, take all necessary
measures to prepare in consultation with the Association, and
thereafter conclude with SONELEC and EMN, not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1985 or such other date as may be agreed with the Asso-
ciation, program-contracts satisfactory to the Agsociation.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure; or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and procurement schedules for Part A


﻿- 10 -
of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part A of the Pro-
ject (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and to disclose their use in Part A of the Pro-
ject; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; (iii) shall on a quarterly
basis, furnish to the Association reports on the progress of
Part A of the Project and its comments on the progress achieved
in Parts B, C and D of the Project; (iv) shall conduct in con-
sultation with the Association, an annual review of the progress
achieved under the Project; and (v) shall furnish to the Associa-
tion at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning Part A of the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit. For the purpose, the Borrower shall obtain the assis-
tance of SONELEC, EMN and OPT in respect of Parts B, C and D of
the Project, respectively.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) cause CRSP to maintain separate accounts for Part A of
the Project and separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure; (ii) retain,
until one year after the Closing Date, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
the expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested
from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expendi-
ture; and (iii) enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon.as available, but in any
case not 1 -ter than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified   py of the report of such audit by such auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
roas6nably requested," including without limitation to the fore-
going, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records r-ferred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section as to whether the   roceeds of the Credit withdrawn from
the Credit Account on the oasis of statements of expenditure have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1987 or such later date as the Association may agree,
transfer the facilities and all other assets of the New Port, as
well as related liabilities, to EMN under arrangements satisfac-
tory to the Association.


﻿- 12 -
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall take all necessary mea-
sures required on its part, including adequate budgetary provi-
sions, to ensure that its public administrative bodies, including
autonomous public agencies, settle their dues to OPT and settle
their future bills to SONELEC, EMN and OPT promptly after receipt
thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall take all necessary measures required
on its part to enable OPT to enforce strictly its collection pro-
cedures.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall replenish quarterly its
revolving fund referred to in Section 6.01(e) of this Agreement
in order that at the beginning of every quarter a minimum balance
of UM 750,000 shall be available therein to finance expenditures
for Part A of the Project.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall for every year make ade-
quate budgetary allocations to ensure that CRSP shall at all
times continue to carry out its functions.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall, not later than March 30,
1986 or such other date as the Association may agree, take all
necessary measures, including the enactment of all necessary
legal instruments:
(a) to grant official recognition to the degrees issued by
OPT's training center; and
(b) to establish an appropriate legal framework for the
operation of the Borrower's National Savings Bank.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take all necessary steps
required on its part, including such action as may be necessary
to effect tariff or rate increases, to enable SONELEC to comply
with its obligations under Section 4.03 of the SONELEC Project
Agreement, to enable EMN to comply with its obligations under
Section 4.03 of the EMN Project Agreement, and to enable OPT to
comply with its obligations under Section 4.04 of the OPT Project
Agreement.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall not, without prior consul-
tation with the Association, amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or
waive its Ordonnance No. 84038 fixant le r6gime des Etablisse-
ments Publics, des Socift6s d'Economie Mixte et des Personnes


﻿- 13 -
Morales Privges b6n6ficiant du concours financier de 1'Etat,
dated February 25, 1984, or any part thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)  SONELEC, EMN or OPT shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under the SONELEC Project Agreement, the EMN Pro-
ject Agreement or the OPT Project Agreement, respectively.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
SONELEC, EMN or OPT will be able to perform its obligations under
the SONELEC, EMN or OPT Project Agreement, respectively.
(c)    Decree No. 75-170 dated May      23, 1975 or Decree
No. 75-057 dated February 21, 1975 and Decree No. 80-167 dated
July 12, 1980, or Decree No. 59-051 dated July 4, 1959 and Decree
No. 62-002 dated January 2, 1962, of the Borrower shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of SONELEC, EMN or OPT to
perform any of its obligations under the SONELEC, EMN or OPT
Project Agreement, respectively.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of SONELEC, EMN or OPT or for the suspension of their opera-
tions.
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower, and of SONELEC,
EMN and OPT to withdraw the proceeds of any
grant or loan made to the Borrower, SONELEC,
EMN or OPT for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the   terms   of  the   agreement   providing
therefor, or


﻿- 14 -
(B) any such loan shall have become due ald
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower, SONELEC, EMN or OPT establishes
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower, SONELEC, EMN or OPT to perform any of
its obligations under such agreement; and      (B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower, SONELEC, EMN or OPT from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower, SONELEC, EMN or
OPT under this Agreement and under the SONELEC,
EMN and OPT Project Agreements.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gene-
ral Conditions, the following additional, events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any events specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a perioQd of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c) or (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur;
(c) the events specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the SONELEC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and SONELEC;


﻿- 15 -
(b) the EMN Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and EMN;
(c) the OPT Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and OPT;
(d) the Borrower has appointed the Chief Technical Advisor
of CRSP and at least two professional staff responsible for
sector restructuring and rehabilitation activities of CRSP in
accordance with Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(e) the Borrower has established a revolving fund in a bank
account in Nouakchott to finance Part A of the Project and has
made an initial deposit therein of UM 750,000;
Cf) the Borrower has made budgetary allocations satisfac-
tory to the Association in its budget for the year January 1 -
December 31, 1985: (i) for the operations of CRSP, (ii) for
payment of services to be provided to it by SONELEC and OPT to
the Borrower or any subdivision of, or any entity owned by, the
Borrower, and (iii) for the settlement of net arrears due by the
Borrower to OPT;
(g) a new organization structure for SONELEC, satisfactory
to the Association, has been introduced;
(h) the rate adjustment referred to. in Section 4.Q3 of the
SONELEC Project Agreement and required to be. made in SONELEC's
fiscal year 1985 has come into effect;
(i) EMN has employed, pursuant .to,, Section 2.02 of the EMN
Project Agreement, four experts in thebfields of port operations,
management, accounting and mechanical maintenance, and at least
three of them have effectively taken up their positions.
(j) the Special Account has been opened in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement; and
(k) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of, or
initial disbursements under the EIB Loan Agreement, the CCCE Loan
Agreement and the EDF Credit Agreement have been fulfilled, other
than the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General


﻿- 16 -
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association:
(a) that the SONELEC Project Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by SONELEC, and is legally binding upon SONELEC
in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the EMN Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by EMN, and is legally binding upon EMN in accordance
with its terms;
(c) that the OPT Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by OPT, and is legally binding upon OPT in accordance
with its terms;
(d) that the SONELEC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and SONELEC and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and SONELEC in accordance with
its terms;
(e) that the EMN Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and EMN and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and EMN in accordance with its terms;
and
(f) that the OPT Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and OPT and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and OPT in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date 5ef k     f-7 1/ / '    , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Arti-
cle IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this
Agreement, the Minister responsible for Planning of the Borrower


﻿- 17 -
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministare du Plan et de
l'Am6nagement du Territoire
B.P. 230
Nouakchott
Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Cable address:                        Telex:
MPDI                                540 MTN
Nouakchott
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145  (WUI)


﻿- 18 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
ByA /                            40x~  J4
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/s              tAo      e.I
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
General Sector Reform
(1) Consultants'
services
(a) for Part A.6              520,000        100%
of the Project
(b) other                   1,540,000        100%
(2) Training                       110,000        100%
(3) Goods for Part                  60,000        100% of foreign
A.1 (b) of the                               expenditures
Project                                      and 75% of
local expendi-
tures
(4) Auditing Services               30,000        60%
(5) Operating expenses             160,000        75%
for CRSP (other
than staff)
(6) CRSP staff on contract         310,000        100%
Strengthening of SONELEC
(7) Goods for Part B.1           2,720,000        100% of foreign
of the Project in                            expenditures
respect of water                             and 75% of
supply installations                         local expendi-
in Nouakchott                                tures


﻿- 20 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(8) Installation, connec-          160,000       100% of foreign
tion and civil works                        expenditures
for Part B.1 of the
Project in respect of
water supply installa-
tion in Nouakchott
(9) Goods and services
for Part B.1 of the
Project in respect
of water supply
installations in
Nouadhibou
(a) Transmission            2,360,000       90%
pipeline
(b) Pumping station         1,230,000       100% of foreign
equipment, and                         expenditures
maintenance                            and 75% of
local expendi-
tures
(c) Installation,            310,000        100% of foreign
connection and                         expendA,i-tures
civil works for
above equipment
(10) Experts' services
(a) for Part B.2 of          310,000        100%
the Project
(b) other                    720,000        70%
(11) Training                      210,000       70%
(12) Auditing services             110,000       60%


﻿- 21 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
Strengthening of EMN
(13) Equipment for                  90,000        75% of total
Part C.2 of the                              expenditures
Project
(14) Goods for Part C.1 (a)      1,260,000        100% of foreign
of the Project                               expenditures
and 75% of
local expendi-
tures
(15) Experts' services           1,000,000        90%
(16) Training                      140,000        90%
(17) Auditing services              50,000        60%
Strengthening of OPT
(18) Goods for Part D.1 (b)        110,000        100%
of the Project
(19) Experts' services             470,000        90%
(20) Training                      260,000        90%
(21) Auditing services             150,000        60%
Special Account Project
Preparation Advance
and Unallocated
(22) Refunding of                1,030,000        Amount due
Project Prepara-                             under Section
tion Advance                                 2.02 (b) of
the Develop-
ment Credit
Agreement


﻿- 22 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(23) Initial deposit               260,000        Amount due
in Special                                   under Section
Account                                      2.02 (c) of
the Develop-
ment Credit
Agreement
(24) Unallocated                 1,220,000
TOTAL                 16,900,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount


﻿- 23 -
not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 210,000 may be made in
respect of Categories (18) and (19) on account of payments made
for expenditures before that date but after March 1, 1985;
(b) payments made for expenditures under Category (1) (a)
for the purpose of detailed rehabilitation plans under Part A.6
of the Project until the Borrower and the Association shall, on
the basis of the Annual reviews referred to in Section 3.08
(b) (iv) of the Development Credit Agreement, be satisfied with
the progress achieved in implementing the Parapublic Sector
Action Plan; and
(c) payments made for expenditures under Categories (18)
through (21) until the project manager referred to in Section
2.01 (b) of the OPT Project Agreement shall have been appointed.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Objectives
The objectives of the Project are:
(i) to elaborate new policies and prepare a detailed
rehabilitation strategy for the parapublic sector
as a whole;
(ii) to restructure the sector to the extent required
through specific measures which may include, inter
alia, reorganizing specific public enterprises,
divestitures and liquidations;
(iii) to prepare a new definition of the relationship
between the Borrower and its public enterprises by
initiating a system to introduce program-contracts
with specific public enterprises;
(iv) to improve the general institutional framework of
the parapublic sector to increase the operating
efficiency of public enterprises;
(v) to strengthen    the operations of three public
enterprises, namely, SONELEC, EMN, and OPT through
appropriate rehabilitation programs; and
(vi) to initiate a rehabilitation process for other
public enterprises.
Components
The Project consists of four Parts:
A.- General Sector Reform;
B.   Strengthening of SONELEC;
C.   Strengthening of EMN; and
D.   Strengthening of OPT.


﻿- 25 -
Part A: General Sector Reform
1.   (a) Strengthening, through advisory services and training,
of CRSP's capability in the development of new policies for the
parapublic sector as a whole, the coordination of rehabilitation
efforts in respect of specific enterprises, the restructuring of
selected enterprises, the improvement of the general institu-
tional framework and the monitoring of the performance of the
parapublic sector as a whole.
(b) Strengthening of CRSP's general capability by the
purchase of office furniture, equipment and vehicles, through
minor office improvements and through the provision of staff and
other means to achieve its purposes.
(c) Strengthening of MINFIN's capability in exercising its
oversight and control responsibilities in respect of the Para-
public Sector through training.
2.   Studies of basic constraints of the parapublic sector,
namely in the fields of staff renumeration, training, monitoring
systems and budgetary systems, in order to enable the Borrower to
prepare and develop steps to overcome such constraints.
3.   Assistance to the Borrower in implementing improvements to
the Parapublic Sector which shall include:
(i) restructuring of the sector through actions in
respect of selected enterprises, including, as
the case may be, privatization, liquidation or
reorganization;
(ii) making appropriate allocations in the Borrower's
budget and ensuring that no arrears to public
enterprises shall accumulate; and
(iii) settling reciprocal debts between the Borrower and
public enterprises.
4.   Strengthening, through advisory services, the capability of
MINPLAN and selected enterprises in preparing program-contracts
providing for clear objectives for the public enterprises and
mechanisms of government control over the enterprises with
adequate safeguards for the public enterprises' autonomy.


﻿- 26 -
5.   Adjustments or improvements to instruments governing the
general institutional framework of the Parapublic Sector, and to
instruments governing selected public enterprises, in order to
increase the operational efficiency of the Parapublic Sector.
6.   Preparation of a medium-term program for further improve-
ments to the Borrower's Parapublic Sector, including diagnostic
studies of selected public enterprises, detailed plans for the
rehabilitation of enterprises to be selected by agreement between
the Borrower and the Association, and further general parapublic
seCtor improvements.
Part B: Strengthening of SONELEC
1.   (a) Purchase of urgently needed spare parts, equipment,
materials and vehicles;
(b)   upgrading of connections, distribution networks and
generating capacity; and
-(c)   works, all for emergency support to or rehabilitation
of water supply and electricity production facilities in Nouak-
chott and Nouadhibou.
2.   Studies to identify further rehabilitation needs, to prepare
detailed rehabilitation plans, and to determine the ways and
means to achieve SONELEC's financial objectives.
3.   Staff training.
4.   (a) Strengthening, through advisory services, in the fields
of, inter alia, administration, engineering, information systems,
finance and accounting, of the organization, management and
operations of SONELEC; and
(b) the preparation of a program-contract.
5.   External audits of SONELEC's accounts.
Part C: Strengthening of EMN
1.   (a)   Purchase of urgently needed spare parts and equipment
and
(b)    repair works, all for emergency support of EMN's
present port operations.


﻿- 27 -
2.   Works and equipment for the purpose of rehabilitating EMN's
offices.
3.   Staff training.
4.   (a) Strengthening, on the basis of experts' recommendations
in the fields of, inter alia, administration, finance and
accounting, general maintenance and port operations, of the
organization, management and operations of EMN;
(b) a program of productivity and management improvements;
and
(c) preparation of a program-contract.
5.   A study of the terms and conditions of the transfer of the
facilities of the New Port facilities to EMN.
6.   Technical, financial and economic studies.
7.   Auditing of EMN's accounts.
Part D: Strengthening of OPT
1.     Strengthening of OPT's financial management accounting
systems (by, inter alia, separating postal and telecommunications
accounts) and data processing systems through:
(a)   the purchase of computer equipment and related mate-
rials;
(b) staff training; and
(c)  advisory services in the fields of general management,
finance and data processing.
2.   Preparation of a medium-term rehabilitation plan.
3.   Auditing of OPT's accounts.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1990.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in August 1984 (the Guidelines).
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 of this Schedule, goods manufactured
in Mauritania may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions of paragraphs 2.55
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appen-
dix 2 thereto.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 of this Schedule, the Borrower may
grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in accor-
dance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for works or goods whose cost is estimated to be
less than $100,000 may be procured after competitive bidding
advertised locally in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
3.2 of the Guidelines and other local procurement procedures
acceptable to the Association, provided that the aggregate cost
of goods so procured shall not exceed the equivalent of $250,000
in the case of each SONELEC and EMN and $100,000 in the case of
OPT.
2.    Computer equipment may be purchased by OPT after limited
international bidding in accordance with the provisions of para-
graph 3.2 of the Guidelines.


﻿- 29 -
3.   Contracts for goods whose individual cost is estimated to be
less than $10,000 after adequate bulking may be procured, after
having obtained at least three quotations from suppliers, pro-
vided that the aggregate cost of goods so procured shall not
exceed the equivalent of $50,000 in the case of the Borrower,
$100,000 in the case of SONELEC, $50,000 in the case of EMN and
$20,000 in the case of OPT.
4.    Civil works to be undertaken by SONELEC may be carried out
by force account.
E.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $20,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply;
provided, however, that where payments for such contract are to
be made out of the proceeds of the Special Account, the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association, pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines, shall be furnished to the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect
of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply; provided, however,
that where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
proceeds of the Special Account, the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association, pursuant to
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines together with the
other information specified therein, shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 (the Special Account Schedule) to the
Development Credit Agreement.
(c) the provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.   The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Part A and Parts B.5, C.7 and D.3 of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to
time to Categories (1) through (6), (12), (17) and (21) in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement; and
(c) the term "initial deposit" means an amount in UM
equivalent to the amount allocated to Category (23) and to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to the first sentence of paragraph 3 to this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   The Association shall, at the request of the Borrower, with-
draw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account the initial deposit. Thereafter
and on the basis of requests by the Borrower furnished to the
Association at such intervals as the Association shall specify,
the Association shall further so withdraw from the Credit Account
and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be
required to replenish the Special Account with amounts equal to
payments made out of the Special Account for eligible expendi-
tures, but only to the extent that the amount of any such
deposit, together with any amount remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such request, shall not exceed
in the aggregate the equivalent of the initial deposit. Except as
the Association may otherwise agree, each such deposit after the
initial deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective Categories referred to in


﻿- 31 -
paragraph 1 (b) above, and in the respective equivalent amounts,
as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the
request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Association into the Special Account after the
initial deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association in
respect of each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account such documents and other evidence as the Association
shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by
the Association: (a) when the Association shall have determined
at any time that all further withdrawals can be made directly by
the Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, or
(b) when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
the Categories referred to in paragraph 1 (b) above for Parts A,
B.5, C.7 and D.3, of the Project referred to in such paragraph,
minus the amount of any qualified agreement to reimburse made by
the Association and of any special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to said Parts of the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the initial deposit, whichever
shall be sooner. Withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said
Categories for said Parts of the Project shall follow such pro-
cedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Bor-
rower and shall, except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
be made only after and to the extent the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice have been or will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have determined at any time that:
(a)  any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made
for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association and,
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, prior to any further


﻿- 32 -
deposit into the Special Account by the Association, deposit into
the Special Account or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified; or
(b)  any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
and unless otherwise agreed by the Association, refund to the
Association such amount then outstanding in the Special Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 3.
FOR SECRETARY


