Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3568-1-AM 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for Irrigation Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated September 19, 2007 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated September 19, 2007, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
ARMENIA (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to 
the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Recipient and 
the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
three million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,300,000) 
(variously, “Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Page  4
2
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is United States Dollars. 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through the PIU in accordance with 
the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the Procedures for 
Implementation for the Rehabilitation Program and the provisions of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance and Economy. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
1
Melik-Adamyan Street 
Republic Square 
Yerevan 375010 
Republic of Armenia  
 
Telex:  
 
 
243331
LADA SU 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
Page  5
3
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
AGREED at Yerevan, Republic of Armenia, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
 
By /s/ Vardan Khachatryan 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Aristomene Varoudakis 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
4
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to contribute to improvements in the standard of 
living in rural Armenia through enhanced profitability and sustainability of irrigated 
agriculture. 
The Project consists of the Original Project and the following additional part: 
Part E
:
Provision of works and c
onsultants’ services for the rehabilitation of 
tertiary canals and training and technical assistance for the WUAs, including their annual 
audit. 
Page  7
5
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1.  
The Recipient shall maintain the PIU until completion of the Project, with staff, 
resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and assign to it 
responsibility for overall management of Project implementation and coordination, 
including: 
 
(a)  
preparation of disbursement applications under the Credit; 
 
(b)  
management of the Designated Account;  
 
(c) 
maintenance of records and accounts related to the Project and arranging 
for the audit thereof; 
 
(d) 
preparation of bidding documents and participation in administration of 
bidding procedures and of contracts under the Project;  
 
(e) 
preparation of quarterly progress reports and submission thereof to the 
Recipient and the Association in accordance with Section II.A. of this Schedule, the first 
such report to be furnished to the Association not later than December 31, 2007; and 
 
(f) 
management and supervision of all Project activities. 
2. 
The Recipient shall maintain the Project Management Board until completion of 
the Project with composition and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association. 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. Safeguards
 
The Recipient shall ensure that all measures necessary for the carrying out of the 
EMP shall be taken in a timely manner and shall include adequate information on 
Page  8
6
the carrying out of such measures in the Project Reports referred to in Section 
II.A. of this Schedule. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than one month after the end of the period 
covered by such report.  
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the 
end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient, 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under the Project 
Preparation Advance was made.  The audited Financial Statements for each such 
period shall be furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
end of such period.
 
4. 
The Recipient shall cause the WUAs to prepare their Financial Statements to 
reflect their operations and financial condition and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures of the WUAs related to the Project.  The 
Recipient shall have the Financial Statements of the WUAs audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements of the WUAs shall cover the period of one 
fiscal year of the Recipient, commencing with the fiscal year in which the first 
withdrawal under the Project Preparation Advance was made.  The audited 
Financial Statements of the WUAs for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Page  9
7
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1.
 Works.
 
All works required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth 
or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions 
of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Works 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Works.  
The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional 
provisions: 
(i) 
entities in which the Recipient owns a majority shareholding 
shall not be invited to participate in tenders for the Government 
unless they are and can be shown to be legally and financially 
autonomous and operate under commercial law; 
(ii) 
pre-qualification shall be conducted for large works projects; 
 (iii) 
pre- and post-qualification criteria shall only pertain to past 
contract performance, financial, managerial and technical 
capabilities of bidders; 
(
iv)
j
oint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for 
Page  10
8
their obligations; 
 (v) 
estimated contract prices shall not be advertised; 
(vi) 
no bids shall be rejected at bid opening; 
(vii) 
no bids shall be rejected solely because they exceed the 
estimated price.  Bids can be cancelled and new bids invited, 
only if the conditions of clause 2.61 of the Procurement 
Guidelines are met; 
(viii) 
all bid evaluation criteria shall be quantifiable in monetary 
terms or expressed as a pass/fail criteria; and 
 
(ix) 
advance Association approval is required for any modifications 
in the contract scope/conditions during implementation. 
(b)  Shopping 
 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  Least Cost Selection 
(b)  Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c)  Single-source Selection 
(d)  Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines 
for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(e)  Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
Page  11
9
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category 
Amount of the 
Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of Expenditures  
to be Financed 
(Inclusive of Taxes) 
(1)  Works 
  
2,530,000 
85% 
(2)  Consultants’ Services 
 
and Training 
 
100,000 100% 
(3)  Refund of Project  
 
Preparation Advance 
 
670,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07 of the General 
Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
3,300,000
Page  12
10
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2009. 
Page  13
11
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the 
Credit repayable 
(expressed as a 
percentage)* 
 
On each January 15 and July 15, commencing January 
15, 2018 to and including July 15, 2027: 
 
5% 
_______________________ 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to 
be repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) 
of the General Conditions. 
Page  14
12
APPENDIX 
 Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
4. 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan, dated April 20, 2007, 
satisfactory to the Association, describing the environmental mitigation, 
monitoring and institutional measures for the Project. 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
6. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development credit agreement for the 
Irrigation Development Project between the Recipient and the Association, dated 
September 6, 2001 as amended to the date of this Agreement (Credit No. 3569 
AM). 
7. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
8. 
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit established by the Recipient by 
Decree No. 577, dated December 15, 1994, or any successor thereto, for purposes 
of Project management. 
9. 
“Procedures for Implementation for the Rehabilitation Program” means the 
procedures for carrying out rehabilitation works of tertiary canals under WUAs’ 
management, prepared by the State Committee for Water Management and 
agreed with the Association on May 3, 2007, as the same may be amended from 
time to time with the agreement of the Association. 
10. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
Page  15
13
11. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated June 25, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
12. 
“Project Management Board” means the Project Management Board established 
by the Recipient by Decree No. 765, dated December 22, 1999, to provide policy 
guidance and oversight of Project implementation. 
13. 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 of 
the General Conditions, granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to 
the letter agreement signed by the Association and the Recipient on March 9, 
2007. 
14. 
“Training” means training for the staff of the WUAs. 
15. 
“WUAs” means the Water User Associations, autonomous groups of water users 
with responsibility for operation and maintenance of secondary and tertiary 
irrigation infrastructure.
 
