Report No. PID7250
Project Name                     Armenia-Irrigation Development Project (@)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Irrigation & Drainage
Project ID                       AMPE55022
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF ARMENIA
Implementing Agency
Address
State Committee for Water Management
Address: Vardanants 13a, 375010, Yerevan,
Armenia
Contact Person: Mr. Adibek Ghazarian
Tel: 3741 545-196
Fax: 3741 151-829
Email: idp@dolphin.am
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                May 14, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         April 25, 2001
Projected Board Date             July 2, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Agriculture remains a dominant sector in the economy of Armenia. It
provides varying levels of productive employment to about half of the
households. It contributes about 309 of the GDP. More importantly, it
continues to provide opportunities for subsistence to a large number of
people displaced as a result of the drastic decline in the industrial
sector following independence, and of the continuing trade embargo.
Agriculture is also heavily dependent on irrigation, more so than eve in
recent years of recurrent drought. While Government has taken swift action
to privatize and liberalize most aspects of the agricultural economy,
irrigation related issues remain prominent among the primary issues facing
the sector, and among those that proved to be most difficult to address
under the current circumstances. These issues include: (i) the high cost
of water delivery resulting from heavy reliance on energy intensive
pumping; (ii) the lack of a functional mechanism for effective funding and
timely execution of O&M activities; and (iii) the high rate of water
losses due to the deterioration of the water conveyance infrastructure. To
address these issues, the Government has embarked on an ambitious program
to rehabilitate the country's irrigation system and to give users a stake
in its management through Water Users Consumer Cooperatives (WUCCs). While
significant progress has been made in addressing the issue of
infrastructure deterioration, the picture is not as clear in relation to
the other two issues. Although Government has developed a program for
pump-to-gravity conversion, where such conversion is feasible and
economic, no decision has been made on how to deal with the issue of high
cost of water delivery in schemes where such conversion is not feasible or
is not economic. Though over 150 WUCCs have been developed unde the IRP
and NWASP, only about one quarter of irrigated areas are served by
well-functioning WUCCs. Thus, the Government is also yet to put in place



a reliable mechanism for funding O&M activities, and to create the full
set of enabling conditions for effective participatory irrigation
management.
2. Objectives
This project is part of an on-going national program supporting the
rehabilitation and restructuring of the irrigation system. Implementation
of this program was initiated under the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
(IRP) with financial support from IDA and IFAD and further supported by
the IFAD-financed North West Agricultural Services Project (NWASP). This
project is designed to build on the achievements to-date under the
preceding interventions. It aims to enhance the profitability and
sustainability of irrigated agriculture through improved efficiency and
reliability of the irrigation water supply system by: (i) completing the
restoration of the state of the irrigation and drainage physical
infrastructure to one under which water losses in the primary and
secondary canals would be minimized; (ii) lowering the overall cost of
operating the irrigation system through decreased reliance on electric
energy; and (iii) improving the management of the system through a clear
allocation of responsibility and accountability among primary
stakeholders, along with an improved institutional capability and a
reliable funding mechanism that would prevent future deterioration of the
water conveyance infrastructure.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Bank support is useful in identifying and in helping to introduce best
practices from international experience in areas, which are critical for
achieving the project development objective. These include: (i) the
restructuring of public institutions, (ii) the development of water users
associations and the creation of conditions for increasing beneficiaries'
interest and participation in the project, (iii) the introduction of
participatory irrigation management, and (iv) the development of cost
recovery mechanisms.
4. Description
The project will constitute a five-year program for completing the task
(initiated under the IRP) of establishing the basis for sustainable
irrigation and drainage, and for creating institutional structures,
capabilities and procedures for participatory management of the system.
The project is organized in four components. The first component focuses
on reducing water losses in the conveyance system. The second component
focuses on reducing the energy intensity, and thus the cost, of the water
delivery system. The third component addresses the institutional
strengthening requirements for effective participatory management and long
term sustainability of the irrigation and drainage system. Finally, the
fourth component provides for project management during the five-year
implementation period. Given the limited IDA resources available for this
project, discrete parts of the first and the third components were defined
for co-financing by IFAD under a separate project, and under a parallel
financing arrangement by the Lincy Foundation (to cover the total cost of
the drainage component). The beneficiaries will contribute 25t of the cost
of rehabilitation of tertiary canals. All funds, regardless of source,
will be managed by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) under the State
Committee for Water Management (SCWM). The table below provides a summary
of the total costs of the program, excluding the IFAD input, which is in
- 2-



the order of US$ 7 million.
Rehabilitation of Critical Irrigation Infrastructure - US$m 4.5
Conversion of 3 Schemes from Pump to Gravity Irrigation - US$m 15.0
Institutional Development and Tertiary Canal Rehabilitation - $10.0
Project Management - US$m 1.5
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost                        31.0
IDA Credit                                24.0
Government of Armenia                     5.0
Beneficiaries                             2.0
6. Implementation
Project implementation is anticipated to take five years (December 15,
2001 to December 31, 2006). On that basis, the credit closing date is
expected to be March 31, 2007. Project management will be the
responsibility of the existing Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in charge
of the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (expected to be completed in June
2001) and the Dam Safety Project, which became effective in April, 2000.
The PIU will operate under the oversight of the Project Management Board
(PMB) chaired by Chairman SCWM. The PIU will coordinate all project
activities. It will be responsible for all design, procurement,
supervision, and financial control related matters. The PIU activities
will be based on detailed annual work plans and associated budgets to be
agreed with IDA at the onset of each project year. While PIU will be
responsible for contracting out all project-funded rehabilitation
activities during the project period, WSA and the DIMA Enterprises will
assume responsibility for contracting out non-project financed maintenance
activities during the project period. They will also take over full
responsibility for system-wide O&M at the end of the project period. To
help enable WSA and the DIMA Enterprises to assume those responsibilities,
PIU will provide them the necessary technical assistance to help develop
within those agencies a capability in work planning, budgeting,
procurement, contract supervision, and financial control.Accounting,
Financial Reporting, and Auditing Arrangements:The Finance Division of PIU
was reviewed by an IDA-accredited Financial Management Specialist (FMS) in
May 2001, who concluded that the PIU has adequate and competent staff, a
satisfactory accounting system supported by a functional operational
manual, and that the internal control procedures in place are
satisfactory. The IDA team reviewed with the PIU financial staff IDA's
procedures for disbursement against the quarterly Project Monitoring
Reports (PMRs) as required under the LACI Handbook and the Project
Financial Management Manual of February, 1999. The PIU agreed to follow
those procedures and generate the PMRs in the format and with the content
as required by IDA. The PIU will maintain an adequate financial
management system, including accounting, financial reporting, and auditing
arrangements which will ensure that accurate and timely information is
readily available on project resources and expenditures. The project
accounts managed by the PIU will identify all sources and uses of funds in
carrying out the project, including detailed accounting of the use of the
proceeds of the credit and the operation of the Special Account. The
-3 -



project accounts will be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to
IDA. The audit report will be submitted to the Ministry of Agriculture and
to the IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year. The audit
reports will contain a separate opinion on the operation of the Special
Account and the procedures for the use of Statements of Expenditures, as
well as a management letter. The cost of audit services will be financed
under the operating cost category.Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements
and Reporting:The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in the PIU will be
responsible for monitoring project inputs, outputs, and impact. This unit
will prepare semi-annual progress reports for submission to Government and
IDA. The reports will include information, analysis, and recommendations
on progress in the execution of various elements of the agreed annual work
program. This will include: (i) procurement, (ii) expenditures, (iii)
difficulties encountered in the course of project implementation, along
with the solutions proposed by project management and the associated
required inputs, (iv) updated project cost estimates, procurement plan,
and implementation schedule, and (v) updated estimates of performance
indicators. An annual work plan and the associated budget will be prepared
and agreed with IDA at the beginning of each project year. A project
implementation completion report will be prepared within six months of
project completion.
7. Sustainability
Adequate and regular maintenance of the whole irrigation system is
critical to the sustainability of project benefits. As the project
provides only for the rehabilitation of the most critically deteriorated
sections, any delay in the maintenance of the remaining sections will
cause them to deteriorate further, thus undermining the utility of those
already rehabilitated. Effective maintenance will require institutions
with technical and managerial capabilities, along with adequate financial
resources. The project provides for restructuring and strengthening the
irrigation and drainage institutions responsible for the O&M process from
the source of water down to farmers' fields. The project also supports the
adoption of arrangements to give those institutions the requisite
financial resources to assume their respective responsibilities, and for
the whole O&M system to become financially self sustaining by the time
full O&M cost recovery is achieved by 2006. Assurances will be sought from
Government that budgetary allocations will be made to bridge the financing
gap in WSA's and DIMA's budget as a result of the O&M subsidies mandated
under the current policy of partial cost recovery. This financial gap is
currently estimated at US$ 10 million for 2001, US$ 8 million for 2002,
US$ 6 million for 2003, US$ 4 million for 2004, US$ 2 million for 2005,
and US$ 1 million for 2006. These estimates would need
verification/updating on the basis of a survey of the irrigation and
drainage system. To ensure accountability for the state of the irrigation
and drainage infrastructure, each of the 12 scheme-level DIMA Enterprises
will have an autonomous budget determined on the basis of a work plan
agreed by DIMA's Board. The sustainability of project benefits will also
depend on effective participation by WUCCs in the management of the
irrigation and drainage system. To that end, the project supports the
creation of conditions that would enable WUCCs to become effective
partners with WSA and DIMA in the management of the irrigation system.
Project support is designed to complement that provided by IFAD under
on-going projects and under a new Agricultural Services Project, recently
signed by the with Government. In particular, all future tertiary
- 4 -



rehabilitation will be initiated only following a proposal submitted by
each concerned WUCC for approval by PIU. This will promote sustainability
and will help WUCCs adapt the system to one which they can afford to
rehabilitate in the present and maintain in the long run.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The main lesson learned from the Bank supported irrigation program in
Armenia and in the other FSU countries relates to the importance that must
be given to institutional development as a prerequisite for achieving
efficiency and sustainability in the development and management of
irrigation and drainage systems. On the one side, weak public sector
agencies with overlapping allocation of responsibilities, limited
authority, and inadequate resources to work with, have failed in
effectively managing the irrigation system and in preventing its continued
deterioration. On the other side, water users with no capability and legal
authority to influence the actions of public agencies, have resigned
themselves to accepting whatever public agencies manage to deliver, in an
atmosphere of mistrust and guarded cooperation. Experience in many
countries has demonstrated that, under improved institutional
circumstances, the Participatory Irrigation Management (PIM) approach can
enhance the efficiency and sustainability of irrigation systems.
Experience has also demonstrated that in order to benefit from this
approach, resolute action would need to be taken on four fronts. First,
responsibility for O&M needs to be clearly allocated between the
Government and water users. Second, public agencies would need to be held
accountable for assuming that part of the responsibility allocated to
Government and should be given the resources and the authority to credibly
assume that responsibility. In addition, the role of such agencies should
be primarily managerial in nature, with any construction activities
contracted out to the private sector. Third, to enable water users to
become effective partners in PIM, a legal framework would need to be in
place which would support and protect the right of water users to organize
into independent WUCCs, accountable to their members, and with full
authority to act on behalf of their members vis-a-vis the Government and
the law. Fourth, both the Government agencies and WUCCs would need to
participate in an intensive skill development program to acquire the
technical and management skills that would allow them to work as partners
in the management of the irrigation system.The piloting of the development
of WUCCs in the context of the IRP and the Northwest Agricultural Services
project has demonstrated the potential for water users to successfully
operate and maintain the tertiary level of the irrigation system. Success
in that regard, however, depended on a high and sustained level of
institutional support aimed at both confidence building and skill
development among water users. This experience points to the need for
steady institutional support, not only to new WUCCs, but also to those,
which already benefited from support under earlier projects. Experience
has also demonstrated the difficulties the project implementing agency
faces in getting WUCCs to abide by their commitments to contribute to the
rehabilitation of the tertiary level of the irrigation system. This was
partly the result of the limited direct involvement of WUCCs in managing
the rehabilitation process, including the design and contracting. To
remedy this situation and motivate WUCCs to pursue cost effective
solutions, the project will support shifting the full responsibility for
tertiary systems rehabilitation to WUCCs. To that end, qualifying WUCCs
will be given grants and technical assistance to help them organize and
- 5 -



manage the rehabilitation of their tertiary systems, on the basis of a
work plan and a budget agreed with the Project Implementation Unit.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  An environmental assessment was undertaken at the
onset of the project preparation process. The assessment concluded that
the project will comply with all Bank Safeguard Policies, provided that
the mitigation measures will be implemented in conformity with the
Environmental Management Plan (EMP). Given the rehabilitation nature of
project interventions, no significant negative environmental impacts are
expected from the project. As the nature of most works under the project
is primarily of the delayed maintenance type, the main foreseeable
environmental issues faced by the project are the ones associated with the
management and disposal of excavated materials and construction debris.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Giuseppe Fantozzi
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473 3789
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending May 18, 2001.
- 6 -



