Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22599-AM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 19.8 MILLION (US $24.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
FOR AN
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
August 7, 2001
Environmentally and SociaRy Sustainable Development Sector Unit
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of May 25, 2001)
Currency Unit = Dram
550 dram = US$1
US$0.00182 = 1 Dram
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DIMAs         Drainage and Irrigation Management Agencies
DME           Dam Maintenance Enterprise (Jrambar)
DSP           Dam Safety Project
FAO CP       Food and Agriculture Organization Cooperative Program
IFAD         Intemational Fund for Agricultural Development
IRP           Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
IWG           Irrigation Working Group
O&M           Operation and Maintenance
OME           Operation and Maintenance Enterprise for the Irrigation Sector (Vorogum)
MOA           Ministry of Agriculture
NWASP        North West Agricultural Services Project
PIM           Participatory Irrigation Management
PMB          Project Management Board
PMRs          Project Management Reports
SCWM          State Committee for Water Management
TCC           Technical Consultative Commission on O&M
WSA           Water Supply Agency
WUCCs        Water User Consumer Cooperatives
WUFs         Water User Federations
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Director:   Judy O'Connor
Sector Director:   Kevin Cleaver
Task Team Leader:   Mark Lundell



ARMENIA
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        6
3. Benefits and target population                                                      9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                           11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                 12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         14
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           14
2. Financial                                                                          15
3. Technical                                                                           16
4. Institutional                                                                       16
5. Environmental                                                                       17
6. Social                                                                              19
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 20
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     21
2. Critical risks                                                                     22
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     22



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           22
2. Other(Conditions of Disbursement and hnplementation Arrangements)                  22
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         24
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        24
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         25
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   29
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        40
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                  41
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              48
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      49
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    59
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  60
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 61
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           63
MAP(S)



ARMENIA
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSSD
Date: August 7, 2001                              Team Leader: Mark R. Lundell
Country Director: Judy M. O'Connor                Sector Director: Kevin M. Cleaver
Project ID: P055022                               Sector(s): Al - Irrigation & Drainage
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Rural Development
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[ I Loan    [X] Credit    [ ] Grant    [ ] Guarantee     [ ] Other:
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 24.86
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%                             Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                            Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       3.89           0.00           3.89
IDA                                                           10.27           14.59        24.86
FOREIGN PRIVATE COMMERCIAL SOURCES                             2.07           0.00           2.07
(UNIDENTIFIED)
Total:                                                        16.23           14.59         30.82
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF ARMENIA
Responsible agency:
State Comrnittee for Water Management
Address: Vardanants 13a, 375010, Yerevan, Armenia
Contact Person: Mr. Adibek Ghazarian
Tel: 3741 545-196           Fax: 3741 151-829            Email: idp@dolphin.am
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$m):
FY         2002       2003       2004      2005       2006       2007
Annual    2.49        4.87       6.42       5.64      4.08       1.36
Cumulative    2.49       7.36      13.78      19.42      23.50     24.86
Project implementation period: 2001-2007
Expected effectiveness date: 12/15/2001  Expected closing date:  03/31/2007
OCS PAD  Prn , R Mad, 2(03



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The proposed project will contribute to enhancing the profitability and sustainability of irrigated
agriculture. It will provide the basis for stabilizing irrigated agriculture as a predominant source of
productive employment, thus helping to prevent economically and socially unjustified rural/urban
migration. This objective will be achieved primarily through a set of institutional reforms and incentives
tailored to motivate water users to participate in the management of the irrigation system, and to facilitate
the establishment of stakeholder-based incentives for improved Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of the
irrigation infrastructure.
This project is part of a long-term national program conceived in the mid-1990s to support the
rehabilitation and restructuring of the irrigation and drainage system. In view of the magnitude of the task
at hand and of the resources required, the Government opted to implement this program in two phases. The
first phase of this long-term program consisted of emergency interventions to secure continuity of system
operation, along with pilot/demonstration activities to develop a practical methodology for improving
system management. Implementation of this phase was initiated under the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
(IRP), with financial support from IDA and IFAD. This was followed by the IFAD-supported North West
Agricultural Services Project (NWASP) and the IDA-supported Dam Safety Project (DSP), which is
expected to conclude the emergency intervention phase. The second phase of the long-term program is
expected to be the restructuring and development phase. It will focus on building a solid basis for system
sustainability through physical upgrading of the infrastructure and empowerment of stakeholders to prevent
its future deterioration. Again, due to resource constraints, implementation of this development phase will
proceed in two stages:
*   The Irrigation Development Project - Stage I: Implementation of this project is proposed to start in
December 2001. The project will build on the experience gained under the IRP and NWASP pilot
activities to support the introduction of the participatory approach to the management of the
irrigation and drainage system. It will support the formulation of regulations and procedures that
will facilitate the effective adoption of the participatory approach to irrigation system management.
It will provide for the restructuring and strengthening of the institutions responsible for O&M of
the irrigation system. It will enable the continuation of the program initiated under the IRP to lower
the cost of irrigation through conversion of energy intensive pump irrigation into more affordable
gravity irrigation. It will also complete the rehabilitation of critical canal structures left over from
the IRP.
*   The Irrigation Development Project - Stage II: Implementation of this project is planned to start
during the second or third year of Stage I project, depending on the availability of resources. This
project will focus on completion of the upgrading of the irrigation and drainage infrastructure to a
state under which routine O&M will become sufficient to prevent the recurrence of any significant
deterioration in the system in the foreseeable future. This will involve the rehabilitation of the
primary and secondary collector drains in the Ararat Valley and the primary and secondary
irrigation canals in schemes requiring priority intervention. The project will also provide for
completing the program of conversion of eligible schemes from pump to gravity irrigation.
- 2 -



2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-rekated Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document nuriber: 22111-AM          Date of latest CAS discussion: May 22, 2001
The proposed project will contribute to three objectives in the CAS. It will contribute to the
objective of employment creation by preserving existing jobs and creating new ones in irrigated agriculture.
It will contribute to the objective of improving governance by increasing the transparency and
accountability in public agencies, along with active engagement of beneficiaries in the design and
administration of services. It will also contribute to facilitating a dynamic private sector by improving the
regulatory framework and reducing corruption. This project will contribute to those goals by: (i) supporting
institutional restructuring which will open the door for beneficiary active participation in the management
of the irrigation system; (ii) developing a basis for accountability of public agencies participating in the
development and O&M of irrigation and drainage infrastructure; and (iii) helping to introduce critical
prerequisites for long-termn sustainability of irrigated agriculture.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Agriculture remains a dominant sector in the economy of Armenia. It provides varying levels of
productive employment to about half of the households, and contributes about 30% of GDP. In Armenia,
agriculture is strongly dependent on irrigation, since the majority of crop production requires watering.
Therefore, water for irrigation purposes remains the number one water demand in Armenia. However,
Armenian agriculture is undergoing recent changes, including the introduction of new types of crops and
interest in non-irrigated agriculture, together with more drought-resistant strains of traditional crops.
Agricultural users have four sources of water: direct precipitation, stream-flow diversions, reservoir
storage and releases, and groundwater withdrawals. Storage of water in reservoirs is one form of drought
mitigation. When more precipitation is available, however, farmers can rely less on their stored water
supplies, and withdraw less water from streams and aquifers as well. Examples of irrigated agriculture in
Armenia include gapes, apples, wheat, barley, potatoes, and vegetables. Water demands for most irrigated
agriculture begin increasing in late April, peak in early July, and drop off into late October. Approximately
190,000 ha are at present irrigated and roughly 95,000 ha that were previously irrigated have reverted to
dryland due to failure of pumping and conveyance systems (out of a total of roughly 420,000 hectares of
cultivable area in the whole country). Nearly 80% of total crop production is produced in irrigated areas
that are 80% surface irrigated and 20% pipe irrigated. The water is supplied to most of the irrigation
schemes by 14 major conveyance irrigation systems that are highly deteriorated. This irrigation delivery
system is now inadequate to the new post-socialist reality. Those on-farm systems were designed to service
large farms which may have irrigated 50 to 400 ha from a single headgate or canal outlet. Presently, the
same outlet may service 300 or more farmers, given that the average size of an irrigated farm is currently
1.38 ha.
While Government has taken swift action to privatize and liberalize most aspects of the
agricultural economy, irrigation related issues remain prominent among the primary issues facing the
sector, and among those that proved to be most difficult to address under the current circumstances. Three
issues, in particular, require urgent attention. First, the high cost of water delivery resulting from heavy
reliance on energy intensive pumping led to high subsidies and put into question the profitability of irrigated
agriculture. Second, the lack of an effective cost recovery policy and of an operational mechanism for
adequate funding and timely execution of O&M activities led to continuous deterioration of the
-3-



infrastructure. Third, the lack of clarity in the allocation of responsibilities and in the guidelines for
accountability prevented water users from sufficient participation in the management of the irrigation
system and resulted in wasteful irrigation practices and a high rate of water losses at all levels of the water
conveyance infrastructure.
To address these issues, the Government has embarked on an ambitious program to rehabilitate the
country's irrigation system and to give users a stake in its management. While significant progress has
been made in implementing emergency interventions aimed at keeping the system operational and slowing
the rate of its deterioration, progress to-date on the other two issues has not been sufficient. Although
Government has developed a program for pump-to-gravity conversion, where such conversion is feasible
and economic, its implementation is in an early stage. Only this year is the Government moving to
substantially improve the mechanism for funding O&M activities, and to create the full set of enabling
conditions for effective participatory irrigation management.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Building on progress to-date under the IRP and the NWASP, the project will support actions aimed
at addressing all three irrigation-related issues outlined above. To facilitate the adoption of the participatory
approach to irrigation management, the project will support the effective empowerment of water users
through the development of Water Users Federations (WUFs) to take over responsibility for O&M of the
totality of the irrigation system serving them. This concept derives from the experience to-date with Water
Users Consumers Cooperatives (WUCCs), which has demonstrated the need for a larger number of users to
associate in order to acquire the requisite financial means and employ sufficient management capability. In
support of the same objective, the project will also provide for the restructuring and strengthening of the
O&M agencies into a main agency dealing with caption of water, the Water Supply Agency (WSA) and
fourteen slim, regionally based Drainage and Irrigation Management Agencies (DIMA Enterprises). The
project will seek to reduce the cost of water delivery by financing the conversion of 3 priority schemes from
pump to gravity irrigation, thus saving about 48 million kwh per year, equivalent to about 16% of the
energy currently used in Armenia for pumping water for irrigation purposes. The project will also
complete the task initiated under the IRP of rehabilitating critical canal structures to ensure continuity of
operation of the irrigation system as a whole.
Project design was based on a detailed assessment of the rehabilitation requirements for the
country-wide irrigation and drainage system. These requirements were prioritized within each scheme and
across the 14 major schemes on both technical and economic grounds, with separate economic rates of
return calculated for each proposed project intervention. On the basis of placing institutional restructuring
of the system as the first priority, the Government made the strategic decision to: (i) defer rehabilitation of
main and secondary canals not rehabilitated under the IRP and the drainage system to a later project (IDP
Stage Il); (ii) maximize the impact on maintaining rural employment by giving second priority to the
conversion component, as it creates sustainable water supply conditions; and (iii) limit conversion activities
to the three conversion schemes (of the eight with an ERR greater than 20%) which have the lowest costs of
rehabilitation per hectare served, and which also have the lowest cost per reduction of electricity usage.
This program represents the most cost-effective alternative solution to provide a reasonable basis for
system sustainability under conditions of severe resource scarcity. On that basis the Government decided
to retain for a first stage project a package costing about US $31 million and to seek resources over time to
support a second phase, as summarized below.
- 4 -



Phasing of Investment Activities
Project Component                                  IDP - Stage I      IDP - Stage II
(US$ million)     (US$ million)
Conversion Schemes                                     13.9                7.0
Canal Structures & Emergency Interventions               4.3                1.9
Canal Sections' Rehabilitation                                              11.0
Drainage                                                                    10.0
Institutional Development                                9.7                4.3
Project Management, Design, and Construction Supervision  1.8               1.0
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)                       1.1
TOTAL:                                                 30.8               35.2
The activities funded under the PPF for the Project are as follows:
(a)    provision of basic equipment and incremental operating costs to the newly established agencies for
operation and maintenance of the irrigation system, the Water Supply Agency (WSA) and the Drainage and
Irrigation Management Agencies (DIMAs) in order to allow an effective start of their activities;
(b)    carrying out the investigation of the legal framework regulating relationships of organizations
involved in the water sector, as well as the inventory of fixed assets of the organizations, and inventory and
re-estimation of accounts receivable and accounts payable of the organizations.
(c)    design works of two objects (Yegegnadzor conversion scheme and the Araks intake) that are
foreseen to be rehabilitated in the course of the first two years of the project; and,
(d)    provision of support to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), established under the State
Committee for Water Management for carrying out the remaining project preparation activities.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project consists of a five-year program aimed at creating institutional structures, capabilities
and procedures for participatory management of the irrigation and drainage system. It will complete the
tasks (initiated under the IRP) of rehabilitating the critical canal structures to keep the irrigation system
operational. It will also continue the conversion of priority schemes from pump to gravity irrigation to save
energy and make irrigation more affordable. The project is organized in four components. The first
component focuses on keeping the conveyance system operational. The second component focuses on
reducing the energy intensity, and thus the cost, of the water delivery system. The third component
addresses the institutional strengthening requirements for effective participatory irrigation management and
long-term sustainability of the irrigation and drainage system. Finally, the fourth component provides for
project management during the five-year implementation period. The beneficiaries, through WUFs, will
contribute an average of 36% of the cost of civil works for rehabilitation of canals and 20% of the cost of
equipment. Government will contribute, on average, 16% of project costs. The table below provides a
summary of project costs.  Resources allocated to this project will be managed by the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) under the State Committee for Water Management (SCWM).
- 5 -



Component                   Setor          Cot       % f       financingr    Bai-
Rehabilitation of Critical Canal    Irrigation &         4.33      14.0       3.73       15.0
Structures                          Drainage
Conversion of 3 Schemes from Pump to  Irrigation &      13.90      45.1      11.99       48.2
Gravity Irrigation                  Drainage
Institutional Development           Institutional        9.65      31.3       6.85       27.6
Water User Federations -    7.25    Development
Public Sector O&M Agencies- 2.40
Project Management and Design and                        1.77       5.7       1.15        4.6
Supervision of Tertiary Rehabilitation
Activities under PPF                                     1.17       3.8       1.14        4.6
Total Project Costs                   30.82      100.0     24.86      100.0
Front-end fee                     0.00        0.0      0.00        0.0
Total Financing Required                     30.82      100.0     24.86      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project supports the reform and strengthening of the institutional set-up responsible for
management of the irrigation system on the basis of participatory irrigation management principles. The
rationale of the proposed reform is to give users substantial responsibility, progressively commercialize the
sector, establish user-based incentives for improved O&M, improve the performance of irrigated
agriculture and the viability of service and users institutions on an institutionally and financially sustainable
basis. A primary weakness, at present, is the absence of a legal framework to support the introduction of a
decentralized and fully participatory irrigation system management and to provide incentives to reduce
water losses. Armenia has neither a water law nor an altemative constitutional mechanism that could
provide the legal underpinning for the establishment of independent and self-managed WUFs, and for the
sustainable transfer to them of responsibility and accountability for O&M services.
Under the IRP and the NWASP, the Government experimented with the establishment of WUCCs,
as the medium for encouraging water users' participation in the management of the irrigation system.
Three basic lessons came out of those experiments. First, WUCCs established at the tertiary, or village
level, have proven to have a limited basis for developing financial and managerial autonomy. Second, in
the absence of enforceable regulations that define their rights and obligations and those of the public
agencies involved, water users remained reluctant to take over any responsibility for system management.
Third, in the absence of a clear allocation of responsibilities among all stakeholders, along with clear rules
and procedures for conflict resolution, there was no basis for developing a partnership between public and
private agencies. These lessons are reflected in the institutional reforms proposed under this project.
Given the nature of water as a public good and its strategic and vital role in Armenian agriculture
and the economy at large, the Govemment proposes to maintain full responsibility for captation (excluding
small local schemes and tube-wells), storage and distribution of water into the primary canals. This means
that the public sector will continue to assume full responsibility for the O&M of dams, reservoirs, primary
intakes, large pumping stations catching water from primary sources, and outlets into the primary canals.
Responsibility for management of water resources in rural areas was recently taken out of the Ministry of
Agriculture and given to a newly established State Committee for Water Management (SCWM) headed by
- 6 -



a Chairman with ministerial rank. This change was apparently motivated by Government's desire to
strengthen the O&M function and shift its cost to water users. In conforrnity with that objective,
responsibility for O&M below the primary outlets will be progressively shifted over to water users through
independent, self-managed and self-financed WUFs. The responsibility of the public sector will be
redefined and reallocated by restructuring the five agencies currently responsible for O&M of irrigation and
drainage infrastructure, into two sets of agencies. The Water Supply Agency (WSA) will take over
responsibility for system O&M down to the primary water supply outlets. This agency will perform: (i)
tasks previously allocated to the Dam Maintenance Enterprise, Djrar, and the Arpa/Sevan Tunnel Agency;
and (ii) the O&M of the river intakes and the larger pumping stations previously allocated to the Operation
and Maintenance Enterprise (OME). The Drainage and Irrigation Management Agencies (DIMAs) will
take over responsibility for all tasks previously assigned to the Drainage Enterprise, as well as the
operation and maintenance of the primary and secondary canals of the irrigation system (and their
associated smaller pumping stations) previously assigned to OME at the scheme level. The DIMA
Enterprises should be viewed as temporary agencies, managing tasks to be taken over progressively by
WUFs, which will ultimately deal directly with WSA. Both WSA and the DIMA Enterprises will focus on
the operation of their respective parts of the system and on managing the maintenance process, leaving the
actual execution of most maintenance tasks to private contractors.
WSA will operate and manage the maintenance of the water supply system down to the outlets on
primary canals. On the basis of an annual assessment of water availability for irrigation, WSA will sign
water supply contracts with each DIMA Enterprise or scheme-based WUF. This contract will specify the
quantity and schedule of water delivery, as well as the payment schedule for water to be delivered.
DIMA Enterprises' primary functions will be to: (i) buy water wholesale from WSA and sell it
retail to sub-scheme WUFs or WUCCs; and (ii) manage the maintenance of the primary and secondary
irrigation canals and collector drains which have not been transferred to WIUFs. DIMA Enterprises will
enter into contracts with sub-scheme WUFs or WUCCs for the supply of specified quantities of water
according to an agreed timetable, in exchange for payment in conformity with an agreed schedule. The
DIMA Enterprises will be slim organizations with a regular staff, not exceeding 10 full-time members plus
seasonal watermasters. A DIMA Enterprise will cease to exist and its functions will be transferred to a
scheme-based WUF once 51% of land owners, directly or through their WUCCs, agree to establish that
WIUF. The Government foresees that, with the expected timely initiation of the IDP-Stage II, such transfer
will be completed in all 14 schemes by 2008, thus eliminating the need for DIMA Enterprises.
WUFs will ultimately be scheme-based. They will progressively take over from DIMA Enterprises
the responsibility for O&M of the irrigation and drainage infrastructure from the outlets on the primary
canals down to the farm level. The project will support the establishment of 8 to 10 such WUFs, each
covering about 4,000 ha. The target will be to make these WUFs scheme-based. The process will,
however, incorporate enough flexibility to allow farmers to progress in stages, in conformity with the
financial means and management capability available to them. As an intermediate step, farmers will, thus,
be encouraged to form WUFs on a sub-scheme basis by federating established and operational WUCCs.
Given the novel nature of WUFs, the project will provide for intensive training of elected representatives in
such fields as accounting, administration, meeting management, self-govemance, planning and
implementation of O&M activities, procurement of services and contract negotiation. The objective will be
to make these early WUFs models and training ground for subsequent ones.
To promote accountability and greater participation by stakeholders in the management of the
system as a whole, an Irrigation Working Group (IWG) will be established by order of the Chairman of the
State Committee for Water Management by March 31, 2002 (SCWM). It will include representatives from
- 7 -



WSA, DIMA Enterprises, and sub-scheme and scheme level WIUFs. The role of the IWG will be
consultative. It will provide the main stakeholders at the field level a forum for exchanging views and
resolving potential conflicts. To that end, the IWG will meet three times a year. The first meeting will be
arranged by WSA before the start of the irrigation season. It will be used to inform the DIMA Enterprises,
WUFs and WUCCs about expected water availability for the coming season, the fee to be charged to cover
expected O&M costs, and any potential issues that may impact on the timeliness of water delivery. The
second meeting will be arranged, mid-way in the irrigation season, by the DIMA Enterprises and
scheme-level WUFs to assess progress in water delivery and address any issues which may have developed.
The third meeting will be arranged by the sub-scheme WUFs and WUCCs to provide feedback on the
perfornance of the system, and consider any changes needed to improve system management during the
next season.
Success of this arrangement will depend heavily on the timely phase-in of a reliable cost recovery
mechanism to allow both WSA and the DIMA Enterprises/WUFs to achieve financial independence from
the Government's normal budgetary process. To that end, the project supports the implementation of
Government policy to achieve full recovery of O&M costs no later than in 2007. Procedures and
operational mechanisms will be developed to ensure clear allocation of responsibility and accountability
between WUFs, DIMA Enterprises, and WSA. In particular, the task of collection of water charges will be
performed independently by WUFs and WUCCs on the basis of binding annual water delivery contracts
negotiated with the DIMA Enterprises or WSA at the onset of each irrigation season. The retail water fee,
to be paid by users, will be established by Government every year based on an assessment of system-wide
O&M requirements (including drainage), as assessed by an independent Technical Consultative
Commission on O&M of the Irrigation and Drainage System (TCC). Such a commission has already been
created for dams under the DSP. Its mandate will be extended to cover the whole irrigation system. The
recommendations of this commission will be binding and fully reflected in the O&M budgets for WSA and
the DIMA Enterprises. Thus, the average tariff in the irrigation sector will be set annually on the basis of:
(i) the level of O&M costs approved by the TCC; and (ii) the cost recovery targets committed to by the
Government in the "Program for Reforming the Water Management System" (Government Decree 440,
May 17, 2001).
Strictly for purposes of convenience, and pending the establishment of WUFs in all schemes, the
retail water fees paid by WUCCs will be deposited in the account of each DIMA Enterprise at the scheme
level. The DIMA Enterprises, however, will have no decision- making authority over the allocation of
those funds. They will be allocated on a quarterly basis between WSA and the DIMA Enterprises strictly
on the basis of the wholesale/retail sharing rules recommended by the TCC and according to approved
annual work plans and budgets for both WSA and DIMA Enterprises. The total O&M budget is expected
to continue to be subsidized, at a decreasing rate, by Govenmment until the policy of full cost recovery is
implemented in 2007. Meanwhile, the Government will continue to transfer to SCWM the equivalent of the
subsidy to ensure that the operation and maintenance requirements of the irrigation and drainage system are
fully met. Such transfers will cease once full cost recovery becomes the de-facto policy of the Government.
In the case of schemes fully managed by WUFs, the wholesale water fees will be paid by each WUF
directly to WSA.
- 8-



3. Benefits and target population:
The project will increase the security of employment in irrigated agriculture. It will enhance the
profitability and sustainability of irrigated agriculture in the project areas, as a result of increased
availability and reliability of water supply and improved irrigation system management. It will lead to
substantial savings in energy, thus relieving the Government budget of part of the subsidy burden.
The primary project beneficiaries will be about 30,000 private farning households who will be
able to increase the productivity of their irrigated agriculture, directly as a result of project interventions
under components 1 and 3. In addition, the conversion component will enable about 5,000 households,
currently depending on costly and unreliable pump irrigation, to continue to practice irrigated agriculture,
instead of abandoning farming altogether, and either shifting to very low productivity rain-fed farming, or
migrating to urban areas in search of employment.
The project will also directly benefit the institutions involved in the management of the irrigation
system. In the context of participatory irrigation management, WUFs, the newly established DIMA
Enterprises, and WSA will have the opportunity to develop both technical and management capabilities.
They will also acquire a healthy degree of financial autonomy. Finally, the project will contribute to
lowering the burden on the Government budget by enabling WUFs, WSA and the DIMA Enterprises to
cooperate to achieve full recovery of O&M costs from water users by the end of the project period.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project implementation is anticipated to take five years (January 1, 2002 to December 30, 2006).
On that basis, the credit closing date is expected to be March 30, 2007.
Project management will be the responsibility of the existing Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in
charge of the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (expected to be completed in June 2001) and the Dam Safety
Project, which became effective in April, 2000. The PIU will operate under the oversight of the Project
Management Board (PMB) chaired by Chairman SCWM. The PIU will coordinate all project activities. It
will be responsible for all procurement and financial control related matters. It will also directly carry out
limited design and supervision activities. The PIU activities will be based on detailed annual work plans
and associated budgets to be agreed with IDA at the onset of each project year.
While PIU will be responsible for contracting out all project-funded rehabilitation activities during
the project period, WSA and the DIMA Enterprises will assume responsibility for contracting out
non-project financed regular maintenance activities during the project period. They will also take over full
responsibility for system-wide O&M at the end of the project period. To help enable WSA and the DIMA
Enterprises to assume those responsibilities, PIU will provide them the necessary technical assistance to
help develop within those agencies a capability in work planning, budgeting, procurement, contract
supervision, and financial control.
Financial Management:
Financial Management Assessment. The PIU will be responsible for the financial management of
the project as well as the other projects under its implementation (the Dam Safety Project and the Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project).  The financial management arrangements of the PIU satisfy the minimum
requirements of the Bank. More specifically, the accounting staff have significant experience in general
accounting and Bank-specific financial management and disbursement matters, and the PIU's financial
systems, in terms of accounting procedures, accounting software and internal controls, are satisfactory.
-9-



Project Management Reports (PMRs) and Disbursements. Project management-oriented PMRs
will be used for project monitoring and supervision and the indicative formats of these were agreed upon
during project negotiations. However, the PIU does not have in place an adequate financial management
system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the
project (PMRs) as required by the Bank for PMR-based Disbursements. It was agreed during project
negotiations that the project implementing agency would produce PMRs showing the project's sources and
uses of funds by disbursement category (PMR IA), uses of funds by project activity (PMR IB) and the
project's Special Account Statement (PMR IE), as well as the four procurement management reports
(PMRs 3A, 3B, 3C and 3D), beginning from project effectiveness, and use the period to December 31,
2002 to familiarize itself further and refine the process by which it produces all other PMRs. Credit funds
will initially be disbursed on the basis of established procedures, including Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs), and a move to quarterly PMR-based disbursements will be considered once the PIU is familiar
with the project's monitoring aspects and is considered able to produce sufficiently timely and reliable
PMRs.
Audit Arrangements. The PIU's previous and current auditing arrangements and findings are
satisfactory to the Bank and it has been agreed that these audit arrangements will be extended to the IDP, to
include the IDP's project financial statements, SOEs (or PMRs if used as the basis of disbursement) and
Special Account. The audits are conducted by independent private auditors acceptable to the Bank, on
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and procured by the PIU through the Least-Cost Selection
procurement process. The annual audited financial statements will be provided to the Bank within six
months of the end of each year and also at the closing of the project. The contract for the audit will be
extended from year-to-year with the same auditor, subject to satisfactory performance. The cost of the
audit will be financed from the proceeds of the credit.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements and Reporting:
The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in the PIU will be responsible for monitoring project inputs,
outputs, and impact. This unit will prepare semi-annual progress reports for submission to Govemment
and IDA. The reports will provide information, analysis, and recommendations on progress in the
execution of various elements of the agreed annual work program. This will include: (i) procurement; (ii)
expenditures; (iii) difficulties encountered in the course of project implementation, along with the solutions
proposed by project management and the associated required inputs; (iv) updated project cost estimates,
procurement plan, and implementation schedule; and (v) updated estimates of perfornance indicators. An
annual work plan and the associated budget will be prepared and agreed with IDA at the beginning of each
project year. A mid-term report would be prepared after at least two years from project's effectiveness.
This mid-term report will integrate the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed and
will describe in detail the progress achieved in carrying out of the project during the period preceding the
date of such report. A project implementation completion report will be prepared within six months of
project completion.
In a wider sense, the ability to monitor water flows in the system as a whole has been improved
through the placement of over 1,700 water-metering devices at all the major junctures of main, secondary,
and tertiary canals. The data on water flows from these points can be organized
practically on a monthly basis (in principle even more frequently). Once organized, this database will be
placed in a currently worked out system-wide model of virtually the entire irrigation system. This model
will be updated jointly by the PIU and WSA and deployed by WSA in 2002 for improving the operation of
flows in the system and the reduction of operational (mechanical) losses.
- 10 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The option of completely rehabilitating a small nunber of irrigation schemes was considered and
rejected in favor of the rehabilitation of critical structures in all schemes and priority sections of canals in
selected schemes. This was justified on the grounds that, under the current severe scarcity of resources, the
marginal contribution to system efficiency from the rehabilitation of lower priority sections in a given
scheme is greatly surpassed by that which can be achieved from the rehabilitation of higher priority
sections in other schemes. The rejection of the original alternative was based on the results of a detailed
survey of the state of all canals and structures. An order of priority (from I to 7) was attributed to each
canal section to reflect the urgency of its rehabilitation. Simultaneously, an index was developed for
ranking the 13 irrigation scihemes in the country according to their relative importance and the overall state
of their infrastructure.
In view of the limited availability of resources, the Government decided to limit the scope of canal
rehabilitation under IDP-Stage I to the most critical needs. Project interventions on primary and secondary
canals will therefore focus on completion of the program initiated under the IRP aimed at the rehabilitation
of all priority 1 and 2 structures on all primary and secondary canals in the country. Rehabilitation of
priority 3 and 4 sections of canals is deferred for implementation under IDP-Stage II.
The option of rehabilitating pump schemes, which will have to remain dependent partly or wholly
on pumping, was considered and rejected in favor of rehabilitation of pump schemes which can be totally
converted to gravity irrigation. This was justified on the grounds of sustainability and cost effectiveness. In
addition, due to resource limitations, interventions under IDP-Stage I will be limited to the 3 schemes which
have the lowest costs of rehabilitation per hectare irrigated, combined with the lowest costs of reduction per
kW/h. The remaining eligible schemes are deferred for conversion under IDP-Stage II.
The option of rehabilitating all collector drains (open and closed) was considered and rejected in
favor of the rehabilitation of open drains and the replacement of closed drains by open drains. This was
justified on the grounds of lessons from international experience, which demonstrated that, while
rehabilitation of closed drains is technically feasible, its costs may easily exceed those of replacement, and
the sustainability of rehabilitated closed drains cannot be guaranteed. In addition, closed drainage in
Armenia, as installed during the Soviet Union, was intended for management by Government agencies as an
integrated system serving large state farms. This is no longer feasible in an agricultural sector dominated
by small private farms. Thus, the strategy for the future is to convert the closed drains (secondary and
tertiary) to open ones. Given the scarcity of resources, rehabilitation of primary and secondary collector
drains is deferred for implementation under IDP-Stage II. The conversion of tertiary closed drains to open
ones is the responsibility of WUCCs and WUFs, as in the case of tertiary canals. Rehabilitation of both
tertiary drains and tertiary canals in WUFs will be initiated under IDP-Stage I and completed under IDP
Stage II.
- 11 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                       Project                   (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                      Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Deteriorating irrigation infrastructure  Irrigation Rehabilitation Project  S         S
and ineffective water management
Protection of rural inhabitants and  Dam Safety Project                S              S
livelihoods from dam accidents
Lack of medium term credit resources  Enterprise Development Project    S             S
(including for agro-industry)
Weak agricultural support services,    Agriculture Reform Support       S             S
including rural finance             Project
Weak land markets                   Title Registration Project          S             S
Other development agencies
Weak agricultural support services and Northwest Agricultural
formation of WUCCs                  Services Project (IFAD)
Lack of budgetary resources to fund    Food Security Program (EU)
priority programs in agriculture
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The main lesson leamed from the Bank supported program in Armenia and in the other FSU
countries relates to the importance that must be given to institutional development as a prerequisite for
achieving efficiency and sustainability in the development and management of irrigation and drainage
systems. On the one side, weak public sector agencies with overlapping allocation of responsibilities,
limited authority, and inadequate resources to work with, have failed in effectively managing the irrigation
system and in preventing its continued deterioration. On the other side, water users with no capability and
legal authority to influence the actions of public agencies, have resigned themselves to accepting whatever
public agencies manage to deliver, in an atmosphere of mistrust and guarded cooperation. Experience in
many countries has demonstrated that, under improved institutional circumstances, the Participatory
Irrigation Management (PIM) approach can enhance the efficiency and sustainability of irrigation systems.
Experience has also demonstrated that in order to benefit from this approach, resolute action needs to be
taken on four fronts. First, responsibility for O&M needs to be clearly allocated between the Government
and water users. Second, public agencies need to be held accountable for assuming that part of the
responsibility allocated to Government and should be given the resources and the authority to credibly
assume that responsibility. In addition, the role of such agencies should be primarily to manage the O&M
process, with any construction activities contracted out to the private sector. Third, in order to enable
water users to become effective partners in PIM, the legal framework has to provide for full protection of
the right of water users to organize into autonomous, self-managing WUFs. This implies that they are
solely accountable to their members, and that they have full authority to act on behalf of the membership
- 12 -



vis-a-vis the Government and the law. Fourth, both the Government agencies and WUFs need to
participate in an intensive skill development program to acquire the technical and management skills that
would allow them to work as partners in the management of the irrigation system.
The piloting of the development of WUCCs in the context of the IRP and the NWASP
demonstrated the potential for water users to successfully operate and maintain the tertiary level of the
irrigation system. Success in that regard, however, depended on a high and sustained level of institutional
support aimed at both confidence building and skill development among water users. This experience
points to the need for broader organizations of users to allow for a wider fnancial and management base.
It also points to the need for steady institutional support to help establish effective and independent users
organizations. Experience has also demonstrated the difficulties faced by small organizations of water
users in achieving financial viability. The small area covered by WUCCs limited the financial base and
made the accumulation of investment capital close to impossible, as routine administration absorbed most
of the revenues. To remedy this situation, the project will support the development of pilot schemne-based
WUFs which will take over full responsibility for the O&M for sub-schemes or entire schemes of the
system. The development of sub-scheme based WUFs represents an intermediate step to the establishment
of scheme based WUFs. To that end, qualifying WUFs will be given partial grants to acquire O&M
equipment and to finance civil works to be performed under contract by private contractors. They will be
also be given, on a grant basis, the technical assistance and construction materials necessary for carrying
out eligible tertiary (and possibly secondary) canal rehabilitation "in-house" through mobilization of their
own labor force. Each qualifying WUF will be required to prepare and submit to PIU a detailed proposal
specifying their work program and justifying it, including a list of equipment, technical assistance and
training requirement, and materials. The PIU will evaluate each proposal, approve those found acceptable,
and oversee the implementation of those approved. Eligibility criteria for WUF participation in the project
include, in addition to the submission of a technically and financially sound proposal, the adoption of
suitable by-laws and the signing of a transfer agreement with the competent public agency. To accelerate
the demonstration effect of the project, priority will be given at the onset of project implementation to
potential WUFs in schemes with: (i) a high percentage of the tertiary system in the command area already
rehabilitated under IRP and the IFAD supported program; (ii) well-established self-managing WUCCs
interested in fonning a WUF; (iii) strong farner interest in participation as indicated by their meetings; and
(iv) readiness to implemnent the proposed set of activities.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government comrnitted itself to achieving full cost recovery of O&M activities by the year 2007.
Prior to credit negotiations, agreement was reached on reforming the O&M institutions by consolidating
the five independent organizations, currently sharing responsibility for O&M, into WSA and DIMA
enterprises, which will manage the irrigation system in partnership with WUFs.
Until full O&M cost recovery is achieved by the year 2007, WSA and the DIMA Enterprises will have
guaranteed budgets. Such budgets will consist of the resources collected from water users and a
Government subsidy. The latter represents essentially the cost of running the pump stations. Once full
cost recovery for O&M is achieved in 2007, these agencies will become financially self-sufficient.
The timing of increased cost-recovery as agreed with the Government (and included as a financial
covenant in the Credit Agreement) is shown in the table below. These milestones are realistically set on the
basis of a comprehensive business plan (updated annually) for the Vorogum enterprise (formerly OME, but
now including WSA, the Dam Maintenance Enterprise, the Drainage Enterprise, and other enterprises
involved in water captation) and the regional DIMA enterprises.
-13 -



2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007
Billed tariff as share of total costs   60%  73%  86%      99%      113%    125%
Collection Rate                 55%      60%      65%      70%      75%      80%
Actual Cost recovery            33%      44%      56%      70%      85%      100%
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Bank support is useful in identifying and in helping to introduce best practices from international
experience in areas, which are critical for achieving the project development objective. These include: (i)
the restructuring of public institutions; (ii) the development of water users associations/federations and the
creation of conditions for increasing beneficiaries' interest and participation in the project; (iii) the
introduction of participatory irrigation management; and (iv) the development of cost recovery mechanisms.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Cost benefit    NPV=US$17.1 million; ERR  24.8%  (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
o Other (specify)
A full economic analysis of project interventions has been undertaken and is presented in Annex 8
for investment activities proposed under the project: rehabilitation of canal structures, and conversion of
pump irrigation into gravity irrigation.  Separate economic analyses have been performed for each
component and, within each component, for each of the discrete interventions. At project level, all
economic benefits and costs, excluding the institutional reforms, have been aggregated, resulting in an
overall ERR of 24.8% and an NPV of US$ 17.1 million.
A separate analysis was performed on the Araks in-take. The benefits associated with this in-take
represent a combination of reduced maintenance costs and reduced energy use. The reduced cost of
maintenance of the Araks main canal (about US$ 43,000 per year) is a result of the construction of a sand
trap. The decrease in use of energy (estimated at 6.3 million kwh, valued at roughly US$ 0.35 million per
year) is a result of a partial shift from pump to gravity irrigation. The ERR is estimated at 26.6%, and
with the inclusion of the rehabilitation of critical canal structures the ERR of the component is 27.5%.
Economic analysis was performed on each of the 26 pump irrigation schemes considered for
conversion into gravity irrigation.  Crop budgets and cropping patterns based on current average
performance in four agro-ecological zones were used to evaluate the benefits of bringing these areas under
affordable gravity irrigation. The altemative of leaving them dependent on costly pump irrigation would
eventually lead to a drastic decline in irrigated agriculture as system facilities are left to deteriorate as
foreseen under the without project scenario. Out of the 26 schemes considered, 18 showed satisfactory
ERR, i.e. above a benchmark of 15%. Due to resource constraints, however, the criteria for inclusion in
the project was further tightened and only 8 schemes with an ERR of at least 20% and an NPV of at least
US$ 1.5 million, qualified for funding. Following Government decision to implement the project in two
stages, priority in IDP-Stage I was given to 3 schemes with highest potential for saving energy, namely,
Ajgedzor, Ajrun, and Egegnadzor. Because of its high investment cost, estimated at about US$ 10.5
- 14 -



million, Egegnadzor was the subject of a more in-depth analysis involving extensive field investigations to
prepare crop budgets and cropping patterns. Despite its relatively high cost, the ERR for this scheme was
estimated at 23.8% and its NPV at US$ 6.6 million. The ERR and NPV reflect the potential in this region
for production of high value crops such as good quality wine grape, apricots and other fruits. It should be
noted, however, that the viability of this scheme is strengthened by recent recovery of agro-processing and
the marketing channels for these high value products in Egegnadzor. By aggregating the economic and cost
streams of the 3 schemes, the ERR of the component was estimated at 24%.
The economic analysis of the interventions in WUF formation and tertiary rehabilitation count only
the benefits from reduced water losses which arise from physical rehabilitation of tertiary conveyance
structures. There are additional benefits associated from improved and more timely operation of irrigation
management at the tertiary level through better organized water rotation schedules under WUFs, but these
operational benefits are not included in the analysis as they are difficult to quantify. The quantified
benefits are the reduction of physical loss rates from current levels of 50% on-farm to only 10%. As the
flow of water per hectare at the tertiary level is roughly 6,500 cubic meters, the expected savings from
tertiary rehabilitation are on the order of 2,500 cubic meters. When evaluated at US$ 0.035 per cubic
meter, this yields net benefits per year of roughly US$ 80 per hectare. When set off against per hectare
costs of US$ 350 per hectare (US$ 250 of rehabilitation plus US$ 100 per hectare on average for
institutional investments in equipment and training), the component yields an ERR of 24.5% (with an NPV
of US$ 4.4 million on rehabilitation covering 22,000 hectares).
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
The financial analysis consisted in assessing project impact at farm level. Typical crop models
were derived from about 230 farm interviews undertaken in September 1998 on a purposive sample of
farms representative of the country's four agro-ecological zones. These zones consisted of: the valley,
where no cropping is possible without irrigation; the pre-mountainous zone, where low yield wheat and
alfalfa could be grown under rain-fed conditions; the mountain zone, which is similar to the previous one
but with lower yields; and the sub-tropical zone, where no rain-fed cropping is possible, but where
optimum conditions exist for growing high value crops (such as fruits and wine grapes) with supplementary
irrigation.
The analysis shows that: (i) the average net farm income derived from irrigated agriculture ranges
from US$ 400 to US$ 1,000 per ha in the with-project situation, compared to between US$ 0 (where no
rain-fed cropping is possible) and US$ 200 (where rain-fed cropping is possible) in the without-project
situation; (ii) the value of one cubic meter of water is estimated at about 19 drams (US$ 0.035) on average,
compared to the current water charge of 3.8 dramns and its full cost of 12.7 drams; (iii) farm incomes would
typically increase by at least 30-40% as a result of the project; and (iv) assuming that 8% of the gross farm
income would be a reasonable price for a typical farmer to pay for water, the analysis shows that, if water
is available in time and in planned quantity, the "affordable" water fee could range between 10 and 16
drams/m3 (US$ 0.018 to 0.03).
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact of the project incorporates at least two elements. First, the project will lead to a
decrease in Government subsidies to irrigation by about US$ 1.4 million per year as a result of the
conversion of the 3 schemes from pump to gravity irrigation and the construction of the Araks in-take.
Second, in the conversion areas alone, the demand on the public budget will decrease by about US$
500,000 per year as a result of the transfer of responsibility for O&M of the conversion schemes from
- 15-



Government to water users, and the elimination of the need for removal of sediments at the Araks intake.
The FRR of these fiscal impacts (including Government co-financing of the IDP as costs) is 25%.
3. Technical:
All irrigation facilities considered for rehabilitation under the project were the subject of detailed
survey work by the Government preparation team and their consultants. These schemes were also visited
by FAO/CP backstopping teams and by IDA preparation teams. The methodology used in prioritizing
repair and rehabilitation works was discussed at length between the Government, the FAO/CP, and the IDA
teams. During project preparation, emphasis was placed on ensuring that resources potentially available
are used for rehabilitation activities that contribute most to the operational efficiency and long-tern
sustainability of the irrigation system. Due consideration was also given to how to prevent further
deterioration of segments of the system not rehabilitated under the project. Detailed preliminary designs are
ready for structures included in the project's first year work program. Provision is made under the project
for the detailed design of other structures. Cost estimates were made on the basis of actual civil works
contracts awarded by PIU under the IRP at the time of project preparation. Physical contingencies of 5%
were included in the cost estimates of civil works. Price contingencies were based on projected inflation
rates and local currency exchange rates, as estimated by the World Bank.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Executing agencies: Although no major issue is foreseen with regard to the local capacity to design,
implement, and manage project interventions during the project period, sustainability of project benefits
requires the restructuring and strengthening of the agencies which are expected to operate and maintain the
irrigation system following its rehabilitation. Currently, five agencies and two Ministry Departments are
involved in system O&M. The allocation of responsibility among them is, however, unclear and the basis
for accountability is very weak. These agencies are also handicapped by unmotivated staff due to low
salaries, limited operational budgets, inadequate mobility, and nearly no exposure to intemational
experience. In addition, while Government declared its commitment to the participatory approach for
irrigation management, the conditions that would enable that commitment to become operational in the field
are not fully in place. In particular, the independent status of WUFs and WUCCs needs to be reaffirmed
through constitutional means, and the rules and regulations underlying their business interaction with public
sector agencies need to be adjusted within the legal framework to allow for fair and enforceable contracts
between the two sides. The project provides for addressing those requirements on the basis of the
recommendations of an institutional audit of the O&M system and in conformity with Government decision
to shift responsibility for O&M from the Ministry of Agriculture to the State Committee for Water
Management (SCWM). In particular, the project provides for: (i) restructuring of the five current O&M
agencies into two sets of agencies to be strengthened under the project; and (ii) creating the conditions that
will enable WUFs to become independent and effective partners in the management of the irrigation system
at all levels. In addition, the project supports increased empowerment of WUFs to take over greater
responsibility in the management of tertiary rehabilitation activities, both to help them acquire a sense of
ownership, and to lower the cost of rehabilitation. In particular, WUFs will be encouraged to progressively
take over the responsibility for contracting out rehabilitation works, and for deciding on the priority works
to be undertaken in conformity with the resources available to them from their membership and from
Government grants under the project. WUFs will also be assisted to acquire the capacity to take over full
responsibility for O&M beyond the tertiary canals, and to more effectively participate in the management
of the irrigation and drainage system.
- 16-



4.2 Project management:
The PIU has effective management and experienced staff. As the scope of its work is expected to
substantially expand under the DSP and the IDP, the need will arise for an increase in staff, particularly in
the areas of procurement, financial control, construction supervision, and monitoring and evaluation.
Provision to that effect is made under the project. The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit will be
strengthened to include an agricultural economist and a water management specialist. The procurement
and the accounting units will be strengthened through training of the junior staff currently on board and the
addition of a junior specialist in each unit. Technical assistance is also provided to assist SCWM in the
restructuring of O&M agencies and to support the development of WVUFs.
4.3 Procurement issues:
None outstanding - see Annex 6 for full presentation of proposed procurement methods.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Country financial management issues. The Bank conducted a Country Financial Accountability
Assessment in 1997 and concluded that the country-wide framework in support of accounting and auditing
is incomplete and still forming. However, these risks have been mitigated by the use of an experienced
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) which currently manages the Dam Safety Project and the Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project and whose financial management arrangements meet the Bank's minimum
requirements.
Banking sector. The Bank conducted a Financial Sector Assessment (FSA) in May 2001 and is
supervising an Enterprise Development Project in which a credit line is operating through 12 participating
commercial banks, and has concluded that the banking sector in Armenia is weak and relatively vulnerable.
Thus the PIU will be required to obtain the Bank's consent for the commercial bank at which the Special
Account will be located.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Sumnmarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
An environmental assessment was undertaken at the onset of the project preparation process. The
assessment concluded that the project will comply with all Bank Safeguard Policies, provided that the
mitigation measures will be implemented in conformity with the Environmental Management Plan (EMP).
Given the rehabilitation nature of project interventions, no significant negative environmental impacts are
expected from the project. As the nature of most works under the project is primarily of the delayed
maintenance type, the main foreseeable environmental issues faced by the project are the ones associated
with the management and disposal of excavated materials and construction debris.
The main positive environmental impacts of IDP will be the reduction of water losses and the
improvement of soil quality in those areas that will return to irrigated agriculture. While the reduction of
water losses represents an environmental benefit per se, the magnitude of the latter will depend very much
also from the capacity of farmers to maintain an improved soil quality through sound soil management
practices. Whithin the training activities to be provided to WUFs' staff and members, a provision has been
made for this purpose in order to promote sustainable agricultural practices through better water
conservation and reuse, and soil management.
- 17 -



5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
To address those issues, all works contracts envisaged under the project will include standard
provisions requiring contractors to prepare waste management plans and to get permits for the disposal of
excavated materials, as the basis for mitigating those conventional impacts in conformity with
environmentally sound practices. The EMP also includes specific measures to mitigate environmental
problems in the project area, pre-dating the project itself. Specific provision was made under the project
for addressing environmental issues if and when they materialize relating to the flow of the Araks River and
associated ecosystems. In addition, careful attention has been given during the preparation of the project to
ensure that no project interventions will interfere with the integrity of historical/cultural monuments,
sensitive natural habitats, and nature monuments.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: April 27, 2001
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Through extensive field visits the specialists in charge for survey work under preparation of the EA
interviewed a wide range of potential stakeholders. On the basis of the information gathered, the team
prepared a preliminary report that was made available through the PIU and which was then discussed in a
series of meetings organized by the EA team and the PIU, with representatives of all agencies having an
interest in water supply and associated environmental considerations. In addition, The MOA sought the
views of potential stakeholders at a subsequent plenary meeting attended by representatives of the
concemed Ministries and State Enterprises, affected villages and municipalities, Armenian NGOs,
Technical Institutes, and the World Bank. On the basis of the feedback received, a draft report was
prepared and formally submitted for review and approval by the Ministry of Nature Protection. The final
report and the associated Environmental Management Plan (EMP) incorporate all the recommendations of
that Ministry.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Four water monitoring stations will be constructed downstream of the following: Airun,
Egegnadzor and Aygedzor conversion schemes and Araks intake. Monitoring of quantity of water in those
four stations will be carried out by Armhydromet while the quality control will be tendered out for the life
of the Project. Provision has been provided under the project to ensure that interventions on the Araks
intake and in the conversion schemes leave sufficient residual flow to meet the sanitary and water quality
requirements of the rivers. In particular the joint Republic of Armenia and Turkey commission on operation
of Oktemberian Hydraulic Unit has ensured that the minimal requirement of cubic meters of water per
second will be respected also downstream of the Araks intake in the summer. The same commission will
organize periodic monitoring for this purpose.
The credit agreement incorporates a covenant committing the Government to the effective
management of such a monitoring system.
- 18 -



6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
A social assessment was undertaken at the onset of the project preparation process.  The
assessment concluded that, while no negative social impact is expected from project interventions, a
concerted effort is required under the project to help create the enabling conditions for effective
participation by beneficiaries in the management of the irrigation system. This recommendation has been
fully taken into consideration in the design of the project. Specifically, the project provides for: (i)
institutional support to help WUFs and WUCCs develop the management and technical skills that will
enable them to participate, as effective partners, in the management of the irrigation system; (ii) support to
upgrade the legal framework and the rules and procedures goveming the establishment of WUFs and
WUCCs and the rules and procedures governing the relationship between water users and Government
agencies participating in the management of the irrigation system; and (iii) support to reform and
strengthen the public sector institutional set-up responsible for O&M activities.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: The planned program addresses concerns
known to the primary project beneficiaries (the farmers) through their involvement in the planning and
implementation of two on-going projects (IRP and NWASP). Local communities have been and will
continue to be informed and consulted, as needed during project implementation. Water users, through
WUFs and WUCCs, will also assume direct responsibility at the tertiary level of the irrigation system for
(i) the implementation of rehabilitation activities, (ii) water distribution and collection of water charges, and
(iii) participation in the overall management of the irrigation system through WUFs membership in the
IWG.
b. Other key stakeholders: NA
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
During project implementation, extensive consultation with existing WUCCs will continue to
assess their willingness and readiness to take part in the process of their federation into WUFs which cover
whole irrigation sub-schemes up to the interface with WSA. Eligibility criteria have been devised to make
the process of qualifying for access to IDP resources both transparent and orderly. Eligible WUFs will
decide for themselves the degree of rehabilitation of tertiary canals to be targeted as well as the degree to
which rehabilitation of secondary canals can also be afforded (given the maximum of $250 per hectare
available to WUFs).
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
A major institutional reformn of the project is the drafting and passage of a Law on Water User
Associations, which will provide the legal basis for effective participatory irrigation management, and
specifically lay out the procedures through which WUFs gain legal access to irrigation infrastructure at the
main and secondary levels. WUFs which have been legally established, and which have adopted suitable
by-laws and signed the transfer agreement on management of infrastructure, will prepare a proposal for
equipment and civil works to be partially financed under the project and for training required. They should
also express whether they prefer to organize the rehabilitation works through their own labor force or they
- 19-



would prefer to contract the rehabilitation works out. In this way, the IDP intends to reach the important
social development outcome of transferring to community based organizations a significant (and ever
larger) share of managerial responsibility for the irrigation sector. The PIU will examine the consistency of
WIUFs' requests on the basis of criteria such as condition of their infrastructure, capabilities of their
personnel, scale of the rehabilitation works requested, and will agree with the WUFs on the amount and the
type of equipment, training and civil works that could be financed under the project. A specific training
plan will be agreed upon for each federation on a set of topics including accounting, managerial
competence and irrigation techniques.
In addition, the Government has agreed to include the representatives of WUCCs and federations
thereof as participants in the IWG, where they will be able to air issues openly and transparently about
improper management and/or poor delivery of irrigation water by WSA and the DIMAs.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Two of the specific outcomes to be monitored under the IDP (as set out in Annex I - Project
Design Summary) target participatory irrigation management. The PIU will first monitor the degree to
which operation, ordinary and extraordinary maintenance (cleaning, small repairs, etc.) are ensured on the
infrastructure transferred to federations. It will also monitor the amount of civil works carried out by
WJUFs through self-organized management of their own labor force (which is targeted to be roughly 60% of
the total amount of works financed under the IDP for WUFs).
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Po:l:::::0j; 0:0 4icwA AAplOicbi:it
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            * Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    * Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Regarding the Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) - The environmental Assessment has been
conducted, its results disclosed and discussed in open meetings with stakeholders and public at large. The
Credit Agreement includes a covenant calling for the implementation of the Environmental Management
Plan. IDA will review and approve each intervention financed under the project from environmental
considerations and monitor the adherence to the EMP as part of its supervision activities.
Regarding Riparian issues (OP 7.50) - The Araks river west of the Ararat Valley forms the border
between Armenia and Turkey. By treaty, Armenia and Turkey have mutually agreed (in 1983) to draw a
maximum flow of 53 cubic meters per second (m3/sec) from the point on the Araks river where both
countries have installed barrages and corresponding water intakes. Since the widening of the Araks intake
would increase the flow capacity of the intake from 26 cubic meters/second to 53 m3/sec, it would adhere
strictly to the treaty in force. The annual flow from the intake on the Armenian side would be increased as
- 20 -



a result of the widening of the intake canal from roughly 250 million to 350 million cubic meters of water
annually. Turkey was notified by Armenia of the proposed project in December 1999, within the context of
the periodic joint meetings of the Republic of Armenia and Turkey Commissions on the Operation of
Sardarapat (Hoktemberian) Hydraulic Unit, and is fully aware of the proposed Project's intent to widen the
Araks intake on the Armenian side of the river. Turkey and Armenia also conduct joint, periodic reviews of
the operations of the intakes on both the Turkish and Armenian sides of the Araks intakes and of the
maintenance of the minimum sanitary flow of 5 m3/sec downstream of the intakes. The latest such review
contains a Joint Resolution that expresses the Turkish Government's support of the widening of the Araks
intake on the Armenian side, per their inter-governmental agreement.
The IDP-financed irrigation rehabilitation works additional to the widening of the Araks intake
would be according to original design specifications, and would not lead to an increase in abstraction
capacity. Instead, better control of water abstraction, conveyance, and distribution would lead to better
water management, and may indeed lead to reduced water use. The proposed project would not cause
appreciable harm to the interest of other riparians, and would not be appreciably harmed by the other
riparians' possible water use.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Adequate and regular maintenance of the whole irrigation system is critical to the sustainability of project
benefits. Since the project provides for the rehabilitation of the most critical structures only, any delay in
the maintenance of the remainder of the system will cause it to deteriorate fuirther, thus undermining the
utility of the sections already rehabilitated. Effective maintenance will require institutions with technical
and managerial capabilities, along with adequate financial resources. The project provides for restructuring
and strengthening the irrigation and drainage institutions responsible for the O&M process from the source
of water down to farmers' fields. The project also supports the adoption of arrangements to give those
institutions the requisite financial resources to assume their respective responsibilities, and for the whole
O&M system to become financially self-sustaining by the time full O&M cost recovery is achieved by
2007. Assurances will be sought from Government that budgetary allocations will be made to bridge the
financing gap in the budgets of WSA's and DIMA Enterprises to reflect the O&M subsidies mandated
under the current policy of partial cost recovery. This financial gap is currently estimated at US$ 9.2
million for 2002, US$ 7.8 million for 2003, US$ 6.1 million for 2004, US$ 4.2 million for 2005, and US$
2.1 million for 2006. These estimates would need verification/updating by the TCC on the basis of a survey
of the irrigation and drainage system. The estimates will, subsequently, be updated annually to reflect any
changes in Govemnment cost recovery policy and any new requirements emanating from unforeseen
circumstances at the field level in the course of each year. To ensure accountability for the state of the
irrigation and drainage infrastructure, each of the DIMA Enterprises will have an autonomous budget
determiined on the basis of a work plan agreed by the TCC.
The sustainability of project benefits will also depend on effective participation by WUFs in the
management of the irrigation and drainage system. To that end, the project supports the creation of
conditions that would enable WUFs to become effective partners with WSA and DIMA Enterprises in the
management of the irrigation system. In particular, all future tertiary rehabilitation will be initiated only
following a proposal submitted by each concemed WUF for approval by PIU. This will promote
sustainability and will help WUFs adapt their system to one, which they can afford to rehabilitate in the
present and maintain in the long run.
- 21 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Government relaxes its commitment to        M         A specific legal framework defining status,
PIM and to the development of                         duties, rights, operating procedures, etc. for
independent WUFs                                      WUFs, will be ready by the end of the first year
of implementation of the project.
Inadequate resources for O&M                S         In addition to Government commitment to full
cost recovery by no later than 2007,
Government is also committed to financing the
O&M funding gap resulting during the
transition period.
From Components to Outputs
Delay in the procurement of goods and       M         Experience under on-going projects
services due to inaction by Govemnment                demonstrated the need for a less drawn-out
agencies and the Bank following                       review process of procurement documents by
submission by PIU.                                    both the Government and the Bank. Assurances
for swifter action were provided by both sides
Delay in the transfer to PIU of             S         Through a project covenant, the Government
Government share of project costs                     agreed to a quarterly transfer of its share in
equal installments to simplify the process.
Overall Risk Rating                         5
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*     PIU will open a project account in a commercial bank with an initial deposit in local currency
equivalent to US $250,000.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Conditions of disbursements
Under Category (3)(a), for component 3: The Borrower will expand the scope of the terms of reference
of the Technical Consultative Commission on O&M, established under the DSP, to cover examination
and approval of the level of O&M expenditures for the whole irrigation and drainage sector and
regulation of tariffs therein.
- 22 -



Under Categories (1)(b), (2), and (3)(b), for component 3: The Borrower will enact a law on Water
Users Associations, along with regulations and procedures to provide the legal basis for effective
participatory irrigation management. This is expected to be done by March 31, 2002.
Implementation arrangements
The PIU will be maintained under the State Committee for Water Management with responsibility for
management of the IDA supported irrigation projects.
* By September 30 in each year, PIU will prepare and submit to IDA for review an annual work plan
and the associated budget.
The PIU will strengthen its WUFs' Support Unit to enable it to intensify its interaction with WUFs and
WUCCs.
The Project Account will be maintained with an adequate balance for uninterrupted project operation,
through quarterly replenishments by the Ministry of Finance.
The Borrower will allocate to SCWM annual budgets to fully cover the subsidy mandated under the
policy in effect, and in conformity with the recommendations of the Independent Technical Consultative
Commission on O&M.
* The regional DIMA Enterprises will operate as autonomous agencies on the basis of annual work plans
and associated budgets approved by the TCC.
-WUFs/WUCCs will be solely responsible for the collection from their members of water charges as
determined by Borrower cost recovery plan. WUFs/WUCCs will also be free to collect membership
fees in such amounts that will allow them to assume their responsibilities and meet their internal
fmancial needs in the short run while building a basis for financial viability in the long run.
* Water fees collected by WUFs/WUCCs will be deposited in a scheme-level account in the name of the
concerned DIMA Enterprise. The latter, however, will have no authority over the allocation of such
funds. The fees collected in each scheme, along with the scheme's share of the Borrower financed
subsidy, will be allocated by SCWM to WSA and the DIMA Enterprise strictly on the basis of the
TCC recommendations.
The DIMA Enterprises will focus on the management of the O&M process, leaving the actual O&M
tasks to be executed by private contractors in conformity with procurement procedures in effect.
The Irrigation Working Group will be established by March 31, 2002, with representation of the Water
Supply Agency (WSA), Drainage and Irrigation Management Agency enterprises (DIMA enterprises),
and sub-scheme and scheme-level Water User Federations (WUFs).
The Borrower will monitor and evaluate project implementation, on an ongoing basis, in accordance
with indicators satisfactory to IDA (Annex 1).
The PIU will prepare by March 31, 2004, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, a mid-term
progress report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities and setting out a
strategy for the timely completion of project implementation. This report will be discussed with IDA by
June 30, 2004 with the aim to agree on any necessary changes in project design and implementation
arrangements.
The PIU will maintain a financial management system acceptable to the Association. The project
financial statements, SOEs (or PMRs if used as the basis of disbursement), and Special Account will
be audited by independent private auditors acceptable to the Association and on terms of reference
- 23 -



acceptable to the Association. The annual audited statements and audit report will be provided to the
Association within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
The consolidated financial statements of the WSA and DIMA enterprises will be audited by
independent private auditors acceptable to the Association and on terms of reference acceptable to the
Association. The consolidated annual audited statements and audit report will be provided to the
Association within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
H. Readiness for Implementation
Z 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
C 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
*. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Mark R. Lundell                   evr.Cleaver                          . OCno
Team Leader                       Sector Director                   Country Director
- 24 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ARMENIA: IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
rKy PerFo1manee  
Hfr1 rchyotObjctIves             ln'dto.s             Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
I. Preserve and create new  1.1 Increase in agricultural   1.1 Ministry of Agriculture    Macro-economic framework
jobs through long-term     employment                 and Ministry of Statistics  and policy fundamentals
sustainable agricultural                             reports                     supportive of private sector
growth                                                                           development which will lead
to poverty reduction in rural
areas
2. Improve public sector   2.1 Substantial decrease in   2.1 PIU monitoring reports
services in providing      complaints by irrigation water
irrigation water           users in terms of quantity,
quality, and timely delivery of
requested water
3. Improve human capital in  3.1 Increase communities'    3.1 WUFs reports, P1U
rural areas                systematic involvement in    monitoring reports
proposing investments in the
irrigation system, in carrying
out rehabilitation works, in
completing O&M of the
system under their control and
in monitoring water
distribution
- 25 -



Key Perforance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators           Monitorig & Evluatioi               I Critical Assumptions
Project Development        Outcome I Impact            Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                  Indicators:
1. Increased average farm  1.1 30% increase in average   1.1 PIU monitoring reports   From Objective 1 to CAS goal
income in project area     farm income in project area   and surveys               1. Land consolidation process
over 5 years of the project                            does not particularly
accelerate opening the door
for a capital- intensive style of
farming.
2. Increased level and efficacy 2.1 Improvement of the ratio  2.1 WSAJDIMA enterprise    From objective 2 to CAS goal
of O&M activities          of water entering the       reports verified by the     2. Public agencies managers
system/water delivered to  Monitoring and Evaluation    not able to develop a concept
WUCCs and WUFs             Unit of the PIU'            of customer service in
managing water delivery to
2.2 Operation, ordinary and   2.2 WUFs' reports, PIU   users.
extraordinary maintenance    monitoring reports
(cleaning, small repairs, etc.)
ensured on 100% of the
infrastructure transferred to
federations
3. Promotion of community   3.1 Amount of Civil Works   3.1 WUFs' reports, PIU
driven development in the  carried out by WUFs through  financial reports
irrigation sub-sector      self-organized management of
their own labor force, no
lower than 60% of the total
amount of works financed
under the project for WUFs
- 26 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators           Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Increased efficiency of  1I.1 Ensure that an additional  1. I PIU Monitoring reports   From output I and 2 to
irrigation system          100 million cubic meters of                             objective 1. Other constraints
water/year is delivered within                         to farm profitability
the system (Araks intake) and                          addressed: (marketing,
that another 60 million cubic                          financial services, etc.)
meters is saved through
rehabilitation of critical
structures and tertiary systems
(22,000 hectares).
2. Reduced cost of irrigation   2.1 Convert 7,300 ha from  2.1 PIU Monitoring reports   From output 2 and 3 to
pump to gravity irrigation, for                        objective 2. New water
a total savings of 48 million                          agencies and WUFs able to
kwh/year.                                              rationalize the amount of
labor force needed to ensure
correct O&M, freeing
resources for other necessary
recurrent expenses and
investments.
From output 2 and 3 to
objective 2. A system of
collection of water charges is
refined and capable to
contribute to the increase of
the collection rate at each
level.
3. Reduced responsibility, and 3.1 Eight to ten WUFs   3.1 PIU Monitoring reports   From output 3 to objective 3.
increased effectiveness, of    established, covering a total                       No conflicting legal measures
Government in provision of   area of about 40,000 ha                               are taken that could limit
irrigation services; and                                                           WUFs in taking decisions
increased responsibility of    3.2 Cost-recovery rate of                           about the management of the
WUFs in provision of       O&M expenses for WSA and                                infrastructure transferred to
irrigation services        DIMA Enterprises reach                                 them.
100% by year 2007
- 27 -



Key Perforance
0 Hieulra   of objctive.s;       indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
1. Rehabilitation of critical   US $4.3 million      For all components: PIU     All components: Timely
canal structures                                      financial reports          procurement of goods and
services and execution of
project activities.
All components: Timely
transfer to PIU of Govemment
share in project funding.
2. Conversion of 3 schemes   US $13.9 million
from pump to gravity
irrigation
3. Institutional Development  US $9.6 million                                    Timely adoption of the
appropriate legal framework
3.1 Establishment of                                                          (Law on WUFs, by laws and
Water User Federations                                                          transfer agrcements)
3.2 Reorganization of
public O&M agencies
4. Project Management      US $1.8 million
5. Activities under PPF   US $1.2 million
- 28 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ARMENIA: IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Background
1.    The Irrigation Development Project - Stage I (IDP - Stage I) is part of a long-term program which
aims to rehabilitate the irrigation and drainage infrastructure of Armenia, and to create the institutional
capability and procedures to maintain it and to prevent its future deterioration. This project builds on
progress to-date under the preceding Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (IRP) and Northwest Agricultural
Services Project (NWASP), and the ongoing Dam Safety Project (DSP). In addition, the project supports
further development efforts to address both physical and institutional irrigation sector deficiencies in a
broader and more integrated manner. In particular, given that physical system deterioration has been due
largely to absent or inadequate maintenance over almost a decade, provisions to help avoid future
recurrence of this situation have been considered to be of greater importance than the support for needed
physical rehabilitation works.
2.    Under the IRP, the principal institutional development initiative was aimed at addressing the issue
of irrigation sustainability at tertiary systems level. An IFAD-fmanced component under the IRP initiated
the process of involving water users in the management of the irrigation system through the establishment
of water user groups in the form of Water User Consumer Cooperatives (WUCCs). This program
provided for assisting farmers with the rehabilitation and subsequent operation and maintenance (O&M) of
the tertiary systems serving them. It also supported the development of institutional capabilities to allow
WUCCs to operate as independent, self-managing tertiary-level management entities, capable of
maintaining the tertiary system and, eventually, participating in the management of higher-level sections of
the irrigation water conveyance system. These efforts under the IRP were expanded under a component of
the subsequent IFAD-supported NWASP. To ensure consistency in approach and effective coordination,
implementation responsibility for both components under the IRP and the NWASP was given to the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) responsible for implementing irrigation projects. By the end of these two
projects the WUCCs strengthened under them will cover about 30% of the active service area within the
major irrigation schemes. The degree of effectiveness achieved by those WUCCs remains, however, very
variable.
3.    Subsequent to the initial selective establishment of WUCCs under the IRP, which was undertaken
in accordance with pre-defmed criteria and with well-considered support programs, it was decreed by
Government that WUCCs should be formed to cover all irrigation schemes in the country. These decreed
WUCCs have not benefited from any institutional support and remain under the control of village
administrations. In fact, not even the project supported WUCCs can be considered ideal user groups for
water management purposes, not least because they were formed and supported for the land reform areas
and corresponding small landholders rather than for the entire tertiary system command areas and all water
users.
4.    A new IFAD-supported Agricultural Services Project is expected to further expand the WUCCs
development and support program within selected regions of the country. However, it is considered that,
for securing long-term systems management sustainability, a program of consolidation, rationalization and
evolution of previous water user organization and support interventions would now be most desirable.
Such a program is proposed for initiation under the IDP - Stage I.
5.    The long-term sustainability of the irrigation system at all levels will also depend, to a great extent,
on the putting in place by Government of a functional and reliably-funded mechanism for the operation and
- 29 -



regular maintenance of the irrigation infrastructure from water source to farm level. To that end, IDP
Stage 1 interventions are planned to promote and develop an effective participatory O&M system. Under
such a system, water users would share with Government the physical and fiscal responsibilities and
accountability for the management of irrigation water conveyance, distribution and delivery systems,
through legally constituted sound and rational institutional and financial linkages between water user
organizations and public sector agencies.
Project Development Objective
6.     The long-term national program, of which the project is a part, was conceived in the mid-1990s to
support the rehabilitation and restructuring of the country's irrigation and drainage system. In view of the
magnitude of the task at hand and of the resources required, the Government opted to implement this
program in two phases. The first phase of the program comprised emergency interventions to secure
continuity of system operation, along with pilot/demonstration activities to develop a practical methodology
for improving system management. Implementation of this phase was initiated under the IRP, with
financial support from IDA and IFAD, and was continued under the IFAD-supported NWASP and the
IDA-supported DSP, which is expected to conclude the emergency intervention phase. The second phase
of the program is expected to be the restructunng and development phase. It will focus on building a solid
basis for system sustainability through physical upgrading of the system and empowerment of stakeholders
to prevent its future deterioration. The design of this long-term program was based on a detailed survey of
the whole irrigation system. An assessment was made of the rehabilitation/upgrading requirements for the
countrywide system. These requirements were prioritized within each irrigation scheme and across the 13
major schemes, on both technical and economic grounds. All identified requirements were ranked on a scale
from I to 7, rank I representing the highest priority. The decision on the scope of the program was made on
the basis of technical, economic, and funding availability considerations. The cost of the totality of the
requirements initially identified was estimated at US$ 120 million. This program was considered, at the
outset, beyond the country's current means.
7.     Further cost effectiveness analysis, led to two technically and economically viable options, one
costing US$ 83 million and the other costing US$ 66 million. To arrive at the US$ 83 million option, the
original program was reduced on the basis of the priority ranking of individual elements to limit project
interventions to: (i) rehabilitation activities ranked 4 or below in the original canal rehabilitation program in
the six top ranked schemes; (ii) 18 conversion schemes with an ERR > 15% (out of 50 surveyed and 26
meeting the technical criteria); and (iii) primary and secondary open and covered collector drains. The
second option of about US$ 66 million was reached by further limiting the scope of the program to: (i)
rehabilitation of primary and secondary canals in the three top-ranked schemes; (ii) conversion of 8
schemes with an ERR > 20% and an NPV > 1.5 mnillion; and (iii) rehabilitation of primary and secondary
open collector drains only. The Government and the Bank agreed that this second option represents the
most cost-effective minimal technical solution likely to provide a reasonable basis for system sustainability
under conditions of severe resource scarcity. At the end of the preparation stage, however, it turned out that
resources available were not sufficient to cover even this last minimalist program. On that basis, the
Government decided to retain this last design option, roughly US$ 31 million, to complete a first stage
while seeking resources over time to support the second phase of its implementation. Again, due to
resource constraints, implementation of this development phase will proceed in at least two stages:
Irrigation Development Project - Stage I. This project will build on the experience gained under
the IRP and NWASP pilot and initial institutional development activities to initiate a suitable countrywide
approach to participatory management of the irrigation system. It will provide for the restructuring and
strengthening of the institutions responsible for system O&M. It will also enable the continuation of the
- 30 -



program initiated under the IRP for conversions of energy-dependent and energy-intensive pump irrigation
systems to more affordable gravity irrigation systems. Finally, it will allow for rehabilitation of critical
canal structures that could not be attended to under the IRP.
Irrigation Development Project - Stage II. This project will focus on upgrading of the irrigation
and drainage infrastructure to a state under which timely repairs and regular routine maintenance would be
sufficient to prevent the future recurrence of significant system deterioration. This will involve the
rehabilitation of primary and secondary collector drains in the Ararat Valley and of high priority primary
and secondary irrigation canals. The project will also provide for completion of the program of conversion
of eligible schemes from pump to gravity irrigation.
8.    The IDP - Stage I project (total value US$ 30.8 million) will therefore build on the achievements of
the IRP and NWASP to further secure and improve the physical and operational status of the irrigation
system, and to enhance its efficiency and sustainability. The project is organized in four components. The
first component aims at completing the remaining emergency interventions through rehabilitation of critical
canal structures not attended to under the IRP, while the second component aims at lowering the cost of
irrigation water supply through conversions from pump to gravity irrigation. The third component
supports the restructuring and strengthening of O&M institutions and management arrangements, and the
fourth component provides for project management during implementation.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$4.33 million
Rehabilitation of Critical Irrigation Structures
9.     This project component is concemed with correcting the most critical deficiencies in the irrigation
system. It is focused on rehabilitation and upgrading of primary canal structures and sections that remain
in a deficient state following completion of the IRP and that are critical for the continued effective
operation of the major irrigation water conveyance infrastructure systems. Canal rehabilitation and
improvement works under this component will be limited to critically deficient higher-level irrigation
system structures and sections. First, within several schemes (Arzni-Shamiram, Talin, Armavir, Shirak,
Vayots-Dzor and Vorotan), high-priority canal structures whose rehabilitation could not be effected earlier
under the IRP will be attended to. These are structures (most often siphons and aqueducts) that have been
classified as highly deteriorated and/or that are leaking significantly, and whose continued degradation and
unsatisfactory performance are considered to jeopardize or severely constrain system operations. Second,
specifically for the Armavir irrigation scheme, capacity expansion of the scheme's Araks river intake,
Oktemberian main conveyance canal and Maisian secondary canal will be undertaken, including
construction of sediment control facilities. These Armavir system improvements have been deemed to offer
particularly important multiple potential benefits, in the areas of operation (reduced energy consumption at
pumping stations), maintenance (reduction of major recurrent sediment removal operations) and
agricultural production (prevention of further soil salinization). The proposed head-works capacity
expansion conforms to an international agreement already in place with the adjacent riparian country,
Turkey.
Project Component 2 - US$13.90 million
Conversion from Pump to Gravity Irrigation
10.   This component aims to reduce the reliance on high-cost energy-intensive irrigation by supporting
the conversion of pump irrigation schemes to gravity irnigation schemes in those cases where clear technical
and economic viability can be demonstrated. For topographical and water resource distribution reasons,
- 31 -



pumping is an integral and often inextricable feature of many irrigation schemes in Armenia. Many pump
irrigation systems were, however, originally developed almost entirely on the basis of convenience without
apparent consideration of alternative technical solutions, and without due regard to financial and economic
considerations. Technical solutions exist for many of those pump irrigation schemes to become more
sustainable through conversion to gravity irrigation. Others, however, unless eliminated, will continue to
represent a heavy and likely unsustainable financial burden on the Government and/or users.
11.   A total of 50 pump irrigation schemes were surveyed countrywide in the course of project
preparation. Water balance and availability estimates relating to the potential for altemative gravity water
supply led to the elimination of many of the candidate schemes. Three additional technical criteria were
considered in determining the eligibility of pump schemes for conversion, leading to disqualification of (i)
all schemes where a residual need for supplementary pumping, and hence pumping station O&M, would
remain following conversion to gravity supply; (ii) all schemes with conversion costs exceeding the cost of
rehabilitation and operation of the pump-based system; and (iii) schemes with low potential savings in
energy consumption and other O&M costs. On this basis, 26 schemes were found to be eligible for
inclusion in the conversion program. An economic analysis was performed for each of those schemes.
Applying the criterion of a minimnum ERR of 20 % combined with a minimum NPV of US$ 1.5 million led
to 8 schemes being retained for implementation.
12.   The subdivision of the IDP into two stages led to the postponement until IDP - Stage II of some
irrigation canal rehabilitation works upon which two of the retained conversion schemes would depend,
thus leading also to postponement of their conversion works. A further attractive but small scheme with a
low overall cost of conversion was set aside by Government for potential implementation under separate
arrangements. Since available project resources were still insufficient to cover the remaining five retained
conversion schemes, those two, which had the higher investment costs per unit of potential energy saving
were also postponed until IDP - Stage II. As a result, the conversions of three schemes with lowest
rehabilitation cost per ha and lowest cost per kW/h saved following conversion are included under this
component of IDP - Stage I. These are (i) the 1,044-ha Aigedzor scheme (US$ 1.8 million), (ii) the
1,500-ha Airum scheme (US$ 1.9 million), and (iii) the 4,770-ha Egegnadzor scheme (US$ 10.2 million).
Project Component 3 - USS 9.65 million
Institutional Development
13.   This component aims at helping in the creation of favorable conditions for timely and cost effective
O&M of the irrigation infrastructure. It is justified at this time on the basis that the irrigation and drainage
institutions are currently in a state of transition, thus providing a timely opportunity for supporting
appropriate institutional refonns for securing the sustainability of the irrigation and drainage system.
14.   Before independence, O&M functions were performed by a central Ministry of Water Resources.
This Ministry was relatively well funded, and the irrigation system was operated and maintained at no
direct cost to users. Following independence, the O&M functions were transferred to several new
organizations, initially under Departments of the Ministry of Agriculture and then most recently under the
newly-formed State Commission for Water Management (SCWM). The new organizations with primary
responsibility for O&M were established as Government-owned autonomous enterprises, which were
intended to be self-financing. To-date, however, neither has financial self-sufficiency been achieved nor
has a reliable mechanism for funding the O&M function from the public budget been put in place. As a
result, critical maintenance needs are routinely postponed, resulting in further deterioration of the irrigation
and drainage infrastructure.
- 32 -



15.   In order to help identify the means of improving the system, the Government commissioned a
comprehensive audit of the O&M function. This audit provided the basis for defining the necessary
interventions for (i) reforming and strengthening the O&M institutional set-up, (ii) making the management
of the irrigation system more participatory and more responsive to the needs of users, (iii) rationalizing the
allocation of responsibility and accountability for O&M between users and public agencies, and (iv)
putting in place effective operational procedures and a practical and reliable mechanism for funding O&M.
The agencies involved in O&M will be restructured and strengthened under the project to achieve these
objectives.
16.   Five public sector agencies are currently involved in the operation and maintenance of the irrigation
and drainage infrastructure. These are (i) the Dam Maintenance Enterprise (DME or Jrambar), (ii) the
Operation and Maintenance Enterprise (OME or Vorogum), (iii) the Drainage Enterprise, (iv) the
Arpa/Sevan Tunnel Agency, and (v) the Water Supply Monitoring Agency (Djrar). These agencies operate
with unreliable budgets, outdated procedures and unmotivated staff. On the side of the water users,
participation in the management of the irrigation system has been limited. While the establishment
countrywide of WUCCs has been mandated by Government decree, the conditions that would enable them
to become full-fledged partners in the management of the irrigation system are yet to be fully provided. The
legal framework and administrative procedures now in effect do not provide a basis for WUCCs to develop
as autonomous, self-managed entities, and put them a major disadvantage vis-a-vis the public sector
agencies involved in system O&M.
17.   As part of the remedy for this situation, the five public agencies currently involved in O&M will be
restructured into two sets of agencies, both of which are expected to remain under the SCWM:
The Water Supply Agency (WSA). This agency will be responsible for the O&M of all facilities
supplying water from all major sources (dams, rivers, diversions, tunnels and major pumping stations)
down to and including the intakes to primary canals. The WSA will take over (i) all tasks currently
allocated to the DME, Djrar and the Arpa/Sevan Tunnel Agency, and (ii) the O&M of the river intake
structures and the larger pumping stations, which is currently allocated to OME.
Drainage and Irrigation Management Agencies (DIMAs). These will be agencies constituted as
autonomous regional or scheme-level O&M enterprises. They will generally correspond roughly to the
current OME regional branches, within and between which some reorganization and reallocation of
responsibilities will be needed to ensure that no scheme is serviced by more than one DIMA Enterprise.
These enterprises will take over responsibility for (i) all tasks previously assigned to the Drainage
Enterprise, and (ii) O&M of the primary and secondary canals of the irrigation system (including their
associated smaller pumping stations), currently assigned to OME.  The irrigation system  O&M
responsibilities of the DIMA Enterprises will extend down from below the primary canal intakes (interface
with WSA) to, initially, the tertiary canal intakes (interface with WUCCs). Under the project, a transfer of
responsibilities for secondary canal systems O&M from DIMA Enterprises to suitably constituted and
trained Water User Federations (WUFs) will be effected in selected sub-scheme or scheme areas, to provide
the blueprint for later extension of the program to cover all schemes. Until a comparable initiative can be
taken in the drainage system service areas, DIMA Enterprises responsibilities for infrastructure O&M in
those areas would remain as at present for the Drainage Enterprise. At the national level, a DIMA Board,
comprising the SCWM chairman and a representative from each DIMA Enterprise will perform financial
management, coordination and monitoring functions.
18.   The WSA and DIMA Enterprises will both focus on the management aspects of the O&M
function, as distinct from the works execution aspects. The latter will be contracted out to private
- 33 -



contractors in conformity with the procurement procedures in effect. The O&M budgets for the WSA and
DIMA Enterprises will, ultimately, be fully funded through the mechanism of recovery of actual O&M
costs from WUCCs or WUFs. Since this mechanism is not expected to recover costs fully until 2007,
annual allocations from the Government budget will be made to cover the gap between the actual costs of
system O&M and the amounts mandated by Government for collection from WUCCs or WUFs.
19.   With regard to institutional development at the level of water users, the project will build on the
successes and experiences of the previous projects, and will also coordinate inputs with those of the new
IFAD-supported Agricultural Services Project in the event of overlaps between the two projects. However,
the main thrust of the project will, as indicated above, be not an expansion but rather a consolidation,
rationalization and evolution of previous interventions. By comparison with experience in other similar
situations elsewhere, the WUCC effort to date is seen to be a promising but not sufficient development
towards eventually achieving long-term PIM sustainability from the side of the water users. The two main
constraints at present are considered to be (i) an inadequate legal framework for water user organizations,
providing insufficient breadth of powers and flexibility of actions for what are intended to be independent
and autonomous water management entities; and (ii) a size of organization that is too small to generate and
maintain sufficient capital and cash flow for satisfactory system O&M. These constraints resulted in an
unequal water management partnership, in which the water user groups are dominated by the public sector
agency. A process that should greatly reduce these constraints and partnership inequalities will be initiated
under the project.
20.   In the generally accepted PIM terminology, the WUCCs are comparable to water user groups,
from the point of view of size and a level of responsibility that corresponds to tertiary system units (or parts
thereof) within the irrigation schemes. Such groups are normally informal groups that are not legally
constituted. Water user associations (WUAs) on the other hand are formally constituted legal entities that
are formed to assume irrigation management responsibilities for secondary system units. WUCCs can then
federate to form WUFs for primary system management that will assume responsibilities typical of a
WUA. What is proposed for implementation under the project is the formal and full establishment, within
a satisfactory purpose-built legal framework, of a number (say from 8 to 10) of suitably-sized (around
4,000 to 5,000 ha) WUFs at sub-scheme (secondary system) or scheme level, equivalent to WUAs. This
is considered the intervention most likely to advance the cause of long-term irrigation system sustainability
within the limits of availability of project resources. The intention is that the intervention principles and
practices should evolve with experience over the years of the project, so that they can then become the
model and guide for future application of this approach in the remaining schemes areas countrywide.
21.    Since the WUCCs do have a legal status (even if it is not a fully satisfactory one), the concept of
WUCC federations is perhaps a tenable one. However, under the proposed project, WUFs will need to be
more than, and different from, a simple assembly of existing WUCCs, since the WUCCs themselves often
do not fully correspond to tertiary system units, and since the legal bases will be different. If the WUCCs
are to maintain their identities within a federation, as opposed to their individual members each joining a
higher-level association, then they will need to undergo reforms to render then compatible with the
federation. The enabling legal framework will cover these options. Meanwhile it is assumed that the
WUCCs will indeed be reformed into compatible legal entities that can federate to form WUFs, even
though initially some of them are expected to correspond to secondary rather than primary system units.
22.    Within the main schemes, the interface between sub-scheme WUFs and the corresponding DIMA
Enterprise will be just below secondary canal outlets from the main canal or pumping station systems. In
the case of smaller schemes equivalent to secondary systems but served directly from the major water
sources (e.g. rivers, pumping stations, dams), WUFs would interface directly with the WSA. Since many
- 34 -



individual secondary systems and small schemes are smaller than 4,000 ha in size, and since the larger
areas are considered important for enhancing the viability of self-sustaining system management on the part
of WUFs, the inclusion of more than one secondary system or small scheme under one WUF will be
permissible and indeed encouraged, as long as fundamental principles of land contiguity, of conmmon or
exclusive water sources, and of infrastructure systems integrity, are observed. WIUF formation will be
possible only on the basis of a consenting majority of 51% of potential members.
23.   In addition to the various institutions indicated above, there are two further bodies that will provide
important independent consultative, assessment, mediation, accountability and liaison contributions to
system management, as follows:
Technical Consultative Commission on O&M of the Irrigation and Drainage System (TCC).
The TCC is to be a commission responsible for assessing system-wide O&M requirements on a regular (at
least annual) and as-needed basis. These assessments are to serve as the bases for: (i) the setting of water
fees to be paid by water users; (ii) the distribution of the proceeds between the DIMA Enterprises and the
WSA; (iii) the formulation of WSA and DIMAs' O&M budgets; and (iv) the allocation of Government
subsidy funds as may be needed to make up budget deficits until self-sufficiency of the agencies is
achieved. Such a commission has already been created under the DSP for dams O&M, and its mandate
will therefore need to be extended to cover the entire irrigation and drainage system.
*     Irrigation Water Group (IWG). The IWG will be established by order of the SCWM chairman
to serve as the forum through which all PIM stakeholders can (i) be informed about and contribute to
system O&M conditions and decisions, (ii) present and obtain resolution of conflicts and differences, (iii)
explore and resolve issues relating to accountability, transparency and performance of all of the parties to
system management, and (iv) seek agreements on joint management and coordination activities. IWG
members will be representatives from WSA , DIMA Enterprises, and a WUF/WIJCC representative from
each scheme. The IWG will be convened regularly three times a year (before, during and after the
irrigation season), and additionally as may be warranted by changed circumstances affecting system O&M.
- 35 -



24.    Table I below illustrates the proposed overall O&M system's institutional structure:
Table 1. Structure of O&M System Institutions
I              L          ~~~TCC 
DIMA                             WSA M
Board
|   IMA            ---- --------------- *L------      IWGl
Enterprises                                rtI
25.    Following from all of the above, project interventions under this component will be directed at
supporting the institutional development of (i) WUFs, (ii) the DIMA Enterprises, (iii) the WSA, and (iv)
the SCWM, including the TCC and IWG. For all of these, provisions are made for technical assistance
and training, and for supply of office equipment and vehicles, to support the institutional reform process.
In addition, for the WUFs, support in the form of grants, technical assistance and training for infrastructure
rehabilitation works, for purchase and set-up of maintenance equipment and installations, and for
development of systems management capabilities, will be provided. It is noted that some of the technical
assistance provisions are included under Project Component 4 - Project Management.
26.   More specifically, regarding project support for institutional development at the level of water user
organizations (US$ 7.2 million), this will be directed towards (i) the formulation and enactment of suitable
legislation under which sufficiently independent and autonomous water user entities can be formed to take
over, operate and maintain irrigation schemes on a sustainable basis; (ii) the formation and full legal,
institutional and physical establishment of the first such water user entities (WUFs) that would assume
responsibility for O&M at secondary systems level; (iii) the selective and participatory rehabilitation of
tertiary and secondary WUF infrastructure systems; (iv) the provision of needed maintenance equipment
and installations for the WUFs to maintain their systems; and (v) the execution of suitable and relevant
WUF management and systems O&M training programs.
27.   It is intended that early (pre-project) attention will be given to advancing the development of the
needed suitable legal framework. The defining of potential WUF areas within the main schemes, and
perhaps elsewhere if conditions are deemed to be favorable, followed by characterization of each of these in
- 36 -



terms of key parameters, is also expected to be undertaken as a pre-project activity. The key parameters
will include the status of existing WUCCs, and of tertiary and secondary systems, following completion of
previous project interventions, as well as other indicators relating to water sources, size of area, cropping
pattem and WUCC management performance, including water charge payments. The potential WUFs will
then be ranked in order of the level of success that could be expected from the proposed institutional
development program.
28.   With regard to the program itself, under the project, or starting earlier if possible, and in the order
of the WUFs ranking, the potential WUF members will be identified, convoked and met with to present and
discuss project philosophies, approaches and proposals, and to determiine willingness of stakeholders to
proceed. A formal canvassing of potential WUF members will be undertaken, and project interventions
will be able to proceed if there is a consenting majority. Three project intervention cycles are proposed,
each starting one year apart and each covering about three WUFs. Within each cycle, efforts will focus
initially on (i) legal and physical establishment of the WUFs; (ii) training in organization management and
administration, including financial and accounting aspects; (iii) helping with determination of technical
assistance, works, equipment and O&M training needs; and (iv) assistance with preparation of proposals
from the WUFs to the project for investment grants from the project, covering infrastructure rehabilitation
works and supply of maintenance equipment, in accordance with project criteria and rules. This will be
followed by review, negotiation, agreement and implementation of the proposals, and by execution of O&M
training programs.
29.   It is planned that the project WUFs will correspond to an overall area of up to 40,000 ha within the
main scheme areas. Within this, it is estimated and assumed that up to 22,000 ha will need infrastructure
(tertiary and/or secondary systems) rehabilitation works. The costs of such rehabilitation works under the
project, including corresponding design and supervision costs, will be maintained at a maximum of US$
250/ha applied to the tertiary systems rehabilitation area, or up to US$ 137.5/ha if applied to the total
WUF system area. The WUF rehabilitation works proposals and applications for supporting grants from
the project will detail and cost the proposed works and will include financing and implementation plans and
schedules. In formulating, reviewing and approving each proposal, due consideration will be given to (i)
the level of previous tertiary and secondary systems rehabilitation, (ii) the status of each intemal system
relative to others within the WUF area, and (iii) the overall status of the WUF infrastructure system
relative to the systems of other established or proposed WUFs. This is to ensure that project resources are
and will be directed towards rehabilitation of the most critical systems or system components. Also,
secondary system works will normally be given priority over tertiary system works where there is a similar
urgency, since the overall resulting water management benefits will normally be expected to be greater. Of
the total estimated cost, a maximum of 7% will be allocated to cover design and supervision, to be carried
out by the PIU either directly or through design and supervision contracts. The design process will
generate an Engineer's Estimate, to be agreed between the WIUFs and the PIU. Of this, or of the cost of the
works themselves, a minimum of 30% will be contributed by the WUFs. Two alternative approaches to
execution of WUF rehabilitation works have been formulated, as follows:
Civil Works Contract Approach. This approach comprises the contracting by WUF, with
assistance from PIU of a construction company to do the work. Prior to the signing of the contract, the
WUF will deposit with the PIU its expected full contribution, amounting to a minimum of 30% of the
contract value, less a 15% retention (equivalent to at least 4.5% of the contract value) to guarantee PIU and
contractor performance. The WUF contribution will then be adjusted following satisfactory completion of
the works, based on the actual value of these, and the balance due to either party will be paid within 30
days.
- 37 -



Goods and Services Contract plus Labor Approach. This approach includes the procurement
by the PIU of all construction materials and materials-related services, in accordance with an agreed work
plan and schedule, to a total value no greater than 70% of the Engineer's Estimate. The WUF will itself
execute the works either intemally or through arrangements with others. In this case, prior to the signing of
the first contract, the WUF will deposit with the PIU an amount equivalent to 10% of the Engineer's
Estimate, as a guarantee of performance and of correct usage of the supplied materials and services. The
deposit will then be returned to the WUF, adjusted if necessary, within 30 days following formal
acceptance by the PIU that the works have been satisfactorily completed.
30.   To further enhance the prospects for sustainability of WUF infrastructure systems into the future,
funding provisions are also made to cover the supply of essential maintenance equipment and installations
to the WUFs. An approved list of maintenance items will serve as the basis for WUF proposals and
applications for project grants to help cover the costs of purchase and delivery. During the proposal
formulation, review and approval process, the PIU will ensure that the requested items properly reflect the
technical nature and maintenance needs of the WUF infrastructure systems, and that due consideration has
been given to providing for equipment O&M, repair and protection needs. The total costs of essential
maintenance equipment and installations provided under the project will be maintained at a maximum of
US$ 25/ha applied to the total WUF system area (and not to just the rehabilitated tertiary systems area).
The WUF contributions to these costs will be set at 20% of the total value. Procurement will be effected
by the PIU. Prior to the signing of supply contracts the WUF will deposit with the PIU its expected full
contribution, amounting to 20% of the contract value, less a 25% retention (equivalent to 5% of the
contract value) as a guarantee of PIU and supplier performance. The balance of the contribution, adjusted
as may be appropriate, will be paid within 30 days of satisfactory delivery, installation and startup of the
equipment. Completion of maintenance equipment supply contracts is planned to occur at the same time as
completion of system rehabilitation works.
31.   At an earlier stage of WUF development, following the legal establishment of each WUF and the
selection, takeover and setup of suitable WUF office premises (to be provided by Government), the
provision under the project of basic office equipment and furniture, and a vehicle, is foreseen. At this time
also an initial training program, covering group management and administration including accounting and
financial control, will be held for the WUF office bearers and management staff. Later, towards the end of
the rehabilitation works period, and during and immediately following the delivery and setup of
maintenance equipment and installations, a second and more extensive training program will cover (i)
infrastructure systems management and O&M; (ii) O&M equipment and installations operation, care,
maintenance and repair; and (iii) water management planning and operation activities, including suitable
study tours for WUF managers to view similar O&M institutional set-ups and activities elsewhere.
32.   With regard to specific project support for the reforming and strengthening of the public O&M
agencies (US $2.4 million), this will be directed to the DIMA Enterprises, the WSA and the SCWM for (i)
the training of staff in management, work planning and budgeting, contracts procurement and supervision,
construction supervision and quality control, accounting and financial management, and computer use,
including workshops and study tours; (ii) the purchase of essential office equipment and furniture; (iii) the
provision of vehicles to ensure staff mobility for system monitoring and regular contact with water users;
and (iv), in the case of the DIMA Enterprises, two national consultants to be attached to each to guide the
redefinition and reform process. For the WSA, the resources provided under the project will complement
those provided under the DSP for the DME, which will become part of WSA. Similarly, the computer
equipment currently being procured under the IRP for OME will be taken over by the DIMA Enterprises,
who will be assuming the functions of OME, or by the DIMA Board, TCC and IWG, as needed.
- 38 -



Project Component 4 - US$1.77 million
Project Management and Design and Supervision of Tertiary Rehabilitation
33.   The existing PIU  responsible for the implementation of irrigation projects will assume
responsibility for overseeing and coordinating all IDP activities, under the leadership of the PIU's project
manager. As in the case of the IRP and DSP, project oversight will continue to be assumed by the Project
Management Board (PMB) headed by the Chairman, SCWM. One of the PIU's units, the Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit, will be responsible for monitoring project inputs, outputs and imnpact. Other units will be
responsible for project management, design, construction supervision, water management, procurement,
accounting and support functions.
34.   In determining the required level of IDP support for project management by the PIU, full account
was taken of already committed provisions under ongoing projects. Support provisions under the IDP will
therefore only cover the incremental requirements of the new project. The IRP will have been completed,
and therefore IRP consultant positions that are required for the IDP will be funded over the five years of the
project. DSP consultants will be in place for the first three years of the project. Some of the DSP
consultants will also take on IDP duties, and will be supported in this by extra consultants where needed.
Since heavy IDP workloads are foreseen for the fourth and fifth years, these DSP consultant positions will
be funded for those two years under the project. Other incremental project management costs to be met by
the project cover (i) an annual international financial audit; (ii) some extra vehicles, equipment, computers
and furniture, plus corresponding vehicle and office operations; and (iii) annual informnation sharing
workshops.
- 39 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ARMENIA: IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
L7ocal1       Foreign         Tota
Project Cost By  CompOnent                 US $million    U$miMonif     US $ml:lion
1. Rehabilitation of Critical Canal Structures                1.61          2.48          4.09
2. Conversion from Pump to Gravity Irrigation                 5.81          7.35         13.16
3. Institutional Development                                                              0.00
a) WUFs                                                      5.63          1.61          7.24
b) WSA/SCWM/DIMA                                             1.18          1.12          2.30
4. Project Management and Design and Supervision of Tertiary  1.41          0.26          1.67
Rehabilitation
5. PPF                                                        0.00          1.17          1.17
Total Baseline Cost                                          15.64         13.99         29.63
Physical Contingencies                                                                   0.00
Price Contingencies                                          0.59          0.60          1.19
Total Project Costs               16.23         14.59         30.82
Total Financing Required                16.23         14.59         30.82
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                  UJS $million    us $million    US $minlion
Civil Works (included materials for and WUFs own labor)       10.56           11.08        21.64
Equipment                                                      1.11           0.95           2.06
Consulting services                                            3.11            1.39          4.50
Incremental Operational Costs (WSA/DIMAslPIU)                  1.45           0.00           1.45
PPF                                                            0.00            1.17          1.17
Total Project Costs      16.23          14.59         30.82
Total Financing Required       16.23          14.59         30.82
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 30.82 (US$m). Thterefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 80.66% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 40 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
ARMENIA: IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The main expected benefit of the project is to improve the performances and the sustainability of irrigated
agriculture through:
1.    Mobilization of increased water flows through the widening of the Araks intake and reduction
of losses of water in the irrigation schemes by rehabilitating the most critical structures on the
primary and secondary canals. The widening of the Araks intake will allow the extraction of an
additional 106 million cubic meters of water annually from the Araks river (an increase from 250 million
cubic meters to 356 million cubic meters). Analysis of rehabilitation of critical structures proceed by first
measuring current water losses during several field inspections on each of the structures proposed for
repair. Inspectors have also been asked to evaluate the pace of deterioration if nothing is done in order to
evaluate the yearly increases in water losses in the without project situation. The latter has been quantified
as a percentage of increased water losses by 2% per year. It has been assumed that with project, the losses
would be reduced to 10% of the current level for canals with Q>2.5m3, and 5% for those under Q<2.5m3.
Two alternative methods were used in estimating the value of additional water mobilized and water saved.
The first method recognizes the current shortage of irrigation water for agriculture and values the marginal
volume of water saved by the project at the agricultural benefit it generates downstream, i.e. its net
economic agricultural benefit based on average cropping patterns and crop performances. The second
method looks at the value of a cubic meter of water lost in the without project scenario as the "economic
cost" of supplying that water. The economic cost was defined as the cost of operating, maintaining,
repairing and replacing the irrigation schemes. The "economic value" was found higher than the "economic
cost" of water, which would indicate that irrigation is economically viable under average Armenian
conditions. In order to keep a conservative approach, the second value (the cost), estimated at 12.7 Drams
per cubic meter, was used. It is about 40% lower than the economic value (see section below). Finally, an
incremental maintenance cost of about 2% of investment cost per year has been assumed to account for the
necessary increased care of the canals (to ensure their sustainability) as the maintenance is currently
neglected. After selection of the most critical structures to be rehabilitated, potential water savings have
been estimated at about 16 million cubic meters annually, representing a reduction in losses under the
project from about 73 million cubic meters to about 57 million cubic meters. These savings and the
additional extraction of 106 million cubic meters of water through the Araks intake have a value of roughly
US$ 4.3 million annually.
2.    Lowering the cost of irrigation on about 7,300 ha converting the current pump-based system
into gravity-based system. This would be achieved on 3 schemes selected amongst 26 schemes with
expected satisfactory economic results. The without project situation would lead to a progressive decrease
in irrigated areas, as infrastructure continues to deteriorate as it has over the past ten years. This process is
assumed to take 10 additional years (before the pumps malfunction) during which time, irrigated crops
would be replaced by rain-fed ones where possible (in two agro-ecological regions) or fallow when the low
rainfall does not allow any crop (the two main agro-ecological regions). With project, normal irrigated
agriculture would be maintained in the areas. An additional benefit to the system would be elimination of
consumption of about 48 million kwh (with economric value of roughly US$ 2.6 million annually).
-41 -



Irrigated and rain-fed crop yields and cropping patterns are assumed to remain similar to those practiced
today. Six sets of crop budgets have been developed on the basis of farm interviews in the four
representative agro-ecological zones covered by the project (two of them allowing rain-fed agriculture).
3.     Economics of Tertiary Rehabilitation.    The economic analysis of the interventions in
WUCC/WUF formation and tertiary rehabilitation count only the benefits from reduced water losses which
arise from physical rehabilitation of tertiary conveyance structures.  There are additional benefits
associated from improved and more timely operation of irrigation management at the tertiary level through
better organized water rotation schedules under WUCCs and WUFs, but these operational benefits are not
included in the analysis as they are difficult to quantify. The quantified benefits are the reduction of
physical loss rates from current levels of 50% on-farmn to only 10%. As the flow of water per hectare at the
tertiary level is roughly 6,500 cubic meters, the expected savings from tertiary rehabilitation are on the
order of 2,500 cubic meters. When evaluated at USS 0.035 per cubic meter, this yields net benefits per
year of roughly $80 per hectare. When set off against per hectare costs of US$ 350 per hectare (USS 250
of rehabilitation plus $ 100 per hectare on average for institutional investments in equipment and training),
the component yields an ERR of 24.5% (with an NPV of US$ 4.4 million on rehabilitation covering 22,000
hectares).
Main Assumptions:
Financial analysis
Crop Budgets
The crop budgets have been prepared on the basis of about 200 interviews with representative farmers in
the different zones included in the project area. Farm Gate prices at the time of project preparation have
been used. Four agro-ecological zones (Plain, pre-mountainous, high elevation and sub-tropical areas) were
differentiated, two of them (pre-mountainous, high elevations) allowing rain-fed cultivation. In addition, 3
specific models were prepared for the 30,300 ha facing drainage problems: with very high water table, high
water table and low water table, as well as two models for the area affected by salinity: saline land and"
normal" land. These crop budgets are available in the project file and are summarized in Table 1.
- 42 -



Table 1. Summa   of Crop Budgets
Yields               Gross Margins (*)
(tons per ha)             (US$ per ha)
Plain             Rainfed      Irrigated     Rainfed      Irrigated
Wheat                 -          2.84           -           326
Vegetables           -           22.0           -          2,012
Potato               -            14.0          -          2,164
Alfalfa              -            11.0          -           314
Fruits                            5.8           -           651
Grapes                            7.5           -          1,492
Hilly Area         Rainfed       Irrigated    Rainfed      Irrigated
Wheat                1.0          1.9          68           144
Vegetables           -           20.5           -          1,857
Potato               -            16.0          -          2,659
Alfalfa             3.0          10.0          76           243
Fruits                            4.2           -           414
Grapes                            5.0           -           901
Mountainous        Rainfed       Irrigated    Rainfed      Irrigated
Area
1.0          2.5          62           293
Wheat                 -           22.0           -          2,078
Vegetables            -          16.25          -           826
Potato               1.6          5.5          38           150
Alfalfa                           3.9           -           466
Fruits                _        =_                   _
Subtropical Area   Rainfed      Irrigated     Rainfed      Irrigated
Wheat                             2.1           -           188
Vegetables           -           20.0           -          1,739
Potato               -           13.0           -          1,952
Alfalfa                           8.0           -           198
Sub-trop Fruits      -            6.5           -          3,492
Grapes                            6.0           -          1,155
Zone under risk of  Saline Soil  Nornal Soils  Saline Soil  Normal Soils
salinization
Wheat               2.25          2.72         232           313
Vegetables          15.0         22.0         1,287        2,022
Potato              12.0         17.0         1,228        1,839
Alfalfa              5.5          11.0         73           324
Fruits              3.5           4.5          315          446
Grapes              3.0           5.6          422         1,035
(*) Gross income minus annual expenditures (family labor is not valued in financial tenns) Source:
Tables 6 to 11
- 43 -



Farm Models
Seven representative farm models have been prepared. They illustrate the impact of the separate
components on typical farms in the respective areas benefiting from these various activities. These models
are available in detail in the project file. The Four principal models are summarized in Table 2. These
models illustrate respectively the impact of: (i) lowering of the water table; (ii) decreased salinity; (iii)
restored full irrigation in conversion schemes in the plain; and (iv) restoring full irrigation in conversion
schemes in mountainous area.
Table 2. Representative Farm Models
Farm model 1  |Farm model 2      Farm model 3  Farm model 4
Situation                 Plain           Plain             Plain          Mountainous
Type of Improvement       Improved        Decreased Salinity  Conversion into  Conversion into
Drainage        (Araks Intake)    gravity        gravity
Irrigation     Irrigation
Size of the Farm (ha)     0.72            0.72              1.08           0.74
Number of People          5               5                 5              5
Labor Force Number        3               3                 3              3
Cropping Pattern without   Wheat: 0.28    Wheat: 0.17       Wheat: 0.24     Wheat: 0.37
project (ha)               Potato: 0.03   Vegetable: 0.08   Vegetable: 0.14  Vegetable: 0.02
Grape: 0       Gourds: 0.10      Potato: 0.03    Potato: 0.03
Vegetable: 0.11  Alfalfa: 0.25   Alfalfa: 0.12    Alfalfa: 0.30
Fruit: 0       Fruit: 0.06       Fruit: 0.10     Fruit: 0.03
Alfalfa: 0.30    Grape: 0.06     Grape: 0.09
Cropping Pattern with      Wheat: 0.24    Wheat: 0.17       Wheat: 0.35     Wheat: 0.36
project (ha)               Gourds: 0.03    Vegetable: 0.08  Vegetable: 0.20  Vegetable: 0.06
Grape: 0.09    Gourds: 0.10      Potato: 0.05    Potato: 0.07
Vegetable: 0.14  Alfalfa: 0.25   Alfalfa: 0.18    Alfalfa: 0.18
Fruit: 0.10    Fruit: 0.06       Fruit: 0.15     Fruit: 0.07
Alfalfa: 0.12    Grape: 0.06     Grape: 0.14
Net income per HH (US$):
w/o project
with project              390             329              663             157
% increase                664             573              993             348
+70%            +74%             +50%            +122%
Net income per ha (US$):
w/o project               542            457               615             212
with project             922              795              921             470
% increase               +70%            +74%              +50%            +122%
Return per Labor Day
(US$)                     10.4            6.5               9.3            11.6
w/o project              9.1             9.6               9.3            12.2
with project             -12%            +47%              0%             +5%
% increase
- 44 -



C. Financial and economic prices
Major financial and economic prices are shown in Table 3. Financial prices are farm gate prices at the time
of project preparation. Prior to economic analysis, these prices have been converted into economic prices,
which reflect the real values of inputs and outputs for the country. The major imported goods consist of
wheat and fertilizers. Their import parity prices have been calculated on the basis of intemational market
prices. No major difference could be identified between financial and economic prices (conversion factors
between 94% and 117%), which indicates no distortion (subsidies or duties) in the local formation of
market prices for these items. Other major agricultural products concemed with the project are mostly
marketed locally: vegetables, fruits, alfalfa locally consumed by livestock, and grape locally processed in
brandy. A conversion factor of 1 has been applied in these cases. Similarly, a conversion factor of 1 for
investment costs has been applied.
Table 3. Financial and Economic prices
Goods and services  Measurement unit      Financial  Economic price  Difference in
price    %_____
Materials and
services
Irrigation water           Im3/dram             5.82         12.7         218.2%
Energy                      kW/dramr            22.5         32.5          144.4%
Granozan                    kg/dram            3000          3000         100.0%
Baileton, cuprosan          kg/dram            6000          6000         100.0%
sulphur
Furacilin                   kg/dram            7000          7000         100.0%
Karate, baileton            kg/dram            8000          8000         100.0%
Kuprosan, baileton          kg/dram            8000          8000         100.0%
Baileton, karate            kg/dram            9000          9000         100.0%
Nitrogen fertilizers        kg/dram             80            80           100.0%
Transport services        ton/km/dram           400          400          100.0%
Combine services           hour/dram           2000          2000         100.0%
Tractor services           hour/dram           1000          1000         100.0%
Hired labor              man/day/dram          1500          1000          66.7%
Seeds and plants
Wheat                       kg/dram             120           120         100.0%
Vegetables               1000 plant/dram       2000          2000         100.0%
Potatoes                    kg/dram             120          120          100.0%
Gourds                      kg/dram            3750          3750         100.0%
Fodder                      kg/dram            1200          1200         100.0%
Fruits                     1 tree/dram          400          400          100.0%
Grapes                   1 cutting/dram         150          150          100.0%
Goods
Wheat                       kg/dram             90           105.7        117.4%
Straw                     bundle/dram          200           200          100.0%
Vegetables                  kg/dram            58.2          58.2         100.0%
Gourds                      kg/dram            66.7          66.7         100.0%
-45-



Potatoes                      kg/dram             123.4          123.4         100.0%
Fodder                        kg/dram              25             25           100.0%
Fruits                        kg/dram              82.8          82.8          100.0%
Grapes                        kg/dram             124.2          124.2         100.0%
Subtropical fruits            kg/dram             292.9         292.9          100.0%
Currency rate                  dram/$              500           500           100.0%
The economic cost of electricity has been estimated at 32.5 drams (US$ 0.065) per kwh, which corresponds
to the calculated price that the power supplier should charge the client in order to cover all its expenses.
The current price charged to consumers is about 18.3 drams (US$ 0.037), leading to a conversion factor of
177%. The economic cost of family labor has been valued at US$ 2 per day which corresponds to the
average price paid for unskilled labor in rural areas and in the construction sector.
Economic cost and economic value of irrigation water: economic justification of irrigation.
The current low water fee (less than 3 drams per m3) is far from reflecting the actual value of water. The
value of water can be assessed from two sides: its "economic cost" defined as the economic cost of bringing
one m3 of water for irrigation to a farmer's field; and its "economic value" as defined by the marginal
benefit from one m3 of water used in agricultural production.
Economic Cost of Water: In the context of the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, a business plan was
prepared for OME, as the basis for developing a plan for full recovery of O&M costs by the year 2006.
The cost was defined as the full operation and maintenance cost (valuing electricity at its actual cost) and
providing for replacement cost of the schemes. On that basis, the cost was estimated at 10.3 drains per m3
for gravity irrigation and 16.3 drams per m3 for pumped irrigation. This leads to a weighted average (60%
gravity; 40% pumped irrigation) of 12.7 drams (USS 0.025) per m3. This is about 3.3 times the current
level of the water fee.
Economic Value of Water. A very rough estimate of the marginal value of one cubic meter of irrigation
water was made in the four agro-ecological zones of the country respectively, taking into account average
yields and cropping patterns in these areas. The average incremental income per ha from irrigation in each
was estimated to range US$ 210-350. On average, the use of about 8,000 m3 per ha has been necessary to
produce this income. Therefore, the incremental value produced by one cubic meter ranges US$
0.026-0.044. This is about 1.0 to 1.75 times the above-calculated economic cost of water, which suggests
that irrigation is economically justified under Armenian conditions, even considering the currently
depressed cropping patterns and modest yields.
D. Economic analysis
Financial prices have been replaced by economic values in all crop budgets in order to use them in the
economic analysis of the project components. Separate analyses have been undertaken for the following
four project interventions: (i) rehabilitation of irrigation canals and structures; (ii) drainage rehabilitation;
(iii) conversion of pumped irrigation into gravity irrigation; and (iv) the intake on Araks River and the
Oktemberian main canal reconstruction. The first three interventions consist of a number of discrete
sub-projects (in different schemes) for which individual analyses have been undertaken in order to select
them (by eliminating those not economically viable) and rank them by economic efficiency. Subsequently,
the economic results (Economic Rate of Return and Net Present Values) of the selected interventions have
been aggregated by component and eventually for the entire project. For each of the four interventions, the
- 46 -



projections of the future situation were based on two scenarios, i.e. without project and with project
situations.
Economic Analysis of the Project as a Whole
All economic costs and benefits of the various components have been aggregated in order to assess the
overall efficiency of the project. In addition, all indirect costs (such management costs and costs of
institutional reforms) have been added to those directly linked with physical investments. The ERR of the
project is estimated at 24.8% and its NPV at US$ 17.1 million.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
A sensitivity analysis has been performed on the following parameters: (i) increase of costs by 30%; (ii)
decrease of benefits by 30%; (iii) delay by two years of implementation which would lead to a delay by 2
years in getting the benefits from the investments. The results are shown in Table 10.
Table 4 Sensitivity Analysis - ERR and NPV (using 10% discount factor)
Araks Intake    Conversion from  Tertiary Rehabilitation   Total Project
and         Pumping into     and Capacity Building
Structures   Gravity Irrigation    in WUCCs and WUFs
Base Case            27.5%            24.1%               24.5%              24.8%
US$ 3.7 m.      US$ 9.0 m.           US$ 4.4 m.        US$ 17.1 m.
Costs Increased by   19.5 %           16.7%                17.2%             17.3%
30%                US$ 2.5 m.       US$ 5.3 m.           US$ 2.7 m.       US$ 10.6 m.
Benefits Decreased   16.9%            14.4%                14.8%             15.0%
by 30%/            US$ 1.4 m.       US$ 2.6 m.           US$ 1.4 m.        US$ 5.4 m.
Two Year             16.7%            17.0%                19.5%             17.5%
Implementation     US$ 1.8 m.       US$ 5.3 m.          US$ 3.3 m.        US$ 10.4 m.
1 Delay
-47 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ARMENIA: IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Years Ending
Year 1| Year 2  | Year 3          Year 4  | Year 5  | Year6  | Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs             2.6         5.5        7.6         6.8        5.1         1.7       0.0
Recurrent Costs              0.2         0.3         0.3        0.3        0.3         0.1        0.0
Total Project Costs            2.8         5.8         7.9        7.1        5.4         1.8       0.0
Total Financing                2.8         5.8        7.9         7.1        5.4         1.8       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                    2.5         4-8         6.4        5.6        4.2        1.3         0.0
Govemment                   0-3         0.8         1.0        0.8         0-7       0.3         0O0
Central
Provincial
Co-financiers
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0         0.2         0.5        0.7        0.5        0.2         0.0
Others                      0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
Total Project Financing       2.8         5.8         7.9        7.1        5.4        1.8         0.0
Main assumptions:
-48 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ARMENIA: IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement
Procurement of works and goods would be conducted in accordance with the "Guidelines: Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997,
and January 1999)." The Borrower would use the Bank's standard bidding documents for goods and works,
including ECA regional sample documents for NCB and Minor works. Selection of consultants would be in
accordance with the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
(January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999)". For consulting assignments the Borrower
would use the relevant World Bank standard documents, including the standard Request for Proposals and
forms of contract.
Implementation Arrangements:
Project Implementation Unit and Assessment of its Capacitv to Conduct Procurement. There is a Project
Implementation Unit under the State Committee for Water Management. The responsibility for all
procurement issues will rest with the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) existing under the SCWM. A
formal assessment of the PIU procurement capacity was undertaken by the Bank in September of 2000 and
finalized in May of 2001. The PIU will be responsible for procurement, accounting, financial reporting and
auditing. The PIU has already served as Govermnent's PIU for three earlier IDA-financed projects and, as a
result, it has extensive experience managing projects in accordance with World Bank procurement
guidelines.
The Procurement Unit at the PIU is headed by a Senior Procurement Specialist, who is assisted by three
junior procurement engineers. Information regarding procurement administration would be collected and
recorded to serve as the basis for quarterly progress reports to be submitted to IDA. These reports should
indicate: (i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and for the total project; (ii) revised timing of
procurement actions and Project completion time; (iii) an updated procurement plan; and (iv) compliance
with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
The PIU will be responsible for (i) the whole cycle of procurement of all works, goods and services under
the project, including filing/record keeping of all related operations and activities; (ii) assisting SCWM to
prepare an annual work program and budget, which will be approved by the Bank; and (iii) coordinating
the delivery of technical assistance provided by local and international consultants.
Procurement Strengthening Action Plan:
The review of the PIUs procurement capacity addressed legal aspects, procurement cycle management,
organizations and functions, support and control systems, record keeping, staffing, general procurement
environment and made a general risk assessment of the PIU. The assessment found that the area of less
experience is the implementation of the procurement guidelines in terms of consultants' selection. The
review rated the project's risk with regard to procurement as average, with the possibility of moving to low.
The following reconunendations are advised:
i) During the first two years of project implementation the PAS for this project should participate in three
supervision missions. This frequency may change to once a year on an as needed basis. During supervision
missions the PAS for this project will allocate time for consultations with the staff on all practical
- 49 -



procurement cases, especially involving selection of consultants, and conduct a post review of contracts not
subject to Bank's prior review rules.
ii) The project launch workshop will devote adequate time to updating PIU staff on the latest Bank
decisions on procurement.
iii) A minimum of ten contracts representing different procurement methods (not subject to prior Bank
review) will be reviewed by the Project Procurement Accredited Staff on an ex-post basis during
supervision missions;
Procurement arrangements:
These are summarized in tables A and B. The Procurement Plan is presented in table C. Details are as
follows:
Participation of Government Owned Enterprises (GOEs) in procurement of goods and works. GOEs willing
to participate in procurement of works and goods financed by the Bank in this project should meet the
Bank's eligibility criteria: (i) if they are legally and financially autonomous, and (ii) if they operate under
commercial law. No dependent agency of the Borrower or Sub-Borrower under a Bank-financed project
shall be perrmitted to bid or submit a proposal for the procurement of goods or works under the project.
Interested GOEs should properly and timely clarify their status before participating in any bid under this
project.
Domestic Preference. The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic
contractors. For civil works contracts, qualifying domestic contractors or joint ventures of domestic finns,
with no more than 10% subcontracting to foreign firms will be eligible (joint ventures between foreign and
domestic firms will not qualify) for a 7.5 % domestic bidder preference under Intemational Competitive
Bidding procedures in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
Works:
Works are grouped into larger packages to the extent feasible to take advantage of geographical proximity
and implementation schedules.
International Competitive Bidding (ICB): contracts for works estimated to cost US$ 1.0 mln. equivalent
per contract or more would be procured through ICB.
National Competitive Bidding (NCB): works contracts using NCB procedures are justified by the
relatively small size and the remoteness of a number of tertiary irrigation rehabilitation works. These NCB
procedures will use standard Bank NCB documentation and will be used for contracts estimated to cost
below US$ 1.0 mln. and up to an aggregate amount of US$ 3.780 mln.
Small Works: Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association. Price will be fixed.
- 50 -



Goods:
International Competitive Bidding (ICB): ICB procedures would be used for contracts estimated to cost
US$100,000 and higher.
National Competitive Bidding (NCB): This method will be used for procurement of construction materials
to be used by the Water User Associations and Federations when they use their own labor to rehabilitate
Tertiary and Secondary systems. ECA Regional NCB documents will be used. It is estimated that the total
cost of NCB-procured contracts will reach $1.841 mln.
International Shopping: Goods estimated to cost not more than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $526,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of
the Guidelines. This method will be used mainly for procurement of vehicles and computers and other
office equipment.
National Shopping: Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $335,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Guidelines.
Procurementfrom UN Agencies:
As an alternative to the procurement procedures referred to as International Shopping above, procurement
of goods estimated to cost not more than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be arranged through the
Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO) of the United Nations Development Program (UNDP),
in accordance with paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Consultant Services: The proposed IDA Credit would finance (i) technical assistance and consulting
services for design work related to rehabilitation work and safety equipment installation, safety studies,
supervision of civil works, audit services; (ii) TA for design coordination and management and preparation
of technical specifications for civil works; and (iii) the services of international specialists to provide
advisory services to the PIU on construction and monitoring. The procurement of TA and consulting
services would be in conformity with the Bank's Consulting Guidelines. Procurement methods for
consulting packages are summarized below:
Quality and Cost Based Selection method (QCBS): will be used to contract out services for construction
design and supervision and complex training. For contracts estimated to cost less than $200,000 each, the
short-listing may be restricted to qualified eligible local consulting firmns and eligible design institutes.
Least Cost Selection (LCS): This method would be used for contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000
and would be for financial audit services up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $296,000 equivalent.
Selection based on Consultants' Qualification (CQ): CQ procedures would be used for contracts estimated
to cost less than $100,000 and would be for small construction design and supervision services on
secondary and tertiary system rehabilitation and for the preparation of an environmental manual and
environmental-related studies, with an estimated aggregated sum up to $218,000. For contracts estimated
to cost less than $100,000 each, the short-listing may be restricted to qualified eligible local consulting
firmns and eligible design institutes.
- 51 -



Individual Consultants: Individual consultants will be selected to provide a great variety of expertise for all
components, and also to reinforce the PIUs technical capabilities, on the basis of their qualifications for the
assignment basically by comparison of at least 3 CVs from potentially eligible candidates. Consultancy
positions, besides those management-related, estimated to cost more than $25,000 will be advertised.
Training: IDA credit would also finance some training activities, including study tours in the country and
abroad, under environmental and institutional reforms. These activities will be procured in accordance with
Bank Consultant Guidelines. A detailed training program will be submitted by the Borrower to IDA for its
prior approval.
Prior Review by IDA:
The following procurement documents will be subject to prior IDA review:
(i)    Goods and Civil Works: All ICB contracts for goods and works; the first contract for works and
the first contract for goods procured according to NCB; and the first contract for goods under IS
(Intemational Shopping) and first contract under NS (National Shopping).
(ii)    With regard to consultants' contracts, prior IDA review would be required for all the Terms of
Reference (TOR). Contracts with consulting firms estimated to cost more than US$ 200,000 would be
subject to IDA's prior review as per Paragraph 2 of Appendix I of the Consultant Guidelines. For
contracts estimated to cost between US$ 200,000 and IJS$100,000 IDA would be notified of the results of
the technical and financial evaluations. For contracts with individual consultants costing US$ 25,000 or
more, in addition to the TORs, the corresponding individual qualifications, experience and terms of
employment shall be furmished to the IDA for its prior review and approval.
All the works, goods and services contracts and contract items not subject to prior review would be subject
to ex-post review of one out of five contracts by the IDA on a random basis.
- 52 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procu'r,met Method
'Expsnditure Cat.egory             IC      -         NCB           Other          t F.    ToalCost
1. Works                               14.28             3.78            0.50           0.00         18.56
_________________________  (12.02)          (3.21)          (0.42)        (0.00)       (15.65)
2. Goods                                1.20             0.00            0.86           0.00         2.06
(0.96)           (0.00)          (0.69)         (0.00)       (1.65)
3. Services                             0.00             0.00            4.50           0.00         4.50
(0.00)           (0.00)          (4.02)        (0.00)        (4.02)
4. Operational Cost                     0.00              0.00           1.45           0.00         1.45
(0.00)           (0.00)          (0.55)        (0.00)        (0.55)
Construction Materials for and          0.00              1.85           0.00           1.23         3.08
own WUFs labor                         (0.00)            (1.85)         (0.00)         (0.00)       (1.85)
PPF                                     0.17             0.00            1.00           0.00         1.17
(0.17)           (0.00)          (0.97)         (0.00)       (1.14)
Total                               15.65             5.63            8.31           1.23        30.82
(13.15)           (5.06)          (6.65)        (0.00)       (24.86)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment
units.
- 53 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Seecin Mtod
Consultant Srie
ExpendEture LCategoly IQS    Q          B              Cter '                 T Lost1
A. Firms              2.32    0.00    0.00    0.30      0.22    0.00    0.00      2.84
(2.32)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.30)   (0.22)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (2.84)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00     1.66    0.00     1.66
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (1.18)  (0.00)   (1.18)
Total  2.32    0.00    0.00    0.30      0.22    1.66    0.00     4.50
_  (2.32)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.30)   (0.22)  (1.18)  (0.00)   (4.02)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
-54 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)              Method           . (US$ mllions)
1. Works
>1,000                   ICB                     14.28
<1,000                   NCB                     0.00
<50                     SW                      0.50
2. Goods
Equipment                       >100                    ICB                      1.20
<100                    NCB                     0.30
<100                     IS                     0.10
<50                     NS                      0.04
3. Services                     >100                    QCBS                     2.32
<100                     CQ
<50                     LCS
Individuals               0.19
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  18.93
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
This frequency should apply for the first year.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of.Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 55 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The proposed IDA Credit of US $24.86 million equivalent would be disbursed over a period of five years
and the expected closing date of the Credit would be March 31, 2007. It is estimated, based on experience
with ongoing IDA supported projects in Armenia, that the country's ability to implement the project over a
five-year period is reasonable, especially given that the PIU is well established and experienced, and that
many national design and construction companies are familiar with the requirements of similar IDA
supported projects. The allocation of the proceeds of the IDA Credit is summarized in table D.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
;  $7000i:00Expenditure ACategoryj00   00; Amoun u in  U*Smiglfion 0 j ;4CE;d Financing :Percentage  :    0: 0
(1)(a) Civil Works under Components 1      13.47                         85%
and 2
(1)(b) Civil Works under Component 3        1.44                         70%
(2) Materials for WUFs under                1.84          100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
Component 3                                               local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
80% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
(3)(a) Goods (WSA and DIMAs) under         0.56                          80%
Component 3
(3)(b) Equipment for WUFs under            0.94                          80%
Component 3
(4) Consultant Services for Technical      4.02          100% for foreign expenditures, 100% for
Assistance, Training and Design and                       local expenditures for firms, and 70% of
Supervision                                                 local expenditures for individuals
(5) Incremental Operating Costs of         0.55             80% of expenditures incurred until
WSA, DIMAs, and PIU (incl. audit)                              December 31, 2002, 60% of
expenditures incurred until December 31,
2003, 40% of expenditures incurred until
December 31, 2004, 20% of
expenditures incurred until December 31,
2005, and 0% thereafter.
(6) Refunding of PPF                        1.14                        100%
7) Unallocated                             0.90
Total Project Costs                        24.86
Total                                      24.86
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
The following disbursements would be made against certified Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), under
such terms and conditions as the IDA shall specify: (a) goods under contracts costing less than US$
100,000 each, but construction materials under contracts costing less than US$ 300,000; (b) works under
contracts costing less than US$ 1,000,000 each; (c) training and incremental operating costs; and (d)
services under contracts less than US$ 100,000 each for consulting firms, and less than US$ 25,000 each
for individual consultants. Supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained by the Borrower and
- 56 -



made available to the IDA during supervision. See the section below on the project's financial management
arrangements for more details on the project's auditing arrangements, including the audit of the SOEs, and
a consideration of a move to PMR-based disbursements.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Government would establish in a commercial
bank, acceptable to IDA, a Special Account (SA) to be operated by the PIU under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA. The IDA would, upon request, make an authorized allocation of US$ 2.5 million.
Applications for replenishment of the SA would be submitted monthly (or when 20% of the initial deposit
has been utilized, whichever occurs earlier). The replenishment application would be supported by the
necessary documentation, the SA bank statement and a reconciliation of this bank statement. See the
section below on the project's financial management arrangements for more details on the project's auditing
arrangements, including the audit of the SA.
Financial Management:
Financial Management Assessment. The PIU will be responsible for the financial management of
the project as well as the other projects under its implementation, being the Dam Safety Project and the
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project. The financial management arrangements of the PIU satisfy the minimum
requirements of the Bank. More specifically, the accounting staff have significant experience in general
accounting and Bank-specific financial management and disbursement matters and the PlU's financial
systems in terms of accounting procedures, accounting software and intemal controls are satisfactory.
Project Management Reports (PMRs) and Disbursements. Project management-oriented PMRs
will be used for project monitoring and supervision and the indicative formats of these were agreed upon
during project negotiations. However, the PIU does not have in place an adequate financial management
system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the
project (PMRs) as required by the Bank for PMR-based Disbursements. It was agreed during project
negotiations that the project implementing agency would produce PMRs showing the project's sources and
uses of funds by disbursement category (PMR IA), uses of funds by project activity (PMR IB) and the
project's Special Account Statement (PMR 1E) as well as the four procurement management reports
(PMRs 3A, 3B, 3C and 3D) from project effectiveness and use the period to December 31, 2002 to
familiarize itself further and refine the process by which it produces all other PMRs. Credit funds will
initially be disbursed on the basis of established procedures, including Statements of Expenditures (SOEs),
and a move to quarterly PMR-based disbursements will be considered once the PIU is familiar with the
project's monitoring aspects and is considered able to produce sufficiently timely and reliable PMRs.
Financial management issues. (i) Country financial management issues. The Bank conducted a
Country Financial Accountability Assessment in 1997 and concluded that the country-wide framework in
support of accounting and auditing is incomplete and still fonning. However, these risks have been
mitigated by the use of an experienced Project Implementation Unit (PIU) which currently manages the
Damn Safety Project and the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project and whose financial management
arrangements meet the Bank's minimum requirements. (ii) Banking sector. The Bank conducted a Financial
Sector Assessment (FSA) in May 2001 and is supervising an Enterprise Development Project in which a
credit line is operating through 12 participating commercial banks, and has concluded that the banking
sector in Armenia is weak and relatively vulnerable. Thus the PIU will be required to obtain the Bank's
consent for the commercial bank at which the Special Account will be located.
- 57 -



Audit Arrangements. The PIU's previous and current auditing arrangements and findings are
satisfactory to the Bank and it has been agreed that these audit arrangements will be extended to the IDP, to
include the IDP's project financial statements, SOEs (or PMRs if used as the basis of disbursement) and
Special Account. The audits are conducted by independent private auditors acceptable to the Bank, on
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and procured by the PIU through the Least-Cost Selection
procurement process. The annual audited financial statements will be provided to the Bank within six
months of the end of each year and also at the closing of the project. The contract for the audit will be
extended from year-to-year with the same auditor, subject to satisfactory performance. The cost of the
audit will be financed from the proceeds of the credit.
- 58 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ARMENIA: IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proiect Schedule                                   Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       24                           35
First Bank mission (identification)              05/02/98                     05/02/98
Appraisal mission departure                      03/01/2000                   04/28/2001
Negotiations                                     06/11/2001                   06/11/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    02/28/2002
Prepared by:
Preparation Team of the Project Implementation Unit for the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project under the
Ministry of Agriculture and now under the State Committee for Water Management
Preparation assistance:
PHRD TF027096-AM, TF025793
FAO/CP              Francois Dauphin - Agronomy
Michael Sandoz - Irrigation Engineering
Heli Perett - Social Assessment
Benoist Veillerette - Economics and Finance
Environmental Assessment - ECODIT
Social Assessment - SocioMeter
Institutional Assessment - Mark Svendsen, Jeffrey Brewer
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Mark Lundell                       Team Leader, Economics
Giuseppe Fantozzi                  Co-Team Leader, WUA Development
Salem Gafsi                       Consultant - Project Design
Ezedine Hadj-Mabrouk               Environmental Issues
Jose M. Martinez                   Procurement
Nilufar Egamberdi                  Social Assessment
Ranjan Ganguli                    Financial Management
Arusyak Alaverdyan                Financial Analysis of OME & new institutions
- 59 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ARMENIA: IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Final Draft Completed April 2001
B. Bank Staff Assessments
OME Business Plan 1999/2005 and Update for 2001/2007
Financial Management Assessment - July 20, 2001
C. Other
Ministry of Agriculture - Irrigation Development Project - Preparation Report - 2000
*Including electronic files
- 60 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ARMENIA: IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                               disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                        IBRD          IDA                          Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frm Revd
P057838        2001 JUDICIAL REFORM                                    0.00      11.40                            0.00      10.67       0.00       0.00
P065189       2001 SAC 4                                               0.00      50.00                            0.00      33.59     .14.36       0.00
P044829       2000 TRANSPORT                                           0.00      40.00                            0.00      34.88       -3.00      0.00
P057952       2000 SIF 11                                              0.00      20.00                            0.00      19.81      -0.58       0.00
P064879        1999 IRRIG DAM SAFETY                                  0o00       26.60                            0.00      20.74       3.82       0.00
P008276        1999 ELEC TRANSM & DISTR                                0.00      21.00                            0.00      1807       10.06       0.79
P057560        1999 TITLE REG                                          0.00       8.00                            0.00       5.09       2.22       0.00
P051026        1998 SATAC 2                                            0.00       5.00                            0.00       2.13       2.31       0.80
P008281        1998 EDUCATION                                          0 00      15,00                            0.00       4.02       2.93       0.00
P035805        1998 MUNDEVT                                            0.0       30.00                            0.00      19.33       6.41       0.00
P0358s6        1998 AGRREFSUPPORT                                      Q000      14.50                            0.00       2.61       1.37       0.00
P050140       1998 HEALTH                                              0.00      10,00                            0.00       4.67       4.24      0.00
P008279        1997 ENT DEVT                                           0.00      1675                             0.00       0.83       1.91       0.00
Total:        0.00     268.25                            0.00      176.43      17.35       1.58
ARMENIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                    Disbursed
IFC                                         IFC
FY Approval               Company                                   Loan    Equity       Quasi    Partic         Loan    Equity        Quasi    Partic
Total Portfolio:                  0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval              Company                                       Loan        Equity        Quasi        Partic
2000                     Hotel Armenia                                  0.00         3.60          0.00         0.00
Total Pending Commitment:                     0.00         3.60          0.00         0.00
- 61 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ARMENIA: IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Central     Low-
Armenia       Asia  income         Development dlamond
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                          3.8       475      2,417                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                      490       2,150       410
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                         1.9      1,022       988                        T
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                           0.2        0.1       1.9
Labor force (%)                                         -1.5        0.6       2.3      GNP                              Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                                 capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)    55
Urban population (% of total population)                 67         67         31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         73         69         60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                  15        22         77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                 3         8         43                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)         85                   54
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                       1         3         39
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)    90        100         96            -A     menia
Male                                                   88        101       102                    Low-income group
Female                                                 93         99        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999
Economic ratlos
GDP (US$ billions)                              ..         .        1 1.9     1.8
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                                      19.1      19.5 
Exports of goods and services/GDP                                  19.0      21.0                      Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                        -14.2      -9.3
Gross national savings/GDP                                         -4.8       3.1
Current account balance/GDP                                       -21.3     -16.6      Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                                               0.8       0.8                                   Investment
Total debtlGDP                                                     42.2      47.2       avings
Total debt service/exports                                          8.9      14.6
Present value of debt/GDP                                         29.9       30.7
Present value of debt/exports                                     120.5     126.9
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                            -3.2      7.2        3.3       5.6             -     Armenia
GNP per capita                                 -3.0      6.3        3.0       5.3                    Low-income group
Exports of goods and services                 -18.2     -0. 1      17.6      11.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                             In
Agriculture                                                        34.0      28.7
Industry                                                          30.8       32.6
Manufacturing                                                    21.9      23.0                               97   98   99
Services                                                          35.3       38.7    -10
Private consumption                                              103.6       98.5    -20
General government consumption                                     11.1      10.7              -GD                 GoP
Imports of goods and services                                     52.8       49.7
1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999      Growth of expors and Imports
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                                        12.6       1.3    60
Industry                                                            1.0       5.9    30
Manufacturing                                                    -2.7       5.2
Services                                                            5.6       3.0       -
Private consumption                                                4.3        0.4   -30
General government consumption                                     -2.4      -0.7
Gross domestic investment                                           5.0       1.1   -bO
Imports of goods and services                                      -4.4       0.1                  Exports     tImports
Gross national product                                             6.5        2.7
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. It data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete
- 62 -



Armeniia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                          4000
Consumer prices                                          ..       8.7       0.7
Implicit GDP deflator                                    ..      10.8       0.0    32,000
2.000
Govemment finance                                                                   1 ,000        *
(% of GDE, includes current grants)                                                    0 i                                 O---
Current revenue                                          ..      171       18.9              94   95   96   97   98    9
Current budget balance                                  1..        .2      -0.1            -GDP deflator - CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..       .        -4 3     -6.1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1979     1989       1998     1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                             ..                221       232     n0ox
Copper mineral, concentrate                    .        .         9
Molybdenum mineral, concentrate               ..        .         8                   
Manufactures                                   .        .       102         .
Total imports (cif)                              .        .       806       697     400
Food                                           .        .       201       129     20
Fuel and energy                                                 203
Capital goods                                  .                113        80       o        _             :      _
92   94   95   96   97   98   99
Export price index (1995=100)
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..                                             I Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       -
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989      1998      1999      CurentaccountbalancetoGDP
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services            .                        360      383 o
Imports of goods and services                            .,     1,000      919
Resource balance                                                 -640      -536    !
Net income                                                          0        5      1
Net curent transfers                                     ..       177       174
Current account balance                                  ..      -403     -307
Financing items (net)                                    ..       406      312
Changes in net reserves                         .        ..         4        -5    -25
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)          ..                292      305
Conversion rate (DEC, locaelUS)                                 504.5    535.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999                    -                   -  -
(USS millions)                                                                      Composition of 1998 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                     .        800      871
IBRD                                                   .         10        9                    G 45 A 10
IDA                                           .                293       352
Total debt service                                       ..        42        65              3
IBRD                                                              1        1                                     B: 293
IDA                                                    .         2         2
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                       ..         50      103         1).
Official creditors                                               85       97
Private creditors                                      .0                  0
Foreign direct investment                                      232        96
Portfolio equity                             ..       ..         ..        4190
World Bank program
Commitments                                  ..       ..        125       48    IA-IBRD                       E-Blateral
Disbursements                                ..       ..        43        66      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         ..       ..          0        0      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                     ..      ..        43        66
Interest payments                                     ..         2         3
Net transfers                                         ..        40        63
Development Economics                                                                                                9/7/2000
-63 -



- 64 -



IBRD 29596
44                       ~~~~~~~~T.oSToohr. -i                                                                                                                                                                        418
A,'                                                       F                 ;GEORGIA  ,S  -                                                                                                                                                -  - N
AZEREAIJAE                                                                                            A
RUS- AKA SAMICKREFTAN
t                                                                 R E P U BiC   O F A R M E N I A                                               f~ RESETO R
L     5   = R IYA;P;TS D4)6 K.                                                                                                      N A    S  s       REGION MAR, CAP TA
RA ISLAMIC  A S; S(= , .GE                         A
Se Mop f sdn Un/t cr Tbe   fi   R E PU B Ll C   Reserm4ir /                            h                             ,>,o  Zon9el/                     0         10         20         30         d0 Ml cs~REION MACI ROADAR [
o s mt                                    p  d                                               AnITot                       -      Un TsKOYE
f I sJubs of ans f mb), ? 70 JANO oTs  wTod4T                                                                                  p        Kq   /
or onK endDrseenent or   \                                                                       _                      <    egrfi            .   <_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EAY'S~  )o.o.r -
cor p                                                      REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ ,  4;   Z    RM       A N
040044400  Wow004                                          DAKI.,___ANADZOR____TURKEY__
o.poooIA, wok]A,                                                                                                                                                                                            RP,oIRA
00  1,                                                                                                          1                          Toloogelo,,~~~~K--l's
40    ~    oL                                                                                                                    6             ~ P4~                                      A                                                          4
44       -                                      45-~~~~kk.-,AZRAIA
/~~~
NATIONAL CAPITAL~MA   OA



