Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3568 AM
Development Credit Agreement
(Irrigation Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 6, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3568 AM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 6, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
Page  2
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.";
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"DIMA Enterprises" means the Drainage and Irrigation Management Agencies 
of the Borrower, established as autonomous regional or scheme-level operation and 
maintenance enterprises;
(b)
"Dram" means the lawful currency of the Borrower;
(c)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(d)
 "Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
(e)
"EMP" means the Environmental Management Plan for the Project, 
satisfactory to the Association, describing the environmental mitigation, monitoring 
and institutional measures for the Project;
(f)
"PIP" means the Project Implementation Plan for the carrying out of the 
Project prepared and adopted by the Borrower, as the same may be amended from time to 
time with the agreement of the Association;
(g)
"PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established by the Borrower 
by Decree No. 577, dated December 15, 1994, or any successor thereto, for purposes of 
Project management;
(h)
"Project Account" means the account to be opened by the Borrower in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 6.01 of this Agreement for purposes of 
making available its counterpart contribution to the financing of the Project;
(i) 
"Project Management Board" means the Project Management Board established 
by the Borrower by Decree No. 765, dated December 22, 1999, to provide policy guidance 
and oversight of Project implementation;
(j)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(k)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association and on behalf of the Borrower on June 14, 2001;
(l)
"SCWM" means the State Committee for Water Management of the Borrower 
Page  3
established by Decree No. 92, dated February 9, 2001;
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(n)
"Technical Consultative Commission" means the Technical Consultative 
Commission established by Order No. 406, dated December 26, 2000, under the SCWM, to 
assess system-wide operation and maintenance requirements for dams;
(o)
"WSA" means the Water Supply Agency of the Borrower to be established 
under the SCWM with responsibility for the operation and maintenance of all facilities 
supplying water from all major sources;
(p)
"WUFs" means the Water User Federations to be established as autonomous 
associations of water users for the purposes of gradual assumption of operation and 
maintenance of primary and secondary irrigation infrastructure; and
(q)  
"WUCCs" means Water User Consumer Cooperatives, autonomous groups of 
water users to which tertiary irrigation infrastructure has been transferred.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to nineteen million eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 19,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2007, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
Page  4
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June 1 and December 1 commencing December 1, 2011 and ending June 1, 2041. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 1, 2021 shall be one  
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years  
the level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to 
access the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
financial, administrative, engineering, irrigation and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02.  Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section 3.01 
Page  5
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) maintain the Project Account referred to in 
Section 6.01 of this Agreement, and shall replenish said account promptly every 
quarter with sufficient funds to enable the Borrower to meet its obligations under 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement for such period; (b) use the amount in said Project 
Account for financing the Borrower’s contribution to Project expenditures; and (c) 
ensure that sufficient annual allocations will be made in the Borrower’s budget for 
the Borrower’s counterpart contribution to the costs of the Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
an opinion on such financial statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
Page  6
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
December 31, 2002, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall have: (i) the records, accounts and 
financial statements of the WSA for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; and (ii) the balance sheets of each DIMA 
Enterprise for the calendar year ending December 31, 2001, audited not later than 
March 31, 2002, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
(b)
The Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, 
but in any case not later than six (6) months after the end of each fiscal year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements of the WSA referred to in paragraph (a) 
above for such year as so audited; (B) an opinion on such financial statements, 
records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and (ii) shall furnish to the 
Association: (A) certified copies of balance sheets of each DIMA Enterprise for the 
calendar year ending December 31, 2001, as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
balance sheets and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
(c)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
Page  7
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures, including but not 
limited to improvement of water management and distribution systems, to ensure that 
collected water charges shall cover not less than 33 percent of the operational and 
maintenance costs of the Borrower’s irrigation infrastructure (hereinafter referred to 
as "operational costs" for the purposes of this Section) by December 31, 2002; not 
less than 44 percent of the operational costs by December 31, 2003; not less than 56 
percent of the operational costs by December 31, 2004; not less than 70 percent by 
December 31, 2005; and not less than 85 percent by December 31, 2006.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the PIP shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated or waived without the Association’s prior consent.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has opened the Project 
Account in Drams in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association and has deposited 
into said Account an initial amount equivalent to $250,000.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Economy of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economy
1, Government House
Republic Square
Yerevan 375010
Republic of Armenia
Telex:
Facsimile:
243331 LADA SU
(3742) 151-154
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  8
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
By /s/ Arman Kirakossian
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Peter Nicholas
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the Credit
   % of
Allocated (Expressed
Expenditures
Category
in SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
(a) Works under
  10,730,000
85%
Parts A and B
of the Project
(b) Works under
   1,140,000
70%
Part C of the
Project
(2)
Materials for WUF-
   1,470,000
100% of foreign
executed construction
expenditures,
under Part C of the
100% of local
Project
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
80% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3)
(a) Goods for WSA
     450,000
80%
and DIMA Enterprises
under Part C of the
Project
(b) Equipment for
     750,000
80%
Page  9
WUFs under Part C
of the Project
(4)
Consultants' services
   3,200,000
100% of foreign
and training
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures for
consulting firms,
and 70% of local
expenditures for
individual consul-
tants
(5)
Incremental operating
      440,000
80% of expenditures
cost of the WSA, DIMA
incurred until
Enterprises and PIU,
December 31, 2002,
including audit costs
60% of expenditures
incurred until
December 31, 2003, 
40% of expenditures
incurred until
December 31, 2004,
20% of expenditures
incurred until
December 31, 2005
and 0% thereafter
(6)
Refunding of Project
       910,000
Amount due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
 710,000
TOTAL
    19,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term  "Incremental operating costs of the WSA, DIMA Enterprises, and 
PIU" means operating expenditures incurred by the WSA, DIMA Enterprises and PIU on 
account of management of Project implementation for communications, utilities, 
printing and publications, office rent, maintenance and supplies, office security 
systems, vehicle operation and maintenance, transportation and field trip expenses, 
and remuneration for support staff (excluding salaries of civil servants), and audits 
and such other expenditures as may be agreed upon by the Association.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (b) Category 3 (a) set forth in the table in paragraph A.1 of this Schedule 
until the Borrower shall have expanded the scope of the terms of reference of the 
Technical Consultative Commission to cover the regulation of tariffs for the whole 
irrigation and drainage system; and (c) Categories 1 (b), 2 and 3 (b) set forth in the 
table in paragraph A.1 of this Schedule until the Borrower shall have enacted the Law 
on Water Users Associations in substance satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) construction 
materials under contracts costing less than $300,000 equivalent each; (b) goods under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) works under contracts 
costing less than $1,000,000 equivalent each; (d) 
PCU’straining; (e) Incremental 
Operating Costs for the WSA, DIMA Enterprises and PIU; and (f) services costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms and $25,000 equivalent each for 
individual consultants, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  10
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. 
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; and 
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
Page  11
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraphs (a), (b) or 
(c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of Authorized allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the  
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the  
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
Page  12
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the  
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of  $5,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to contribute to improvements in the standard of 
living in rural Armenia through enhanced profitability and sustainability of irrigated 
infrastructure.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:  Rehabilitation of Critical Irrigation Infrastructure
1.
Rehabilitation of the most critically deteriorated higher-level irrigation 
system structures.  
2.
Capacity expansion of the Armavir irrigation scheme’s: (a) Araks river intake, 
including construction of sediment control facilities; (b) Hoktemberian main 
conveyance canal; and (c) Maisian secondary canal.
Part B:  Conversion from Pump to Gravity Irrigation
Reduction of reliance on high-cost energy-intensive irrigation by supporting the 
conversion of pump irrigation schemes to gravity irrigation schemes where clear 
technical and economic viability can be demonstrated.
Part C:  Institutional Development
Provision of technical assistance, training,  equipment and vehicles to support 
the institutional development of: (a) WUFs; (b) the DIMA Enterprises; and (c) the WSA.
Part D:
Project Management and Design and Supervision of Tertiary Rehabilitation
Provision of: (a) technical assistance for design and supervision of tertiary 
rehabilitation; (b) equipment; and (c) financing for: (i) incremental operating costs 
for the WSA, DIMA Enterprises and PIU, including audit services; (ii) training for 
formation of WUFs; and (iii) carrying out of monitoring and evaluation activities for 
the Project.
Page  13
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.  
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,780,000 equivalent; and (b) construction materials 
to be used by WUFs in the rehabilitation of secondary and tertiary irrigation systems 
using their own labor estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,841,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $526,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement from IAPSO
As an alternative to international shopping procedures under paragraph 2 above, 
goods may be procured through the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO) of 
the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  14
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
4.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $335,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and works procured in 
accordance with international competitive bidding procedures; and (ii) the first 
contract for works and the first contract for goods procured in accordance with 
national competitive bidding procedures, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b) 
With respect to: (i) the first contract procured in accordance with 
international shopping procedures; and (ii) the first contract procured in accordance 
with national shopping procedures, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of the contract procured under shopping, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Page  15
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for design and supervision of construction 
and for complex training under Parts A, B and C of the Project, estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Auditing services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for small construction design and supervision on secondary and tertiary 
system rehabilitation and for the preparation of an environmental manual and 
environmental studies under Part C of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  16
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(d)
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000; and (ii) each contract 
for the employment of individual consultants, estimated to cost less than the 
equivalent of $25,000, the terms of reference of the consulting firms and the 
individual consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in the PIP.
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain the PIU until completion of the Project, with staff, 
resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and assign to it 
responsibility for overall management of Project implementation and coordination, 
including:
(a) 
preparation of disbursement applications under the Credit;
(b) 
management of the Special Account referred to in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(c)
maintenance of records and accounts related to the Project and arranging 
for the audit thereof;
(d)
preparation of bidding documents and participation in administration of 
bidding procedures and of contracts under the Project; 
(e) 
preparation of quarterly progress reports and submission thereof to the 
Borrower and the Association not later than 30 days after the end of each quarter, the 
first such report to be furnished to the Association not later than April 30, 2002; 
and
(f)
management and supervision of all Project activities.
Page  17
3.
The Borrower shall maintain the Project Management Board until completion of the 
Project with composition and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Borrower through the PIU shall prepare and furnish to the Association by 
September 30 in each year, for its review and concurrence, an annual work program for 
the Project for the following calendar year,  including procurement and financing 
plans. 
5.
The Borrower shall ensure that all measures necessary for the carrying out of 
the EMP shall be taken in a timely manner and shall include adequate information on 
the carrying out of such measures in the progress reports referred to in paragraph 
2(e) of this Schedule.
6.
By March 31, 2002, the Borrower shall establish the WSA with structure, staff, 
resources, and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
7.
The Borrower shall allocate to SCWM annual budgets adequate to fully cover the 
subsidy mandated under the policy in effect and in conformity with the recommendations 
of the Technical Consultative Commission on operation and maintenance.
8.
The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the regional DIMA 
Enterprises will operate as autonomous agencies on the basis of annual work plans and 
associated budgets approved by the DIMA board.  This board will consist of the SCWM 
chairman and a representative from each regional DIMA Enterprise.
9.
The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that: (a) WUFs and 
WUCCs shall be solely responsible for the collection from their members of water 
charges as determined by the Borrower’s cost recovery plan; and (b) WUFs and WUCCs 
shall be free to collect membership fees in such amounts that will allow them to 
assume their responsibilities and meet their internal financial needs in the short-run 
while building a basis for financial viability in the long-run.
10.
The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that water fees 
collected by WUFs and WUCCs will be deposited in a scheme-level account in the name of 
the concerned DIMA Enterprise.
11.
The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the DIMA 
Enterprises will focus on the management of the operation and maintenance process, 
leaving the actual operation and maintenance tasks to be executed by private 
contractors in conformity with procurement procedures in effect.
12.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 31, 2004, a mid term report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by June 30, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
Page  18
