                                          Document of
                                      The WorldBank

                              FOROFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                                      Report No: 40171-AM




                                       PROJECTPAPER


                                             ONA


                     PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCINGCREDIT


     INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR3.3 MILLION(US$5.0MILLIONEQUIVALENT)


                                              TO


                              THE REPUBLICOF ARMENIA


                                           FOR THE


                          IRRIGATIONDEVELOPMENTPROJECT



                                         JULY 2,2007




SustainableDevelopmentDepartment
SouthCaucasus CountryUnit
EuropeandCentralAsia Region

This document has a restricted distributionandmaybeusedbyrecipients only inthe performance
o f their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.

                     CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                 (Exchange Rate Effective June 27,2007)

                     Currency Unit = Armenian Dram
                       AMD 345.4 = US$1
                         US$1.51 = SDR1

                             FISCALYEAR
                        January1     - December31

                 ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS
ADB     Asian Development Bank
AF      Additional Financing
AMD     Armenian Dram
ASRA    Accounting Standards of the Republic of Armenia
BEEP    BusinessEnvironment and Enterprise Performance Survey
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CB      Cost Benefit
CFAA    Country FinancialAccountability Assessment
CIS     Commonwealth o f IndependentStates
COC     Chamber of Control (Armenian SupremeAudit Institution)
CPAR    Country Procurement Assessment Review
DIMA    Drainage and IrrigationManagement Agencies
DOs     Development Objectives
DSP     DamSafety Project
EMP     Environmental Management Plan
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
FM      Financial Management
F M M   FinancialManagement Manual
FMR     Financial Management Report
FMS     Financial Management Specialist
I&D     Irrigationand Drainage
IDA     International Development Association
IDP     IrrigationDevelopment Project
IFAC    International Federation of Accountants
IFRs    InterimFinancialReports
ILO     International Labor Organization
IP      Implementation Progress
IPSAS   International Public Sector Accounting Standards
IRP     IrrigationRehabilitation Project
ISA     International Standardson Auditing
k w     Kilowatt
kwh     Kilowatt hour
MCC     Millennium Challenge Corporation

                                                                FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
        MOFE              Ministry of Finance and Economy
        O&M               Operation and Maintenance
        PFM               Public Financial Management
        PFS               Project Financial Statements
        PIU               Project ImplementationUnit
        PMB               ProjectManagement Board
        POI               Project Outcome Indicator
        PPF               ProjectPreparation Facility
        PRSC              Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
        SCWM              State Committee of Water Management
        SOE               Statement of Expenses
        W A S             Water Users Associations
        XDR               Special DrawingRights




                                      Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
                                    Country Director:     DonnaM.Dowsett-Coirolo
                                    Country Manager       Aristomene Varoudakis
                                     Sector Manager:      Juergen Voegele
                                  Task Team Leader:       Giuseppe Fantozzi




~



 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
 their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                                                                                                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                REPUBLICOFARMENIA
                       Additional Financingfor Irrigation DevelopmentProject

                                                               CONTENTS



      A Introduction
      B Backgroundand Rationalefor Additional Financing
        ..                  .................................................................................................................Page1
                                                                                                      .............................................   1
            Sector Background-The Long-Term National Program..........................................                                                1
            The IrrigationDevelopment Project (IDP)                             .................................................................     2
      C Proposed Changes
        .                             .......................................................................................................         3
      D Consistencywith CAS                                                                                                                           4
      E Appraisalof Scaled-up ProjectActivities
        ..                                  .................................................................................................
                                                                               .................................................................      4
            General .......................................................................................................................           4
            Economic Assessment ................................................................................................                      5
            Technical .................................................................................................................... 6
            Fiduciary.,...................................................................................................................            7
            Environmental ............................................................................................................ 9
            Social ........................................................................................................................          10
      F Expected Outcomes               ...................................................................................................          10
      G Benefits andRisks                                                                                                                            14
      H FinancialTerms andConditions for the AdditionalFinancing
        ...                           .....................................................................................................
                                                                                                                        ...........................  14


      ANNEXES


      ANNEX 1:ListofWUAs/Communities with RehabilitationWorks                                                              ......................... 15
      ANNEX 2: ProcurementPlan                     ........................................................................................          17
      ANNEX 3: FinancialManagementArrangements                                           ......................................................      23




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties.Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                             REPUBLICOFARMENIA
              AdditionalFinancingfor IrrigationDevelopmentProject

                         PROJECT PAPERDATA SHEET




Recipient: Republicof Armenia
Responsible agency: State Committee for Water Management




Current closing date: March31,2009


                                                                          oYes XNo
Havethese been approvedby Bankmanagement?                                 oYes   oNo

Revised project development objectives/outcomes [Ifapplicable]


Does the scaled-up or restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? NO If so,
click hereto indicatewhich one(s) [selection box like the one in the new ISR]
                               For Additional Financing
[ ] Loan   [ XI Credit  [ ] Grant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
       Total Bank financing inSDRm. (US$m.): 3.3 (5.0)
       Proposed terms: IDA with maturityof 20 years and grace periodof 10 years
                                FinancingPlan (US$m.)
                  Source                         Local         Foreign         Total
Recipient                                            0                            0
IDA                                               5.00                         5.00
Others (Water Users Associations)                 0.85                         0.85


A. Introduction

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to provide Additional
Financing in the amount o f US$5.0 million equivalent to the Republic o f Armenia for the
Irrigation Development Project (P055022, IDA Credit          3568-AM, US$24.9 million).           The
proposed Additional Financing would scale up some o f the IDP activities aimed at supporting
Water Users Associations (WUAs).

2.      Support to WUAs would be continuedthrough the grant program for the rehabilitationo f
tertiary systems (91 percent o f proposed additional financing proceeds), annual audits of the
WUAs, and limited training andtechnical assistance (9 percent o f proposed additional financing
proceeds).

3.      The rehabilitation grant scheme under the institutional development component o f the
Irrigation Development Project (IDP) financed about US$7.2 million for rehabilitation o f tertiary
canals under WUAs' management. Eighty-five percent o f this amount was financed with the
credit proceeds while 15 percent was financed by the WUAs as counterpart funding. Proposals
from rural communities worth an additional US$9 million could not be funded due to a lack o f
resources. The additional financing would partially cover this surplus demand with about US$5.4
million for the grant scheme. The Additional Financing would also support the annual audit o f
the WUAs (about US$0.3 million) and technical design and some limited training activities for
WUAs (US$O. 15million).

4.      The implementation arrangements for rehabilitating tertiary systems under WUA
management would be the same as those successfully tested under the IDP.

5.      Scaling up o f support to WUAs i s strategically important at this stage o f development o f
the sector as WUAs represent the core o f a more effective institutional set-up that has notably
improved, inrecent years, the sector's financial sustainability and efficiency.

6.
(PDO) o f the original project (see para. lo),
        The proposed activities are fully consistent with the Project Development Objective
                                                     which i s to enhance the profitability and
sustainability o f irrigated agriculture through: (i)
                                                   rehabilitation o f existing infrastructure at every
level (primary, secondary and tertiary) to minimize water losses; (ii)   construction o f conversion
schemes to reduce operational costs by reducing energy needs; and (iii)         improvement o f the
institutional set-up by restructuring the public agencies and establishing community-based
associations for irrigation and drainage (the WUAs). Specifically, the Additional Financing
supports the PDO's achievement through minimizing water losses at the tertiary level, and
through strengthening WUAs (see para. 12). By scaling up activities initiated under the IDP, the
impact o f the project would be further enhanced.

B. BackgroundandRationale for Additional Financing

Sector Background- TheLong-Term National Program

7.      Over the past decade, Armenia has achieved substantial progress in preventing the
deterioration of the irrigation and drainage system and in establishing a suitable policy and

institutional framework for the sustainable management o f the country's irrigation and drainage
(I&D)infrastructure.

8.       A long-term national program was conceived in the mid-1990s to support the
rehabilitationandrestructuringo f the irrigation and drainage system.The first phase o f this long-
term program consisted o f emergency interventions to secure continued operation.
Implementationo f this phase was initiated under the IrrigationRehabilitationProject (IRP), with
financial support from IDA.This was followed by the IDA-supportedDamSafety Project (DSP),
and the Irrigation Dam Safety Project I1 (IDSP II), are expected to conclude the
                                                              which
emergency intervention phase.

9.       The second phase o f the long-term program was the restructuring and development phase
with a focus onbuildinga solid basis for system sustainability. This objective was intendedto be
achieved through Mher rehabilitation o f critical structures, reduction o f energy usage in the
system and empowerment o f stakeholders in carrying on operation and maintenance o f the
system. This second phasewas initiated by the Irrigation Development Project Stage I(IDP) that
was intended to be followed by a Stage 11. However, in consultation with the Government and
other donors, IDA decided not to proceed with preparation o f a Stage I1project, because other
sources o f support have materialized. Specifically, the U.S. Millennium Challenge Corporation
(MCC) has signed a compact with the Government o f Armenia, which will provide about
US$100 million for irrigationworks. Also, Armenia has recentlyjoined the Asian Development
Bank,which is also exploringthe possibilityof supporting this sector. To provide bridge support
while the activities o f others are getting underway, inparticular to ensure no loss o f momentum
in support of the WUAs, further limited IDA assistancethrough the present additional financing
proposali s important.

TheIrrigation Development Project (IDP)

10.      The Project Development Objective o f the ongoing IDP project i s to enhance the
profitability and sustainability o f irrigated agriculture through: (i)
                                                                      completing priority irrigation
works to minimize water losses, (ii)lowering the overall energy costs through converting
pumping systems to gravity systems, and (iii)        restructuring and strengthening the irrigation
institutions. Some o f the key measures o f results include the number o f WUAs established, the
cost-recovery rate o f Operation and Maintenance (O&M) expenses, the number o f hectares
irrigated, and the amount o freductioninenergy costs and water losses.

11.     The IDP has been a fully successful project. About 95 percent o f the IDA credit has been
disbursed and virtually all the rest committed. Since its launch in December 2001, the IDP has
been the primary force for policy, institutional, and technical improvements in Armenia's
irrigation sector, recognized as such by both the government and all interested donors. IDP
reached the following achievements, some of them foreseen by the original project documents,
some others added duringits implementation:

    Outputs and results have been quite strong and confirm that the IDP's impact has been
    consistent with all the targets set out in the Project Appraisal Document. In many cases,
    outputs and results exceeded those foreseen by the original project documents. On the
    institutional side, the Government decided to roll out the Water Users Association (WUA)


                                                   2

     pilot nationwide, and so the number o f WUAs was notjust 8-10 as described inthe PAD, but
     52 covering all irrigated landinArmenia. The amount o f irrigated landhas increased, while
     measures for reducing energy and water losses have also been met. There i s also strong
     anecdotal evidence that more regular and predictable water flows have strengthened crop
     yields and growing patterns.

     Inthe case of the cost recovery rate target, the PAD had established an overly ambitious
     target o f achieving 100 percent cost recovery. This i s a target that very few countries have
     achieved in this sector and did not reflect the dilapidated situation o f much o f the country's
     irrigation infrastructure at the start o f the project. In 2005, the team revised this to a more
     realistic target, increasing cost recovery from 8 percent to 47 percent by the end o f the
     project. This i s an average rate, which will be higher in areas where rehabilitation has taken
     place and WUAs are fully established, and lower inareas where significant investments have
     not yet been made and/or where W A Sare less experienced. An overall cost-recovery rate of
     42 percent had been achieved by 2006. This positive achievement stems from the fact that
     financial costs o f O&M went down from 8.7 billion drams in2004 to about 7.8 billion drams
     in 2006 (thanks to the decrease in used energy), and, at the same time, collected water
     charges went up from about 700,000 drams in2003 to 3.3 billion drams in2006. The current
     additional financing will provide two more years to improve further this achievement.

     The ISRratings from the project's start, and including the most recent 12-monthperiod, have
     always been "satisfactory" or better, for both Implementation Progress .(IP) and Development
     Objectives (DOs).

     Theproject has no unresolvedfiduciary, environmental or any other safeguardproblems.

C. ProposedChanges

12.      Supported activities and the PDO. The Additional Financing aims at scaling up activities
o f the Institutional Development component o f the on-going Irrigation Development Project. It
would mainly expand support to rehabilitation o f the tertiary irrigation system with co-financing
from WUAs, but will also provide for W A S 'annual audits and limited technical assistance
(TA) andtraining. Thiswill help to: (i)    minimize water losses at the tertiary level, where they are
the highest; and (ii)  improve institutional capacity at the grassroots level (WAS)and establish a
reliable funding mechanism that will prevent future deterioration o f the water conveyance
infrastructure. No changes inthe Project Development Objective, design, or scope are envisaged.
Some changes are clearly expected at the outcome level.

13.      Implementationperiod. Implementation o f the additional activities under the project i s
expected to take two years. On that basis, the original credit closing date for the IDP was
extended from March 31, 2007 to March 31, 2009, to allow implementation o f the proposed
activities.

14.      Implementation entity. All current institutional arrangements will remain inplace. Project
management will be the responsibility o f the existing very competent and highly effective PIU,
in charge not only of the IDP, but also the Dam Safety Project (Closing Date December 31,
                                                                                      -


                                                    3

2008) and the Irrigation Dam Safety Project 2 (Closing Date - March 31, 2009). Project
coordination and oversight will be provided by the Project Management Board (PMB), which i s
already in place and operational. The PIU will coordinate all project activities and will be
responsible for all design, procurement, supervision, and financial control related matters. The
PIU activities will be based on detailed annual work plans and associated budgets to be agreed
with IDA at the onset of each project year. The PIU will be responsible for contracting out all
project-fundedrehabilitationactivities.

D. Consistencywith CAS

 15.    The most recent CAS (June 10, 2004) was designed to support Armenia's PRSP, which
places major emphasis on reducing rural poverty. The proposed Additional Financing i s fully
consistent with this objective. The approach o f scaling up the IDP over the next two years was
discussed inthe CAS Progress Report, (reviewed by the Board on March 8,2007).

E. Appraisalof Scaled-up Project Activities

General

16.     Scaled-up project activities under the additional financing would aim to cover part o f the
surplus W A S 'demand for participation in the rehabilitation grant scheme that was established
under the IDP (about US$5.4 million). Inaddition, the credit would support the annual audits of
the associations (about US$0.3 million), revision o f technical designs and some limited training
activities for W A S(about US$O.15 Million). The credit will finance 85 percent o f rehabilitation
works and 100percent o f the technical assistance and training activities.

                                  Allocation of Credit Proceeds
             ICategory           Amount of the Financing     Percentage of
                                 Allocated (SDR)             Expenditures to be
                                                             Financed
                                                             (Inclusive of Taxes)
                                 3,850,000                   85%

              (2) Consultants'   150,000                     100%
              Services and
              Training

              (3) Refundof       1,000,000                   Amount payable pursuant
              Project                                        to Section 2.07 o fthe
              Preparation                                    General Conditions
              Advance




17.     Rehabilitation Grant Scheme. It was decided that the project could finance proposals
totaling up to US$4.9 million plus contingencies (5 percent financial plus 5 percent physical, for
a total o f US$5.4 million). More than 60 proposals were submittedby the WAS,totaling about



                                                4

US$9 million, all o f which involved a single village or community and a single scheme. No
proposals were submitted that involved more than one village or more than one scheme, which
was expected since this rehabilitation grant scheme aims at tertiary canals only. Of the 60+
proposals, 42 proposals (totaling about US$6 million before contingencies) were selected based
on the readiness o f designs and the immediate availability o f counterpart financing from W A S .
This list was reduced to 37 schemes and US$4.9 million before contingencies based on (i)          the
availability o f other funds (MCC took over 3 o f the 42 proposals in the first list) and (ii)     an
analysis o f economic returns.

18.     Therefore, the list o f the rehabilitation proposals includes 37 schemes for which all
conditions have been met. The average size o f the financed rehabilitation interventions i s about
US$ 145,000. The average ERR i s about 35 percent. The rehabilitation works for these 37
schemes have been consolidated into 29 contracts. Further reduction in the number o f contracts
i s not possible due to the fact that often these are limited construction activities scattered over a
large territory, and some communities need more time to provide counterpart financing than do
others. A Project Preparation Finance (PPF) Facility i s being used for preparation and initial
implementation, to ensurethat the scaled up activities become operational ina timely manner.


Economic Assessment

19.     Data collection. Information required for a sound economic analysis was obtained
through visits to W A S . Data collected for completing the economic analysis included the
number o f hectares under irrigation from any particular tertiary canal under consideration,
amount o f water supplied through the canal, amount o f electricity consumed, etc. Consultations
with design engineers were held in order to obtain indications o f costs for the proposed
investments and any additional recurrent costs/savings inthe "with the project" scenario.

20.     Analysis. Having completed the data collection, the incremental costs and returns were
determined and Economic Rates o f Return (ERRS)calculated based on the "with-project'' and
"without-project" scenarios.

21.     Methodology. The methodology used for determinationo f economic feasibility was based
on a comparison o f the costs o f investments and the benefits o f rehabilitation to farmers. The
following procedures were used:

         Calculation of costs. The main components o f the costs are rehabilitation investment
        costs and water prices. Rehabilitationinvestment costs providedby W A Swere analyzed
        bydesign engineers ofthe PIU. While conductingthe financial analysis, water costs were
        assumed to be zero. However, for the economic analysis, marginal costing for water was
        used.

         Calculation of benefits. Proposed civil works are for rehabilitation activities only.
        Expected effects are mainly provision o f more timely and adequate irrigation water to
        distressed areas and some minor improvements in irrigation methods from pumping to
        gravity. Expansioninirrigation areas and any changes incrop patterns are not assumed.




                                                  5

22.     Main assumptions. The total area under consideration i s close to 10,500 hectares. This
area i s currently irrigated but with considerable wastage o f water. If the current situation i s
maintained, i.e., "without the project", there will be annual increases in water losses and an
electricity consumption. After rehabilitation, both water losses and energy consumption will be
minimized.

23.     Financial and economic prices. The coefficient o f conversion applied to the investment
inthe analyses is equal to one. The primecost of one cubic meter of water in2006 was equal to
19.38 AMD (US$0.054). The average cost o f one kwh o f electricity was 23.86 AMD
(US$0.066). The exchange rate used in the analyses was US$1 equal to 363.46 AMD (January
31,2007).

24.     O MExpenses after rehabilitation. Adequate operation and maintenance (O&M) o f the
irrigation systems after rehabilitation i s expected to require 2 percent o f incremental capital
expenditure per annum. This i s assessed to be within the financial capacity o f the Government
andW A Sto meet.

25.     Project benefits. Agriculture without irrigation i s not possible on the territory under
consideration. The expected benefits o frehabilitation works are listedbelow.
      Water leakages from the old (deteriorated) canals will be minimized, thus enabling more
      efficient irrigation ofthe same area.
      The amount o f electricityneededto pumpwater will bereduced as leakages are reduced.
      Agricultural productivity and farming incomes will increase, due to the elimination o f
      water supply disruptions.
      The cost o f labor and machinery will decrease as a result o f increased water conveyance
      andapplicationefficiencies.
      Irrigation water will be distributed more fairly, so conflicts between farmers and the WUA
      will bereduced.
      The collection of water fees i s also expected to improve.

26.     A summaryofthe economic analysis byWUAs and communitiesis providedinAnnex 1.

Technical

27.     IDA reviewed all proposals for rehabilitationof tertiary irrigation systems presented by
W A Sin Ararat, Yerevan, Armavir, Gegharkounik, Aragatsotn and Kotaik. The technical
solution for rehabilitation o f those tertiary systems consists mainly o f replacing the existing
dilapidated concrete lining with new precast parabolic concrete sections (canalets) or with steel
pipes whenever adequate pressure i s available and permits the use o f pipes. In some cases, the
technical solution i s to install these canalets or steel pipes on existing earth channels to reduce
water losses, save energy (for pumpedwater) and reduce maintenance requirements.

28.     It was determined that the above design approach is commonly and successfully used in
Armenia, i s the one the farmers and WUAs are used to and comfortable with, and i s sufficiently
cost effective. Also, there i s a well-established industry in the country for manufacturing



                                                  6

concrete canalets inthree sizes: LP40, LP60 and LP80, with depths o f 40 cm, 60 cm and 80 cm
respectively. Finally, there i s good construction experience with this type o f canal and local
capacity for maintenance o f such irrigation systems i s available inthe areas o f WUAs.

29.    All the proposals for rehabilitation of W A Stertiary systems were found satisfactory
from the technical point o f view. The final list consists o f 37 proposals with a total cost o f about
US$5.4 million. The following table shows the number o f schemes and cost for each WUA
regionunder the Additional Financing.




      No.       WUAs Region                      No. of Proposals        Estimated Cost
                                                                         US%
      1         Ararat                           11                            1,655,607
      2         Yerevan                          1                              85.080




Fiduciary

   Procurement

30.    Procurement capacity. The existing Project ImplementationUnit (PIU) has been assessed
for carrying out the procurement function under the Additional Financing. It has a Procurement
Department with two procurement specialists and a procurement assistant, all o f whom are
experienced with IDA procurement policies and procedures because o f their involvement in
other projects. The civil works under the National Competitive Bidding(NCB) tenderingshall be
processed jointly with WUAs as under IDP. It has been agreed with the Government to
implement an action plan aimed at further strengthening WUAs' and the PIU's capacity as
detailed inthe paragraph below.

31.    Action plan for further strengthening W A S 'and PIU's capacity to implement project
procurement. The following actions would be taken to strengthen the procurement capacity o f
the W A Sand the PIU: (i)      hold a training workshop (procured using NCB procedures) with
WUA representatives as part ofthe project implementation and capacity buildinginitiatives; and
(ii)provide the deputy PIU procurement head with the opportunity to attend intensive
procurement training, such as the course offered by the ILO in Turin, to be financed by the
proceeds of the Irrigation Dam Safety Project I1or the Dam Safety Project (both projects are
implemented by the same PIU). In addition, IDA would continue to carry out periodic ex-post
reviews o f 1in5 contracts duringproject supervision.

32.    Procurement Plan and general information. A procurement plan, dated June 25,2007 has
been prepared and agreed (Annex 2) and will be updated from time to time (no later than twelve



                                                  7

months after the date o f the preceding Procurement Plan) by the PIU in accordance with
paragraph 1.16 o f the World Bank Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 ("Procurement Guidelines"),
and paragraph 1.24 of the World Bank Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006
("Consultant Guidelines"). A draft General Procurement Notice has been prepared and will be
published in July 2007. All other relevant information on procurement o f works and consultants
(no procurement o f goods i s foreseen under the AF) i s provided inthe two sections below.

       Civil Works

(i)    Procurement andprior review thresholds: Procurement decisions subject to Prior Review
       by IDAare as statedbelow andinAppendix 1to the Procurement Guidelines.

       Procurement                   Procurement Threshold    Prior/post Review
       Method
    1. ICB                           > $100,000 (Goods)       All subject to prior review
                                     >$1,000,000 (works)
    2. N C B (works)                < $1,000,000              Firstone subject to prior review
    3. Shopping                     < $100,000                All subject to postreview
   4. Direct Contracting*           Any amount                All subject to prior review



(ii)   Pre-qualifcation. Given the small size o f works under this Additional Financing, no pre-
       qualification i s envisaged.

       Consultants

(i)    Selection and Prior Review Threshold: Selection decisions subject to Prior Review by
       IDAare as statedbelow andinAppendix 1to the Consultant Guidelines.

         Selection Method                      Selection Threshold    Prior/post Review
    1. QCBS (Firms)                            >$100,000              All subject to prior review
    3.   LCS (Firms)                           Any amount for         All subject to prior review
                                               Audit contracts
    4.   CQ (Firms)                            <$100,000              Firstcontract subject to prior
                                                                      review
    5.   Individual Consultants (IC)           -                      Above $50,000
    6.   Single Source (Firms and              Any amount             All subject to prior review
         Individuals)   *
        * allContracts subject tojustification


(ii)   Short list of national consultants: A short list o f consultants for services, estimated to
       cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national




                                                      8

        consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant
        Guidelines.

     Financial Management

33.     Institutional and implementation arrangements. The PIU has been responsible for the
implementation o f the IDP and has already established a successful track record o f effective and
sound handlingo f fiduciary requirements. The Financial Department o f the PIU was reviewedby
an IDA-accredited Financial Management Specialist (FMS) who concluded that it has adequate
and competent staff and a satisfactory accounting system. However, it was agreed that the PIU
could strengthen further its financial management capacity by updating the Financial
Management Manual (FMM). This will be completed by the PIU Chief Accountant before or
soon after project effectiveness under the supervision o f IDA FinancialManagement staff.

34.     Critical Risks and Possible Controversial Aspects. According to the latest Doing
Business Survey in 2007, Armenia was the top-rated CIS country and scored well worldwide
(34'h out o f 175 countries). At the same time, according to the recent Business Environment and
Enterprise Performance Survey (BEEP) report, about 30 percent o f businesses indicate that
corruption i s still an impediment to doing business. Adequate mitigation measures will be
incorporated in the project, and IDA staff will closely monitor performance during
implementation. These mitigation measures will include (i)     maintenance o f a suitable formal
internal control framework, to be described in the updated Finance Management Manual; (ii)
enforcement o f a flow-of-funds mechanism that has been agreed with the Recipient; (iii)    audits
o f the project financial statements by independent auditors and on terms acceptable to IDA;
(iv) regular financial management supervision and procurement prior and post reviews; and
(v) monitoring o f improved procedures by the PIU to improve the quality o f civil works (for
rehabilitation o f tertiary canals) and increase contractor accountability. Active beneficiary
participation in the W A Swill also contribute to transparency and accountability in the use o f
project resources.

35.     Credit conditions relating to jnancial management. The Recipient shall maintain a
financial management system acceptable to IDA. The project financial statements, Statements o f
Expense (SOEs) and Designated Account Statements will be audited by independent auditors
and on terms of reference acceptable to IDA. The annual audited statements and audit report
will beprovidedto IDAwithin six months o fthe end o f each fiscal year.

36.     A detailed report on financialmanagement arrangements canbe found inAnnex 3.

Environmental

37.     The proposed activities do not require a change in the environmental classification o f the
project (category B) or trigger any new safeguard policies, nor do they involve any exceptions to
Bankpolicies.The rehabilitationo ftertiary channels will not affect new areas or expand existing
infrastructure.




                                                9

38.     The IDA team visited the locations o f eight tertiary channel investments proposed under
the additional financing to assess any possible environmental impacts related to civil works. The
specific locations (Ajgavan Village; Ghoukasavan Village; NorashenVillage; Ptghunk, Mousaler
and Arevshat Communities; Aknalitch Village; and Norakert Village-Etchmiadzin City) were
selected based on a technical review o f tertiary system rehabilitations for which designs are fully
completed. The proposed rehabilitation works were mostly located outside of these villages and
no land/property rights issues were noted. A couple o f civil works contracts will be implemented
within the village territory but the designs will follow adequate construction standards and
specific mitigation activities andmonitoring actions will be includedinthe biddingdocuments.

39.     The original Environmental Management Plan (EMP) prepared for the IDP has been
revised slightly to describe mitigation methods and monitoring activities for the proposed civil
works to be implemented under the additional financing.           The revised EMP was publicly
disclosed in the local newspaper "Hayastani Hanrapetutyun" on April 28, 2007 thus meeting
IDA'Soperational policy on public disclosure. This EMP was prepared in such a manner that
environmental requirements (mitigation measures and monitoring, and technical specifications)
related to the construction phase can be incorporated in the biddingcontract documents. The
EMP will be implemented and monitored during the construction phase by the contractor, the
WUA representatives, andthe PIU.

Social

40.     It has been ensured that all rehabilitation proposals included in the list have been
approved by the WUA General Assembly, therefore represent a fair and participatory choice by
the communities involved. There i s no evidence that any o f the selected rehabilitationproposals
could lead to any kind o f conflict or social tension or could generate phenomena o f social
exclusion. Acquisition o f landi s not anticipated.

F. ExpectedOutcomes

41.    The IDP has been highly successful to date in transforming the irrigation and drainage
sector in Armenia, resulting in an increased overall irrigation area, reduced water wastage and
energy costs, and strengthened community involvement. However, the outcome indicators have
shifted significantly over the implementation period in recognition o f evolving events, realism,
and the need for clarity in measurement. The most significant o f the indicators and how they
have shifted over time are as follows:

       Increase in irrigated area. The increase in irrigated land was not an original explicit
       target, and the volume o f irrigated land was heavily overestimated at IDP appraisal at
        190,000 ha. Based on mapping done under the project, in 2004 it was possible for the
       first time to make a precise calculation o f the irrigated land in Armenia, which was
        112,300 hectares. This has increased to 128,600 ha in2006.

       Introduction of participatory approaches. The project originally sought to pilot about 8-
        10 Water User Associations for a total o f 40,000 hectares. However, after the project
       began, the Government decided to roll out this approach nationwide with a proper legal



                                                 10

       and regulatory framework, and 52 WUAs were established covering all irrigated area in
       Armenia in 2003 and 2004. The project thus exceeded by far the specific institution-
       buildingobjective foreseen at appraisal.

       Reduction in energy used and water losses. The project set a target to reduce energy
       consumptionby converting 7,300 ha from a pump to gravity systems and to save 60 cubic
       meters o f water loss per annum. These targets have largely remained unchanged and
       have been met. The amount o f energy usage saved i s about 51 million kw/year (48.0
       through construction o f conversion schemes and 2.9 through rehabilitationworks) and i s
       inline with original project objectives. At a current economic value of US 6.6 cents per
       Kwh, this feature alone provides $3.4 million in annual benefits to the Armenian
       economy. The amount o f estimated reduction in water losses i s about 65 million cubic
       meters per annum and i s inline with the original project objective.

       Improvement in cost-recovery rate of O&M expenses of the system. At the time o f
       appraisal, the public water agency was achieving about an 8 percent cost recovery rate.
       The goal was to achieve full cost-recovery for O&M expensesby the end o f the project in
       2007. This objective proved to be too ambitious (it i s not reached even in many more
       developed countries) and in fact the needs for O&M o f the system were not well
       understood at the start o f the project. More reliable estimates of O&M needs were made
       by a technical commission, based on an investigation financed under IDP, in2003-04. At
       about 8 billion drams, the needs were much beyond original expectations, reflecting the
       deteriorated state of much of the system. In 2005, a new cost-recovery target o f 47
       percent was formally established for the project. By 2006, 42 percent o f cost-recovery
       ratehas been achieved.

42.    The PDO indicators, some o f which were revised over the course o f project
implementation as noted above, remain appropriate for the additional financing.        Thus, the
percentage o f irrigated hectares cultivated with high value-added crops i s expected to increase
from 71 percent in 2006 to 78 percent in 2008.           Similarly, the additional two years of
implementation i s expected to strengthen cost recovery, which should rise from 42 percent in
2006 to 60 percent in 2008. This i s in accordance with studies supported under the Poverty
Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) andwould be a considerable achievement ifmet.

43.    Some further adjustments were made to the Intermediate Outcome Indicators (101s) for
the Additional Financing. All these indicators will be easily monitored by the PIU and the data
will beupdated on an annual basis.
       The indicator involving a reduction in electricity consumed per hectare (kwh per ha),
       which was among the indicators o f the original project, was removed due to the potential
       influenceo f outside factors, includingweather fluctuations.
       The number o f hectares expected to be irrigated will increase from the current level o f
       128,600 in2006 to 130,400 in2008.
       The target number o f WUAs was surpassed early in the implementation of the IDP and
       no longer appears relevant. Therefore, it was decided that a better indicator would be the
       number o f communitiesinvolved, which i s expected to reach 115 by 2008.
       Two of the 101s tracked under the IDP will continue to be updated regularly.



                                                11

               The first o f these i s the level o f farmer satisfaction with water user services. This will
               be derived from annual social surveys conducted each year under IDP financing.'
               The second o f these original 101s relates to the efficiency o f water distribution among
               water users, which i s expected to increase as a result o f the new project's
               rehabilitation activities. Duringthe irrigation season, the PIU engineers together with
               WUA technical staff will estimate water losses at the tertiary canal level and at the
               end o f eachirrigationseason, will beresponsible for assessingirrigation efficiency.

44.       A summary table of the PDOs and 101s that will be monitored over the next two years
 can be found inthe table below. The table does not include all indicators o f the IDP since, as a
more comprehensive project, its indicators were more diversified. It i s also important to note
that the achievement o f many o f them, such as improvement in the cost-recovery rate or
increases in the irrigated area, will not be exclusively the result o f the Additional Financingbut
will also reflect the institution building and other investments made over time, including the
timely implementation o f other donors' programs, inparticular the MCC.




  The survey will also continue to track the level of awareness o f water user association regulations and procedures
and the level o freported conflicts between water users. However, these issues may be subsumed withinthe overall
level of satisfaction reported.


                                                         12

                                        DPAdditionalFi

     Project Outcome Indicators                Baseline



PDOIndicators

 Measuring enhancedprofrtability:
1. Increase ofhighvalue added
irrigated crops (percentage of irrigated   55% before IDP
hectarescultivated with high value           71% in2006
added crops over the number o f all
irrigated hectares)
  Measuring sustainability:


3. Improvement incost-recovery              8% before IDP
rates.                                       42% in2006

  Intermediate Outcome Indicators
                                                                                                         Data from water
                                         Reliable data was not                                           delivery contracts
                                         availablebefore IDP                                             signedbetween
1. Number o f hectaresirrigated.          112,300 ha in2004      129,200 ha   130,400 ha     Yearly      farmers and           WUAs and
                                           128,600' in2006                                               W A S ,SCWM              PIU
                                                                                                       1IandPIU
                                                                                                         Data   from    PIU I
2. Number o f hectares for which             0 before IDP        20,000 ha     26,600ha      Yearly      about signed and
tertiarysystem has beenrehabilitated.      16,268 ha in2006                                              completed                PIU
(Number ofhectaresfor which                                                                              contracts.
availability o f water supplyhas
increased).
                                                                                                         Data   from    PIU
3. CommunitiesNillages that have             0 beforeIDP                                                 about signed and
participated inthe rehabilitation grant       72 in2006              84           115        Yearly      completed                PIU
scheme.                                                                                                  contracts.

                                                                                                         Data from W A S
4. Increasedirrigation efficiency in       N/A before IDP           58%          60%         Yearly      technical engineers   W A Sand
water distribution within the W A S '        55% in2006                                                  elaborated by PIU        PIU
command area.                                                                                            water engineer

5. Percentageof farmers satisfiedby                                                                      Data from social
irrigation water supply services. From     N/A beforeIDP            78%          80%         Yearly      survey
annual social survey and defined as          75% in2006                                                                           PIU
reliable and sufficient amount of
water delivered.




             This target for the original project for the year 2006 was set at 132,000 ha. However, experience during
           implementation showed that there are two parallel on-going processes: on the one hand, the number o f hectares
           cultivated and irrigated is increasing, and on the other, farmers are switching to cultivation o f higher value crops,
           cannot always afford (financially andor interms o f manpower) to do thls on the their total landplot and leave part
           o f it uncultivatedor under rainfed cultivated for one or a few seasons.. The new target more accurately reflects these
           dual processes.




                                                                      13

G. Benefits andRisks

45.     This additional financing will rehabilitate irrigation infrastructure in 37 schemes that
cover a command area o f about 10,500 hectares. The vast majority o f those 37 village and
communities (82 percent) have not participatedinthe IDP to date. Ingeneral, and untilthe M C C
starts to finance similar activities, it i s important not to lose the momentum created by the IDP in
mobilizing W A S for tertiary rehabilitation, as well as for identifylng and prioritizing
interventions relatedto infrastructure rehabilitationmanagedby the W A S .This i s a benefit that
exceeds the simple investment in infrastructure and spills over into capacity building and
sustainability o f the scheme. It should also be recalled that these interventions, more than
expanding the irrigated area, aim at increasing the amount o f water that i s available per hectare
inthe rehabilitatedareas. The average ERR for each single rehabilitationinvestment is about 35
percent.

46.     The risks are not substantial. A risk i s linked to the possibility that WUAs could not
mobilize the necessary counterpart financing o f 15 percent o f contract costs. A good indicator
that this risk i s negligible i s provided by the fact that all W A Sincluded for financing under the
AF have planned this cost inthe budget and already started to collect fees. Inmany cases, the 15
percent o f counterpart contributioni s already available now. The risk i s also mitigatedby the fact
that no rehabilitation contract will be tendered if the required counterpart financing has not been
mobilized and deposited in ajoint account for this purpose. A related risk could arise if another
donor were to establish a similar grant scheme with a lower financing requirement. This risk i s
mitigated by the strong dialogue and harmonized policy advice among the main partners
supporting the irrigation sector inArmenia.

47.     Financial management risks are described inpara. 34 and Annex 3. Adequate mitigation
measures are inplace.

H. FinancialTerms andConditionsfor theAdditional Financing

48.     The original financing was provided by IDA on standard IDA terms (40 years maturity,
10 years grace) and the additional financing will be provided on harder IDA terms (20 years
maturity, 10 years grace). The Credit will be denominated in SDR, and the foreign exchange
risk andall repayment obligationswouldberetainedbythe Government ofArmenia.




                                                    14

           ANNEX 1:List ofWUAdCommunitieswithRehabilitationWorks
                       Includedunder AdditionalFinancing


                   Estimated cost           Length of canal  Estimated      Estimated
       Name             of       Irrigatedtobe
                                             section           water         energy    ERR
                   rehabilitation   area     rehabilitated  savings (`000    savings   ("/)
                       (US$)        (ha)         (m)            m3)       (`000 Kwh/h)




24 Yeranos                141,790       167           3,925                            51.12%
25 Getashen               125,070       293           2,800                            63.68%
26 Zolaqar               360,800        320           4,400                            16.00%



                                         15

37    Solak                           248,930           60           2,585                                    21.36%


TOTAL                               5,363,1303       9,497          109,522       23,643.9          2,537.2




  This number is slightly different (by US$5,846) from the number inthe Procurement Planpresentedinthe Annex
 2 (US$5,368,976), since the costs for works included under the PPF had been calculated using a different exchange
 rate between US$ and AMD (363.06 vs. 363.46).




                                                        16

U    7a m33 c    zm Y 3c  e> u3 c

L)         z


  io        ;3



    io




      io i3




      io j3



      io i3




      io i3

Y          lN 3 3 IC.




 j0 :N jh
      10 jl  ;g



   ;z"  i> :O jh
               ;E


  ;qi
3'   L    -t


                                                 23                                        Annex 3

                       ANNEX 3: FinancialManagement Arrangements



1.      PIU will be responsible for financial management (FM) o f the project, including the flow
o f funds, budgeting, accounting, reporting, and auditing. The PIU i s currently implementing the
ongoing Irrigation Development Project, Dam Safety Project, Irrigation Dam Safety Project I1
and Municipal Water and Wastewater Projectwith adequate FMarrangements inplace.

2.      Financial management risk at theproject level. The financial management arrangements
o f the PIU have been reviewed periodically as part o f supervision o f the ongoing project and
have been found satisfactory. The latest assessment o f the financial management arrangements
for the project was undertaken in February-March 2007 during the FM supervision o f the
ongoingproject. Based on the FM assessment, it was established that the PIU has acceptable FM
arrangements inplace, including: (i)   accounting and reporting that i s performed in 1C accounting
software, which i s a reliable and flexible system for recording and reporting in the required
details and formats; (ii)a filing system that allows them to keep all supporting financial
documentation in a systematized manner; (iii)     an accounting staff that has extensive experience
inIDAprocedures for disbursement and financial management, includingFinancialManagement
Report (FMR) preparation; (iv) an adequate internal control system; and (v) a record o f
satisfactory FMsupervisions and annual audits o f the projects implementedby the PIU.

3.      The overall FM risk for the project before mitigation measures i s moderate, and after
mitigation measures the risk i s low.

4.      As the Project will be implemented ina country environment where corruption remains
an important issue (see below), adequate mitigation measures have been put in place to ensure
that the residual project risk i s acceptable. Mitigation measures are incorporated in the project
design and Bank staff will closelymonitor performanceduring implementation. These mitigation
actions can be summarized as follows: (i)      the project will establish a formal internal control
framework as described in the Finance Management Manual; (ii)         the flow o f funds mechanism
agreed with the Recipient will be enforced; (iii)   the project financial statements will be audited
by independent auditors and on terms acceptable to IDA; (iv) regular financial management
supervision and procurement prior and post reviews will be conducted to monitor and assess the
corruption risk; and (v) the PIU will monitor new procedures to improve the quality o f civil
works (for rehabilitationo f tertiary canals), and increase contractor accountability.

5.      Financial management risk at the countv level. According to the latest Doing Business
Survey 2007, Armenia was the top-rated CIS country and scored well vis-a-vis many other
developed and developing countries (34th out o f 175). At the same time, in the latest Business
Environment and Enterprise Performance Survey (BEEPS) report, about 30 percent o fbusinesses
have indicatedthat corruptioni s still a problemindoing business.

6.      A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) done in 2004 also concluded that
based on the analysis o f the legislative framework, procurement practices, institutional capacity
and the opportunity for corruption, the environment for conducting public procurement in
Armenia was one o f high risk at that time. The 2005 Country Financial Accountability

                                                              24                                               Annex 3

 Assessment (CFAA) report concluded that the overall fiduciary risk4in Armenia i s significant.
 The key reasons are: (i)        inadequate capacity o f core control and supervisory agencies performing
 audits within the public sector; and (ii)             persistent non-compliance in financial reporting, even
 though most o f the basic laws are in place with respect to various entities (private sector and
 public enterprises, including state non-commercial organizations). Insummary, authorities need
 to improve the quality o f auditing, monitoring and supervision. Since the CFAA and the CPAR
 reports were delivered, there has been some progress recorded on the development o f Public
 FinancialManagement (PFM).

 7.        Specifically, following the amendment to the Constitution o f the Chamber o f Control
 (COC, Arrnenian Supreme Audit Institution), it gained more independence and work i s now
 underway on development o f a new Law on COC. IDA i s assisting the COC with the
 development of its audit manuals and methodologies according to internationally accepted
practices. The internal audit reform i s under implementation, supported by the PRSC 1 to 4
programs. The Ministry o f Finance a d Economy (MOFE) also adopted an action plan for
 implementation o f InternationalPublic Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) inthe Government
 sector and i s now designing a detailed timeline for the transfer to cash-basis IPSAS and then to
 accrual.

 8.       Although the country systems will not be relied on for this project, the Bank will
continually assess progress and determine the adequacy o f the elements o f the PFM system to be
used for implementation o fprojects financed by IDA.

9.        However, the fiduciary risk o f the stand-alone financial management arrangements for
IDA-financed investment projects in Armenia i s considered low. The government counterpart
funding of the IDA-financed projects is made available on a timely basis, raising no concerns
duringlast several years.

 10.      Specific procedures are developed by the project to secure proper financial accountability
for the use o f project resources and to minimize project financial management risks. Additional
financial management arrangements in the project will include the audit o f project financial
statements by independent auditor acceptable to IDA, in accordance with term o f reference
acceptable to IDA.

11.       The country risk is assessed to bemoderate.

RiskAssessment and Mitigation

12.       The overall financial management risk for the project before mitigation measures i s
moderate, and after mitigation measures the risk i s low. Although the project will be
implemented in an environment o f highperceived corruption, adequate mitigation measures are
in place to ensure that the residual risk is acceptable. Table below summarizes the financial
management assessment andrisk ratings o f this project:



4 Risk o f illegal, irregular or unjustified transactions not being detected, measured on a four-point scale according to
the CFAA Guidelines (low, moderate, significant or high).

                                                     25                                               Annex 3

                                            FM                                                        Residual
                                            Risk RiskMitigatingMeasures                               Risk
INHERENTRISKS
Countivlevel
Weak PFMinstitutions (additional             S   P I U is to maintain independent financial           M
dormation are included incountry issues          management system, use o f private auditors and
intheprevious section)                           use o f commercial banks for designated
                                                 accounts.
Entitv level
Riskofpolitical interference inentity's     M    Board composition and structure o f PIU will provide L
management                                       for independence of the entity.
Proiectlevel
Project is small sized, with local          M    Implementationarrangements that allow close          L
commercial banks usedby the Treasury             monitoring o f activities under the project
for flow o f funds from Government with          (including flow o f funds) by IDA.
risk of inefficiency o fthe operations on
the Treasury resulting slow funds
disbursement
OVERALLINHERENTRISK                         M                                                         L
CONTROL RISKS
Budgeting                                   L    No additional mitigation measure required            L
GoodBudgeting system.
Budget is prepared inmuch detail, w h c h
i s necessary for monitoring the project.
Accounting.                                 L    No additional mitigation measure required            L
The accounting staffhas extensive
experience inIDAprocedures for
disbursement and financial management,
including FMRpreparation. The PIU
utilizes adequate accounting software.
Internal Controls                           M    A formal internal control framework described in L
Internal Controls System inthe PIUis             the Financial Management Manual will be
strong.                                          established. FMMneeds to be updated to reflect
                                                 recommendations provided during the previous
                                                 smervision.
Fundsflow                                   L    No additional mitigation measure required            L
Government and IDA funds will flow
through commercial bank designated
accounts.
Financial Reporting                         L    No additional mitigation measure required            L
All FMRswere always received ontime
andfound to be acceptable to IDA.
Auditors issuedunqualified audit reports
on those annual FMRs and positive
management letters.
Auditing                                         N o additional mitigation measure required.          M
The audit will be carried out by
independent auditors acceptabie to IDA.
OVERALLCONTROLRISK

RESIDUALRISKRATING
          H-High            S - Substantial      M-Modest                      L-Low

                                                   26                                       Annex 3


Strengths

13.    The significant strengths that provide a basis for reliance on the project financial
management system include: (i)       significant experience o f PIU Financial Management staff in
implementing IDA-financed projects; (ii)      adequate accounting software utilized by the PIU, (iii)
FMarrangements similar to the IDP project which hadbeen implementedby the PIU and found
to be adequate, (iv) the unqualified audit reports and positive management letters issued by the
PIU's managed projects' auditors on the projects financial statements, and (v) timely received
FMRsalways found to be acceptable to IDA.

WeaknessesandAction Plan

14.    There were no significant weaknesses identified at the PIU. However, the PIU needs to
update its Financial Management Manual (FMM) in order to further strengthen its financial
management capacity, as follows:

 Actions for capacity building (not credit condition)                 Responsible   Completion
                                                                       Person           Date
 1. Update the Financial Management Manual to reflect the               Chief      Prior to project
    following recommendations provided during the previous FM         Accountant   implementation
    supervision.                                                        o f PIU
 a. Update the description o f the flow o f funds and reflect the
     fundflow mechanismofthe Specialandother.
 b. Procedures for bank accounts reconciliations and for
     treatment o f any unusual items arising            from such
     reconciliations as well as procedures for reconciliation o f the
     PIU accounting records with the World Bank Paid
     Withdrawals summaries and Client Connection should be
     described inthe FMM.
 C.  The FMM also should include the procedures for SDR
     revaluation o f un-disbursed balances and accounting and
     contractual treatment o f transactions both in AMD and in
     US$, revaluation o f accounts, recognition o f foreign
     exchange gains and losses (including specific mention that
     foreign exchange losses are not eligible expenditures for IDA
     financing).
 d. Though the FMM has some description of processing o f
     invoices for the payment o f works done, no such procedures
     are detailed for the invoices for goods procured. The
     accounting staff responsibilities do not specify segregation o f
     duties in invoice processing (e.g., comparison o f invoice
     quantities, prices and terms with those indicated in the
     contracts, on the purchase orders and on goods acceptance
     acts; checking the accuracy o f calculations; approval o f
     invoices for payment; actual payment o f invoices; and
     accounting for paid invoices, including marking how the paid
     invoices are to be allocated to specific category o f
     expenditure/project activity; ensuring the timeliness o f the
     payments inorder not to breachthe contract requirements).

                                                  27                                  Annex 3


Actions for capacity building (not credit condition)                Responsible  Completion
                                                                     Person        Date
e. Internal    control   procedures     over    major   operational
    expenditures (including procurement and distribution o f fuel)
    should be detailed inthe FMM.
f. Procedures and internal controls to ensure that only valid
    business trip expenses o f staff (e.g., per diems, reasonable
    travel costs) are reimbursed, and also references to any
    standard rates or norms, if such rates or norms are to be
    applied should be reflected inthe FMM
g.  The audit requirements and procedures for auditor selection
    are not included in the FMM. The audit sample Terms o f
    Reference should be included as annex to the FMM.
h. The FMM should include detailed reporting arrangements
    within the PIU, including reporting responsibilities o f each
    staff member o f Financial Department, specifying what
    reports are to be prepared, contents and purpose o f such
    reports and the submission periodicity.
i. TheaccountingandFMRreportingbasis(accrual, cashbasis
    or cashbasis IPSAS) should be clearly stated inthe FMM.
j.  Procedures for alteration o f existing accounting policies and
    procedures and guidelines on how to implement such
    alterations needto be disclosed inthe FMM.
k. Procedures and steps as well as staff involvedineachstep for
    budget preparation, approval and subsequent monitoring o f
    adherence to budgets, and for treatment o f variations from the
    budget should be detailed inthe FMM.
1.  The FMM should clearly state the definition o f conflict of
    interest and o f related party transactions and limitations
    concerning such transactions and provide instructions to
    employees about reporting lines in case they suspect fraud,
    waste, or misuse o f project resources or property.
m. Also, the FMM provides detailed description of the cash
    transactions of the PIU while currently no cash transactions
    are applied at the PIU and it has no petty cash box. These
    changes inthe processes inpractice should be reflected inthe
    FMM.
n. The accounting department staffs duties and responsibilities
    should berevised to reflect the existing arrangements.
0.  The FMM should describe the access level for each user to
    the computerized accounting data and indicate the frequency
    o f and procedures for the accounting data backups. Also, the
    description o f major modules o f the accounting software
    should be provided.
P-  Chart o f accounts should be enclosed to the FMM.
9.  All accounting and reporting forms (invoices, purchase
    requisition form, travel expense form, incoming cash order,
    outgoing cash order, etc.) which the PIU uses should be
    enclosedto the FMM.

                                                   28                                         Annex 3

Accounting Staf$ng

15.     The financial management staff i s experienced in implementation o f IDA-financed
projects and comprises o f Chief Accountant and three accountants, each (including Chief
Accountant) dealing with one project. The Chief Accountant i s also responsible for
reconciliation and control over the department activities. The required budget has been allocated
for the PIU staff training inFY 2007.

16.     The risk associatedwith staffingi s assessed as low.

Budgeting and Planning

17.     The PIU is capable o f preparing relevant budgets. The annual budget o f the project is
based on the procurement plan as well as the last year budget figures. The annual budget i s
submitted to IDA for approval. The staff members involved in the preparation o f the annual
budget are the director, the Chief Accountant, accountants and procurement officers. The draft o f
the budget i s also discussed with the State Water Committee, then it i s approved by the Project
Management Board, after which the budget i s submitted to the MOFE's approval.

18.     Chief Accountant prepares draft budget based on the procurement plan (the schedule o f
activities o f the project i s prepared by the procurement officers), the last year budget figures and
the information provided by contract coordinators. The prepared budget i s detailed and i s
classified by categories, components and sub-components, sources o f hnds, by contracts and by
quarters and months.

19.     In case of variations from the approved budget, the Chief Accountant discusses and
agrees the proposed changes and/or reallocations with the director, and thenthe revisedbudget i s
submitted to the Project Management Board for its approval. After the Board's approval, the
revisedbudget i s submitted to MOFE.

20.     The risk associatedwithplanningandbudgetingi s assessed as low

Information Systems

21.     The accounting at the PIU i s maintained on an accrual basis in 1C accounting package.
The package i s currently inuse by a number o f Armenian PIUs and found to be adequate.

22.     The PIU's 1C accounting software automatically produces PMRs/FMRs regarding
financial management (1-A "Project Sources and Uses o f Funds, 1-B "Uses o f Funds by Project
Activities", and 1-C "Project Balance Sheet"). The form 2-A "Output monitoring report" and
procurement reports are produced manually inMS Excel.

23.     The risk associatedwith information systems i s assessed as low.

                                                 29                                        Annex 3

AccountingPolicies and Procedures.

24.      The accounting i s conducted in accordance with the national standards (ASRA). The
FMRswereprepared and submittedon an accrual bases and arepresentedinU S dollars, which is
acceptable to IDA. It i s agreed to follow with application o f the accrual basis accounting for the
additional financing, same as i s currently adopted for the ongoing project.

25.      The PIU applies Financial Management Manual, World Bank (WB) Disbursement
Handbook, FMR Guidelines, and i s acting in accordance with the provisions and regulations
stipulated by the Armenian legislation.

26.      The FMM will be updated to include new activities o f the Additional Financing as well
as the recommendations proposed bythe FMS duringthe last FMsupervision.

27.      The risk associated with accounting policies andprocedures i s considered low.

Internal Controlsand Internal Audit

28.      The PIU's internal controls inplace were found to be acceptable; particularly the staff i s
experienced in implementing IDA-financed projects, reconciliations o f IDA disbursement data
and commercial bank balances with the accounting records are regularly conducted, and SDR
revaluation i s monitored. Although the accounting software automatically produces SOEs, they
are also prepared inExcel spreadsheetsbased on accounting data and from contracts and relevant
invoices for reconciliationpurposes.

29.      The P l U has no petty cash. All payments, including salary payments, are made through
banktransfers.

30.      All fixed assets ofthe PIUare allocated to thepersonnel who are formally responsible for
their condition and existence. By the end o f December each year, annual stocktaking of fixed
assets i s conducted at the PIU.

3 1.     A weekly backup o fthe accounting data o f all the projects is done on a flash (USB) drive
each Friday. Inaddition, a monthly backup i s done on CD at the end o f the month.

32.      Overall, the PIU's internal controls system was assessed to be capable o f providing
timely information and reporting on the projects. The quarterly reports on all the projects have
always been received on time and were found to be satisfactory to IDA.

33.      As in the case of many other Project Implementing Units in the Republic of Armenia,
considering the small size o f the PIU and its financial management staff, the internal audit
function i s not considered to be required.

34.      Therisk associated with internalcontrols andinternalaudit is considered as low.

                                                 30                                        Annex 3

Financia1Reporting

35.      Project management-oriented Interim Un-audited Financial Reports (IFRs) - previously
known as Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) - will be prepared under the project. The PIU
will produce a full set o f IFRs every three months throughout the life o f the project. The format
o f IFRs, which was agreed during the assessment, includes: (a) Project Sources and Uses o f
Funds, (b) Uses of Funds by Project Activity, (c) Designated Account/Treasury Account
Statements, (d) Balance Sheet, (e) SOE Withdrawal Schedule, (0 Physical progress report, and
(g) Procurement report. These financial reports will be submitted to IDA within 45 days o f the
end o f each quarter. The first quarterly IFRs will be submitted after the end o f the first full
quarter following the initial disbursement.      Those requirements and IFRs formats will be
incorporated inthe FMM.

36.      The risk associated with reporting and monitoringi s assessed as low.

External Audit

37.      No significant issues have arisen in the audits o f previous IDA-financed project
implementedby the PIU.

38.      The audit o f the additional financing will be conducted (i)      by independent private
auditors acceptable to IDA, on terms o f reference acceptable to IDA, and procured by the PIU,
and (ii) according to the International Standards on Auditing (ISA) issued by the International
Auditingand Assurance StandardsBoardofthe InternationalFederation ofAccountants (IFAC).

39.     The PIU's previous and current auditing arrangements and findings are satisfactory to
IDA and it has thus been agreed that similar audit arrangements will be adopted for the
additional financing, to include the project financial statements, SOEs and Designated Account.
The terms o f reference for the audit o f CY2006 will likewise be used for the audit of the project
to be implemented by PIU and the entities starting in CY2007. The annual audited project and
entity financial statements (WAS)will be provided to IDA within six months o f the end o f each
fiscal year and at the closing o f the project. The contract for the audit awarded during the first
year o f project implementation may be extended from year-to-year with the same auditor, subject
to satisfactory performance. The cost o fthe audit will be financed from the credit.

40.     The following chart identifies the audit reports that will be required to be submitted by
the project implementationagency together with the due date for submission.

                                                  31                                        Annex 3


                             Audit ReDort                                       Due Date
  Entilyfinancial statements.
  W A S ' Continuing Entity financial statements include Balance
  Sheet, Income Statement, Cash Flow Statements, Statement of
  Changes inEquity and a summary of significant accounting policies Within six months of the end of
  and other exulanatorv notes.                                       each fiscal year and also at the
  Projectfinancial statements (PFS).                                 closing of the project
  The PFSs include balance sheet, sources and uses of funds by
  category, by components and by financing source; SOE statements,
  Statement of designated account, notes to financial statements, and
  reconciliation statement.

41.      Inaddition, the Chamber of Control, the country's supreme audit institution, performs ad
hoc external audits o f the PIU andthe project under its implementation.

42.      The risk associatedwith external audit i s considered moderate.

Funds Flow and Disbursement Arrangements

43.      The Chief Accountant and the accountants have previously worked with IDA'
disbursement procedures and have been successfully implementing the IDP project. The
designated account arrangements are going to be similar to those under the ongoing IDP project.

44.      The risk associatedwith funds flow and disbursement i s considered as low.

45.      Disbursement arrangements. PIU will open and manage a Designated Account (DA)
specifically for this project, ina bank acceptable to IDA. The ceiling for the Designated Account
i s set at US$300,000. Proceeds o f the Credit will be disbursed through the Designated Account
or on the basis o f direct payment, reimbursement or Special Commitment. Counterpart funds for
the project will flow from the Government to a project account. The minimum application size
for issuance o f Special Commitment or Direct Payment i s US$60,000.                Applications for
replenishment o f the DA will be submitted to IDA on a monthly basis and will include a
reconciledbank statement as well as other appropriate supporting documents.

46.      Use of statement of expenditures (SOEs). Disbursements will be made against Statement
o f Expenditures for (a) civil works contracts costing less than US$l.O million; (b) consulting
contracts with firms, costing less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent each; (c) consulting contracts with
individuals, costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; and (d) training. Full documentation
in support of SOEs would be retainedby PIU for at least one year after IDA has received the
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made.
This information will be made available for review during supervision by Bank staff and for
annual audits.

Supervision Plan

47.      As part of its project supervision, IDA will conduct risk-based financial management
exercises, at appropriate intervals. During project implementation, IDA will supervise the

                                             32                                      Annex 3


project's financial management arrangements in the following ways: (a) review the project's
quarterly   IFRs as well as the project's annual audited financial statements and auditor's
management letter and remedial actions recommended inthe auditor's Management Letters; and
(b) during IDA'Son-site supervision missions, review the following key areas (i)      project
accounting and internal control systems; (ii)
                                           budgeting and financial planning arrangements; (iii)
disbursement management and financial flows, including counterpart funds, as applicable; and
(iv) any incidences o f corrupt practices involving project resources. As required, a Bank-
accredited FinancialManagement Specialist will participate inthe supervision process.



