ANNEX 'A'
Community Consultation in Pekanbaru, 1 July 1997
Community Consultation in Medan, 3 July 1997






Institutional Strengthening in Environmental Management (ISEM)
Northern Sumatra Regional Roads Project (NSSRP)
COMMUNITY CONSULTATION IN PEKANBARU,
July 1 1997 (19.30 - 21.30 hours)
1. Mr. SAIFUL DAHLAN, BKTS, West Sumatra NGO
Question    I understand that KEPPRES 55/1993 can be found in several book / news-
paper kiosks in Padang, so that everybody can buy and read what is the
contents. It is good for people who have interested with land freeing, but it
may also induce to somebody speculates for making his own benefit,
especially to inform the affected people to get higher price of land during
acquisition.
Answer      The aim of selling and disclosing of that decree is good but it may have
negative impact.
Question    Compensation in cash - Does local government provide the budget for land
freeing ?.
Answer      The idea of requiring local govemrnment to provide budget for land freeing
is to stimulate sense of belonging, participating and responsibility to own
the projects, so that the local government will have willingness to maintain
the road properly, after completion of the road construction. There are
many sources of funds allocated to local government, in addition to APBD
I and APBD ff. Therefore, local government should distribute properly as
per regulation.
Question  : I understand that the local budgets (APBD I and APBD I) are too small to
cover land freeing compensation. Therefore, I propose APBD I and APBD
II be used for counter-parting the allocated APBN.
Answer  : Actually this NSRRP is a program of decentralisation. Moreover, most of
the roads to be built or improved are in inter-urban areas, where the actual
price of land are still very low or even most people can contribute and
sacrifice their land for roads by land consolidation.
Question  : I propose that if Land Consolidation will be applied the govemment will
provide budget for certificating their new lot and provides planning advice
quickly.
Answer  : Yes, it will be arranged by the local BPN.
Question : I propose to involve "Ninik Mamak" in the activity of informing the
NSRRP to the community.
Community Consultation During Workshop                              Page - I
FTadcr doc.0729197. 12:58 PAf



Inistitutional Strengtheniing in Enviroynnmental Management (ISEA4M
Answer       Yes, we agree that as "Ninik Mamak" have sovereignty to their
community.
2. Mr. ABUKAERAH, MEKAR DESA, NGO Riau Province informed that he did
extension and innovation periodically to the members and new members by way of snow
ball system
Question    If the government will involve Mekar Desa NGO, he is ready to assist in
giving information to their members for preparing the planning,
implementation and later also maintaining the roads under NSRRP
program.
Answer       Thank you for the willingness of Mekar Desa NGO and, of course, NGOs
will be requested to participate in giving inforrnation to the communities.
3. Mr. JASMAL ZEIN, Institute for Industries Communitv Development, West
Sumatra. Mr. Zein introduced his current activities to assist PLN (National Electricity
Enterprise) to sell electricity to home industries in rural areas of West and North Sumatra
Provinces.
Question    I propose that NSRRP's program should be informed transparently so that
NGOs can help to disclose properly to the communities in the rural areas.
Answer      Yes, this event is the starting point to inform NGOs about NSRRP which
is later can be continued by Provincial Government or even District
Government after obtaining confirmation from the Local Government
Question    Based on the Minister of Home Affairs instruction, NGOs should be
involved in the project planning, as we are mediators to village informal
leaders and we need integrity which should be informed to the
communities.
Answer       We support your ideas sand that is one of the reasons you have been
invited to attend this consultation in order to get more understanding about
NSRRP.
Question    From the information, we understand that there are two kinds of land
provision for development, that is,. Land Consolidation and Land
Acquisition by applying KEPPRES 55/1993. 1 propose to avoid dualism of
both systems applied in one link as it will create problems, that is, social
unrest. What is your opinion?.
Community Consultation During Workshop                               Page - 2
rF ld c: doc,07/29/97, 1:02 PXf



Institutional Strengthening in Environmental Management (ISEM)
Answer      I can agree with your points of view.
Land Consolidation is appropriate for village and kabupaten roads which
has been arranged by DG. of Highways No. SK 77/KPTSIDB/1990
(Bottom up planning), while KEPPRES 55/1993 probably is more suitable
for Capacity Expansion and Urban Roads.
Community Consultation During Workshop                             Page - 3
r,t d c d .071/29/97 1:02 PM






Institutional Strengthening in Environmental Management (ISEM)
Northern Sumatra Regional Roads Project (NSRRP)
COMMUNITY CONSULTATION IN MEDAN
July 3, 1997 (20.00 - 21.45 hours)
1. Dr. JAZANUL ANWAR, Chairman of Natural Resources and Environmental
Study Program University North Sumatra.
Question    I should tell you that I "regret" not being involved in the morning meeting
so that I am not able to know the NSRRP in detail ! Will the NSRRP be
carried out soon or in what stage the NSRRP is being done at this moment
and in which locations will be implemented ? I expect that the NSRRP will
be carried out transparently !.
Answer       We feel sorry that the morning session are used for govermment officials
only, while for NGOs are arranged in the evening session. For your
information, NSRRP itself is still in the preliminary stage and this
community consultation is aimed at informed NGOs that Northern
Sumatra region will get NSRRP if the conditions requested by World Bank
can be approved by the Provincial Governments. The NSRRP will be
located in four provinces i.e West and North Sumatra, Riau and DI Aceh
provinces. The NSRRP is a pilot scheme for regional roads development
and decentralisation of policy.
2. Mr. SUTRISNO, Secretary of Mountain and Jungle Explorer Association
Question    There are many reservation / conversation areas in Northern Sumatra,
therefore the NSRRP should pay attention and apply Law No.5/1990
concerning Bio-diversity of Natural Resources and Ecosystem
Conservation to avoid disturbances in that areas.
Answer      Yes, we would like to draw attention to your views and we will inform to
the Provincial and District Governments.
3. Mr. DAUD, Staff of Natural Resources and Environmental Study Program,
University of North Sumatra.
Question    Grateful if you could inform what would be handled under NSRRP,
addition of the existing broad road network or road betterment or new
roads construction ?.
Answer       It is too early to discuss the actual planning, as it will be planned later.
However, it may cover new roads construction which are deemed
necessary to be built and also capacity expansion. But, for sure,
Community Consultation During Workshop                               Page - 1
Y,, Id .do-.07129/197 1:06 PM



Institutional Strengthening in Environmental Management (ISEMd)
preservation of the existing roads will be carried out during the first year of
the NSRRP.
Question    I understand that the approach of new roads construction will be much
different than the other activities. For instance, to build a new road passing
Leuser Mountain (Natural Conservation) should be very careful to avoid
disturbances of the Natural Conservation. Once somebody knows the road
planning, it will induce to steal the logs from that area.
Answer      Yes, I agree with your views. In enable sustainable development roads
Technical Assistance will be appointed located in each provinces and those
TA will be coordinated by a TA coordinator which will be placed in one
capital among the fourth capitals of the provinces. These TA will assist the
local govemment especially in the AMDAL discipline.
4. ATQIA ABUBAKAR, FORSIKAL, Banda Aceh NGO.
Question : Concerning Land Acquisition there will be a socio-culture impact, which
government will provide the compensation budget ? There are many issues
of compensation in cash !
Answer  : Yes, it is true shat there are many issues of compensation in cash.
However, for inter-urban areas we can also apply Land Consolidation
(Head of BPN Regulation No.4/1991) whereas the planning originated
from the grass root communities. As in the inter-urban areas there are still
plenty of land, a choice of land without population is still possible to
obtain. But for capacity expansion and in urban areas APBD I and APBD
11 should be provided to compensate for land freeing. However, the land
price in inter-urban areas are still low, so that hopefully it can be covered
by APBD I and APBD II. For National roads, APBN may also be provided
to cover the land freeing costs.
Question    The quarries needed for roads construction are plentiful in DI Aceh
Province! I would like to suggest to you that NSRRP should be handled
transparently. Please do not show the gap that the rural peoples who have
no much source of income (limited land size < 0.5 hectare) have to
sacrifice their lands for road construction, while the project management
officials have new vehicles and high salaries.
Answer      Thank you for your inputs of information and suggestion. We will try to do
our best !.
Question    From the transparenicy provided, it is illustrated that roads development
should be familiar to environment. To meet such condition, I would like to
suggest the following matters
Community Consultation During Workshop                              Page - 2
Y,, Id.cdmo,72/997.1:06 PM.



Institutional Strengthening in Environmental Management (1SEA)
-   Bio-diversity and ecological equilibrium should be withdrawn
properly;
-   Specific attention to the social, economic and culture of the
indigenous peoples;
-   Law No.5/1960 concerning Basic Agrarian law and others
concerning Forestry Regulation.
5. Mr. MUHAMMAD IRWAN, YAPTENAL, Banda Aceh NGO
Suggestions: Mr. Irwan gave some inputs to the community consultation as follows:
-   NSRRP should be transparently informed, so that socialisation of the
program can be helped by NGOs;
-   NSRRP should be able to alleviate the economical status of the
communities;
-   The DI Aceh communities have an open-minded character, so that
they like to have an open-minded program and NGOs may help to
innovate the program.
6         : Staff of Natural Resources and Environmental Study Program,
University of North Sumatra
Question    There is capacity expansion of road near Medan whereas the land freeing
has lasted 3 years but it did not completed yet. The price costs of land
requested to compensate are higher than others. Currently, the road
construction are completed but with some narrow spots. What is your
opinion of such land freeing ?
Answer      We are not able to urge people for handing over the land if the
compensation is not meet the requirement of the owner. Consequently, the
road form is not as good as planned, but the narrow spots will receive
worst condition of the traffic and, of course, it is not good for the
landowners.
7. Mr. BASARF, DI Aceh Provincial Government Official
Question    The budget provision in the local governments are very limited. We are
afraid if the local budget will only be spent for land freeing, how about
other projects outside NSRRP ? Therefore, I request to be allocated from
APBN or even from the IBRD Loan !
Answer   : From IBRD Loan is not possible but for National road expansion, it is still
possible to get budget allocation from APBN.
Community Consultation During Workshop                              Page - 3
Y,,.ld.c do,.0712997, 1:06 PM.



Institutional Strengthening in Environmental Management (ISEM"%
8.       _: Staff of Natural Resources and Environmental Study Program,
University of North Sumatra.
Question     I would like to suggest that rural local problems have to be resolved by
local officials by applying local method of how to solve it.
Answer       Thank you for your kind suggestions.
Community Consultation During Workshop                                  Page - 4
Y,lid c. dcc,O7/29/97,1:06 PA4



