                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                     Report No: 35825-ID


                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (SCL-43070)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$234 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                                 FOR A

                                SUMATRA REGION ROADS PROJECT




                                              June 29, 2006




Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2005)

                                Currency Unit = Indonesia Rupiah (IDR)
                                  IDR million = US$ 101.6
                                      US$ 1.00 = IDR 9,843

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 to      December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABIU         Accident Blackspot Investigation Unit
AWPs         Annual Work Programs
BANGDA       Directorate General of Regional Development (MHA)
BAPPEDA      Provincial Development Planning Board
BAPPEDALDA   Provincial Environmental Impact and Management Agency
BAPPENAS     National Development Planning Agency
BPKP         Financial and Development Supervisory Board
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
DGH          Directorate General of Highways (MPW)
DGLT         Directorate General of Land Transportation
DGRI         Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure
DPUP/K       Kabupaten/Provincial Public Works Office
EA           Environmental Assessment
EIRR         Economic Internal Rate of Return
EITRP        Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project
ENPV         Economic Net Present Value
GoI          Government of Indonesia
GPS          Global Positioning System
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IRMS         Inter-urban Road Management System
Kabupaten    Autonomous Level II Local Government (Rural District)
Kota         Autonomous Level II Local Government (City District)
MoF          Ministry of Finance
MPW          Ministry of Public Works
NBF          Non-Bank Financed
NSRRP        Northern Sumatra Region Road Project
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PMU          Project Management Unit
PMUC         Project Management Unit Consultant
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
REPELITA     Indonesia National five Year Development Plan
SK77         Technical Guidelines for Planning and Programming of Kabupaten
             Roads
SRRP         Sumatra Region Road Project
TA           Technical Assistance
ToR          Terms of Reference
TPG          Transport Planning Commission Groups




                              Vice President:         Mr. Jeffrey S. Gutman, Acting, EAPVP
                           Country Director:          Mr. Andrew D. Steer, EACIF
                             Sector Director:         Mr. Jitendra N. Bajpai, EASTR
                         Task Team Leader:            Mr. Moustafa Baher El-Hefnawy, EASTR

                                             INDONESIA
                             SUMATRA REGION ROADS PROJECT


                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                    1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
    6. Sustainability                                                                15
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
    8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
    9. Partner Comments                                                              19
    10. Additional Information                                                       26
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             27
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             29
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             31
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             33
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             36
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                37
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            38
Map IBRD 29149

Project ID: P003993                                                  Project Name: SUMATRA REGION ROADS
                                                                     PROJECT
Team Leader: Baher El-Hifnawi                                        TL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: SUMATRA REGION ROADS PROJECT                             L/C/TF Number: SCL-43070
   Country/Department: INDONESIA                                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (91%); Sub-national government administration (7%); Central
                            government administration (2%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Pollution management and environmental health (S);
                            Municipal governance and institution building (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/28/1996                                     Effective: 07/31/1998                07/23/1998
     Appraisal: 07/07/1997                                         MTR:                             05/16/2002
      Approval: 03/31/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA/MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jeffrey S. Gutman                              Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               Andrew D. Steer                                Dennis De Tray
Sector Manager:                 Jitendra N. Bajpai                             Jeffrey S. Gutman
Team Leader at ICR:             Moustafa Baher El-Hefnawy                      Jacques Tollie
ICR Primary Author:             Moustafa Baher El-Hefnawy


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
   The Project's original development objective was to improve transport efficiency and accessibility
   within the four provinces of the Northern Sumatra region and adjacent regions. The more specific
   objectives (stated as outputs in the Project Appraisal Document -PAD) were to: (a) strengthen integrated
   planning and management of transport infrastructure in the region within the Government of Indonesia's
   (GoI) decentralized framework; (b) develop and preserve the road networks in the Project region to
   environmentally sustainable and economically efficient levels; and (c) improve resource use and service
   delivery through gains in policy implementation and technical efficiency.

   Assessment of Objectives

   The Project's development objective and its location reflected GoI's goal of achieving more equitable
   and balanced regional development. The specific goals were in line with Repelita VI (1994/5 ­ 1998/9)
   which identified programs for network preservation, capacity improvements and road construction to
   support regional development. In addition, the Project's objectives addressed the need to strengthen
   managerial capacity and improve the efficiency of resource use at the local level following the
   decentralization process embarked on in the mid-1990s.

   The Project's objectives were clear and consistent with the 1997 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
   which called for: (a) increasing efficiency and productivity in the public and private sectors; and (b)
   enhancing equitable and sustainable regional development. The Project reflected the change in focus
   from sectoral-level investments in national or kabupaten roads, for example, to a more balanced regional
   perspective. The CAS envisioned lending for infrastructure to remain an important part of Indonesia's
   program particularly for strengthening capacities at all government levels and supporting the
   decentralization of responsibilities. The Project's specific objectives responded directly to the findings of
   the Bank's 1997 Road Sector Study that identified (i) meeting the rapid growth in demand for road
   transport; and (ii) supporting sustainable development in less developed regions as the sector's two main
   challenges.

   This was the first project in Indonesia to pilot a regional approach to the road sector by aiming to
   implement planning and management systems at a regional level. It was innovative seeking to integrate
   road network development and preservation needs at the different government levels in each province
   and for the region as a whole. Clearly, the Project's objectives were ambitious but, nevertheless, realistic
   in terms of GoI's strong commitment and its implementation capacity (see Assessment of Design below).
   The objectives were also attainable within the Project duration.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Due to the Asian financial crisis, US$50 million from the loan were cancelled in January 1999. Although
the overall Project objective was not changed, in May 1999, and as a result of the significant depreciation
of the Indonesian Rupiah against the US dollar, the network development sub-objective was dropped, the
Project's geographical coverage was expanded to include all of Sumatra and the Project's name was
changed from the Northern Sumatra Region Roads Project (NSRRP) to the Sumatra Region Roads Project
(SRRP).

3.3 Original Components:
In line with its three specific objectives, the Project had three main components, each consisting of several
subcomponents. (Refer to the PAD for specifics.)



                                                        - 2 -

A   Strengthening Planning and Management of Transport Infrastructure within GoI's
    Decentralized Framework

Al)  Support BAPPENAS transport planning and management guidance; Cost: US$0.6 million.
     This sub-component consisted of technical assistance (TA) to support the development of
     decision criteria and guidelines from the National Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS)
     for provincial input. The proposed TA was to enable BAPPENAS to create a positive working
     relationship with the Provincial Transport Planning Commission Groups (TPG).

A2)  Develop provincial strategic transport planning capacity; Cost: US$9.5 million. This
     sub-component consisted of technical assistance for support to (i) the Project Management Unit
     (PMU) (US$6.0 million); and (ii) the Provincial Development Planning Board (BAPPEDA) in
     each province (US$2.3 million) and for studies to assess transport priorities in other regions and
     prepare future regional transport projects (US$1.2 million). Specific activities included
     conducting surveys, definition of a regional transport strategy, the preparation of long term
     plans and feasibility studies and the improvement of administrative audit and data processing
     procedures in the provinces.

A3)  Improve annual planning/programming; Cost: US$0.5 million. This sub-component
     consisted of technical assistance to the Directorate General of Regional Development
     (BANGDA) and the PMU (the latter being funded under the general PMU
     Consultancy--component A2) to improve procedures in the following six areas: (i) planning
     surveys and analysis; (ii) environmental screening and studies; (iii) audit, monitoring and
     eligibility review; (iv) programming and budgeting; (v) financial and physical monitoring; and
     (vi) database establishment and maintenance. These activities were to be accompanied by
     training in each province.

B)  Improvement of the National, Provincial, and Kabupaten (district) Road Networks

B1)  Regional road network preservation; Cost: US$202.8 million. This sub-component
     comprised road maintenance, minor widening and betterment.
     Maintenance was for kabupaten roads and entailed a (i) "Core maintenance program"--US$
     53.2 million, comprising routine maintenance and overlays, wholly GoI-funded; and (ii) a
     periodic maintenance program financed under the loan--US$ 78.8 million.
     Minor widening (up to two meters and within the existing ROW) was limited to
     national/provincial roads only--US$14.6 million.
     Betterment was for both national/provincial roads (US$12.0 million) and kabupaten roads
     (US$44.3 million). For kabupaten roads, the selection was to be based on the five-year plans
     and defined strategic road networks.

B2)  Regional road network development; Cost: US$143.9 million. This sub-component
     comprised capacity expansion and network extension.
     Capacity expansion--130 Kms of national and provincial roads--US$55.7 million.
     Network extension--130 Kms for the national and the provincial road networks--US$27.8
     million; and 825 Kms for the kabupaten road networks (25 Km per kabupaten)--US$49.8
     million.
     Land acquisition for both subcomponents constituted another US$10.5 million.




                                              - 3 -

C)    Improvement of Resource Use and Service Delivery

Cl)     Enhance quality and technical efficiency of design and construction processes; Cost:
        US$2.4 million. This sub-component comprised the establishment of an integrated
        implementation and quality assurance (QA) management team established under the PMU
        (financed under component A2) to design sustainable solutions to improve the standards of
        design and construction, focusing on: (i) construction contract monitoring and control processes,
        (ii) the design process, (iii) the construction audit process, (iv) quality of construction, and (v)
        advice on technical and contractual matters. In addition, the component included services for
        improved strategic mapping (US$1.4 million), and specialized survey equipment to allow a
        complete survey of the Project area and a global positioning system (GPS) to improve the
        mapping in two provinces (US$1.0 million).

C2)     Strengthen road traffic and transport policies; Cost: US$9.6 million. This sub-component
        consisted of: (i) road traffic safety--a three year program comprising institutional strengthening
        of provincial road traffic and transport agencies and selective investments in civil works and
        equipment to address critical road safety issues (US$6.4 million); and (ii) vehicle overloading--a
        three-year program comprising institutional strengthening, awareness campaigns, enforcement
        actions and provision of equipment to reduce vehicle overloading (US$3.2 million).

Assessment of Design

There was a strong, clear link between the Project's components and its specific objectives. The first
component correctly acknowledged that strengthening integrated management of the road sector in a
decentralized framework required institutional support at the national, provincial and kabupaten levels.
The second component excluded the financing of periodic maintenance of national and provincial roads
due to a relatively strong maintenance culture for higher level roads and focused instead on
strengthening maintenance capacity for kabupaten roads. This built on the Bank's experience and the
success of the Kabupaten Roads Projects (3490-IND, 3579-IND and 3732-IND) that laid a foundation
for systematic maintenance procedures and funding. The eligibility of kabupatens to participate in the
Project was conditional on the definition of kabupaten strategic networks and the preparation of
five-year work plans that included annual routine maintenance of 150 Kms and overlay of 20 Kms for
each kabupaten. This was to help strengthen a planning culture at the kabupaten level as well as to
demonstrate government commitment to the Project.

The design utilized several of the lessons learned from earlier projects, particularly with respect to
having realistic and specific goals achievable within the Project's time frame. Another lesson was the
need for the central government to leverage its budgetary resources to ensure more efficient resource use
by local government. This was reflected in the eligibility criteria for kabupaten participation mentioned
above. It was not clear, though, how lessons from the Bank's experience in "regional" projects in the
health and education sectors in Indonesia were considered in this Project's design.

The implementation of such a Project with a large number of subcomponents involving different levels
of governments and different agencies within each level was demanding. The lead implementing agency,
the Directorate General of Highways (DGH), had executed several projects involving the Bank and other
donors. It had competent staff and had played a lead role within the government team during
preparation. However, as there were five more implementing agencies involved (BANGDA,
BAPPEDA, Provincial and Kabupaten Directorates of Public Works (DPUP, DPUK) and the
Directorate General of Land Transportation (DGLT)), a Steering Committee and PMU were established


                                                    - 4 -

   to facilitate coordination and to coordinate activities respectively. Heeding one of the lessons learned
   from an earlier project, the Bank provided a large TA program to support the PMU both at the central
   and provincial levels. A Project Implementation Memorandum documenting the respective roles,
   responsibilities and procedures for project implementation for each agency was also prepared.

   Despite the overall sound design of the Project, the TA programs to support planning (Component A)
   were not clearly defined and resulted in confusion requiring changes later on although some of the
   changes were required to adapt to the evolving decentralization process. In addition, the need to
   establish TPGs in every province (under the BAPPEDA TA) might not have been totally appropriate as
   some provinces such as Western Sumatra had a strong planning tradition and did not find much use for
   this group. There did not seem to be sufficient analysis of the institutional capacity of participating
   provinces.

3.4 Revised Components:
   Due to the impact of the Asian financial crisis, the road network development was abandoned and the
   focus shifted to network preservation as explained below.

   A1-A3) Transport planning and management subcomponents: No significant change

   B) Improvement of the National, Provincial, and Kabupaten Road Networks. Improvement of the
   road networks was to be accomplished through both network preservation and development. As a result
   of the Asian financial crisis and the fiscal pressures on GoI, the focus of this component became almost
   entirely network preservation as explained below.

   B1) Regional road network preservation. The Kabupaten periodic overlay sub-component was
   cancelled as a direct result of the Asian financial crisis. Moreover, to capitalize on the large
   depreciation of the Rupiah, the geographical scope of the Project was expanded to include the four
   provinces of southern Sumatra; therefore the beneficiaries of this sub-component changed from 4 to 8
   provinces and from 33 to 55 kabupatens. Due to the breaking-up of provinces and kabupatens, those
   numbers changed to 9 and 73 respectively. Output targets in Km were revised as follows:

                                           PAD targets                       Revised targets
   Kabupaten maintenance                                           (based on 8 provinces and 55 kabupatens)
   Routine (GoI funded)                        19,800                             24,750
   Overlays (GoI funded)                       2640                               cancelled
   Periodic                                    6,600                              8,250

   Betterment and minor widening
   National/Provincial                          240                               320
   Kabupatens                                   990                               1650

   B2)        Regional road network development. As a result of the 1997 Asian financial crisis, the
   sub-component on network extension (US$77.6 million) was dropped and the sub-component on
   capacity expansion was reduced from 130 Km to 80 Km.

   Cl)        Enhance quality and technical efficiency of design and construction processes. The only
   revision in this sub-component was to the Mapping TA. This package was replaced after careful
   consideration of many factors including the estimated final cost of the TA, the limited coverage of the
   mapping (two provinces), project complexity, delays in tendering which would have resulted in a



                                                      - 5 -

   completion date near to or outside the loan completion date and the availability of alternative sources for
   project mapping.

   C2)        Strengthen road traffic and transport policies. The scope of the traffic safety subomcponent
   was reduced due to delays and budgetary limitations. Initially, blackspots were to be identified in all
   four northern provinces, remedial measures would be determined and designs completed. However, only
   two accident blackspots were included in the program. There was a change in the conceptual approach
   to controlling vehicle overloading. Realizing the limitations of existing practices to control overloading
   due to potential corruption at the weigh station, emphasis was changed from physical improvements and
   strengthening enforcement to involving the private sector in the operation of weigh stations and to the
   use of performance incentives. The new approach was piloted in four locations (three in West Sumatra
   and one in Aceh).

3.5 Quality at Entry:
   Quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The Project was consistent with both GoI priorities and CAS
   objectives (see Section 3.1), and the implementation arrangements were well conceived as note above.
   The Bank's safeguard polices were followed. GoI conducted a social impact assessment for the Project
   and prepared a resettlement policy framework consistent with OD4.30 and a strategy to mitigate any
   negative impacts on isolated vulnerable people consistent with the GoI's requirements and the Bank's
   OD4.20. GoI also prepared an environmental impact assessment and an environmental management and
   monitoring plan based on the Environmental Assessment's (EA) recommendations. A project review by
   the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) in 1998 found quality at entry satisfactory.

   Among the more important risks identified by the team were: government commitment, counterpart
   funds and managerial capacity at the different Project levels. The general government thrust towards
   decentralization and the participation of BAPPENAS in the Project served to mitigate both commitment
   and counterpart funding risks. The sound design of the overall implementation arrangements addressed
   the managerial capacity question well. However, government commitment did not appear very strong
   with respect to the vehicle weight and dimension sub-component. Polices to control overloading had not
   been successful in the past, and a 1989 GoI Action Plan addressing this issue was facing delays during
   preparation.

   While the quality at entry was satisfactory, there were several issues that could have been addressed
   better. Performance indicators were not well defined (were later changed) and no baseline was
   established. With "increasing efficiency and accessibility" being the broad development objective, there
   could have been indicators to measure these objectives more directly such as savings in travel time and
   cost for example. Among the other shortcomings, there were detailed implementation plans for two
   subcomponents only. In addition, the section in the PAD addressing the three TA programs of
   Component A on strengthening transport planning and the terms of reference for these assignments
   could have benefited from additional clarity in defining responsibilities and coordinating mechanisms,
   and in avoiding overlaps. Also, consistency in defining minor widening in the PAD was lacking. In
   certain cases, it was presented under betterment and in others it was presented as an independent
   category, with betterment referring to other activities. Finally, contractual arrangements made it difficult
   to figure out the cost of sub-component C1. The PMU was to be paid under sub-component A2 for all
   its tasks including those carried out under sub-component C1.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:




                                                     - 6 -

The achievement of the Project's main objective of improving transport efficiency and accessibility
within Sumatra was moderately satisfactory. This reflects the relative success in accomplishing each
of the objectives as explained below.

(a) Strengthen and integrate planning and management of transport infrastructure: Unsatisfactory.
Delays in implementing the TA packages for Component A, particularly the BAPPEDA TA, coupled
with poor implementation coordination among these TAs at the different government levels precluded
the development of the desired outcomes in a participatory manner that would ensure ownership and
sustainability. Instead the TAs resulted in several high quality outputs that may or may not be utilized
by the different levels and agencies of GoI. The performance indicators in Annex 1 show that while the
availability of medium term plans for kabupatens increased from 39% in 2000 to 79% in 2003, it
dropped to 39% in 2004 following the completion of the civil work component that required the
preparation of these plans. If one were assess this objective excluding the 2004 data, the rating would
have been moderately satisfactory, and outcome sustainability in question.

(b) Develop and preserve road networks to environmentally sustainable and economically efficient
levels: Moderately Satisfactory
The Project succeeded in meeting the network preservation objective. However, the network
development objective was not met as the sub-component contributing to network development was
cancelled (see B2 in Section 3.4). In addition, while the Project succeeded in imparting the skills
necessary to apply economic efficiency criteria for project selection at the kabupaten level, these
achievements were not sustained, as the performance indicators in Annex 1 show a decline by December
2004. The Project was not very successful in supporting kabupatens in developing and strengthening a
road preservation culture. Eligibility of kabupatens to participate in the Project required commitments
to certain targets for routine maintenance and overlays. The overlay condition was dropped as a result
of the fiscal pressures facing the government following the Asian financial crisis. With the benefit of
hindsight, it became clear that routine maintenance requirements were observed mainly to secure
participation in the Project, and generally do not appear to be consistently followed by kabupatens any
longer.

While expanding the geographical region of the Project to the entire island of Sumatra reduced the
intended impact of the physical improvements in promoting integrated strategic corridors in the
provinces and kabupatens that were originally to be covered by the Project (northern Sumatra), it
provided a larger set of roads for screening, which most likely resulted in overall higher economic rates
of return to the physical improvements. This is however difficult to ascertain given that the screening
and selection processes took place during implementation.

The Project succeeded in strengthening the role of environmental screening and management in transport
projects as evident by the more effective role that Bappedalda (Environmental Management Impact
Agency) continues to play in some provinces.

The performance indicators in Annex 1 also indicate that efficient planning is becoming less of a basis
for network development and preservation. More importantly, the misprocurement of 32 contracts (see
Sections 5.2 and 5.3 below) whose prices had been prearranged among bidders, has clearly hindered
efficiency in developing and preserving the road network. Even though the value of the 32 contracts
accounted for a small share of the loan (2.5%) and might not have had a major impact on the
achievement of the Project's objectives, the incident has raised concerns as to the possible prevalence of
such practices in all procurement activities, which in turn would undermine the efficient development of
the road network.


                                                  - 7 -

   (c) Improve resource use and service delivery: Moderately Satisfactory
   This Project contributed to capacity development in project selection, design and supervision at the
   various government levels particularly for kabupatens where capacity was the most lacking. While the
   objective of achieving sustainable road safety programs was not fully realized, many positive steps were
   taken in that direction providing a sound base to build on. Notably, the reduction in fatalities per 10,000
   vehicles exceeded planned targets. Vehicle overloading has been reduced on certain corridors on the
   strength of Project financing with some promising indications that current efforts will be sustained
   through government financing and the piloted model carried out nationally.

4.2 Outputs by components:
   Al)    Support BAPPENAS transport planning--Rating: Satisfactory
   After long start-up delays, a comprehensive set of decision criteria and guidelines for regional transport
   planning were developed. These covered 17 areas including: (i) development planning decision criteria;
   (ii) guidelines on environmental and social planning; (iii) guidelines on regional development planning;
   (iv) guidelines on evaluation and prioritization; (v) simulation of the regional transport planning process;
   and (vi) social environmental guidelines.

   A2)      Develop provincial strategic transport planning capacity--Rating: Satisfactory
   At the kabupaten level, five and ten-year road network development plans were prepared for all
   kabupatens. At the kota (city district) level, guidelines for urban transport studies were developed. These
   included guidelines for urban transport development planning and for integrating urban transport plans
   into provincial plans. At the provincial level, key outputs included 20-year plans for roads and bridges,
   establishing transport planning groups, and developing simple methodologies for medium and long term
   planning.

   A3)      Improve annual planning/programming--Rating: Satisfactory
   Although a large number of guidelines and manuals were developed under this sub-component, many
   were produced late in the Project and agencies were not fully exposed to their content. Key outputs
   included defining BANGDA's transport management roles and activities in provinces and kabupatens,
   preparing operational guidelines for BANGDA, developing guidelines and procedures for coordination
   among agencies, and institutionalizing the BAPPENAS transport planning guidelines.

   B1)      Regional road network preservation--Rating: Satisfactory
   Table 1 shows achievements against the revised targets. It was believed that the higher revised targets
   could be achieved based on the sharp depreciation of the Rupiah but this was not enough to offset the
   increased construction cost that turned out to be significantly higher than planned. Nevertheless, the
   table shows a relatively high rate of achievement varying from 85% to 235% of the original targets; and
   69% to 176% of the revised estimates. There has been some variation in the overall quality of the
   implemented works, but problems have been rectified and with some exceptions particularly in
   kabupaten roads, quality is acceptable.

   B2)      Regional road network development--Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
   Measuring against the revised target of 80 Kms of new capacity (capacity extension cancelled--see
   Section 3.4), the output for this subcomponent was substantially less than planned at only 42% of the
   revised target (see Table 1 below).




                                                      - 8 -

Table 1: Road Network Preservation and Development: Planned and Actual (Kms)

                                                               PAD/Revised*            Actual      Actual/Revised
 COMPONENT B1: NETWORK PRESERVATION
 Kabupaten Maintenance
  Core Program (GoI funded)--Routine Maintenance                19,800/23,700          23,700            100%
  Core Program (GoI funded)--Overlays                          2,640/cancelled        cancelled
  Periodic Maintenance                                           6,600/8,250           5,661.1           69%
 Betterment and Minor Widening
  National and Provincial                                          240/320              564.6            176%
  Kabupatens                                                      990/1,650            1,443.2           87%


 COMPONENT B2: NETWORK DEVELOPMENT
 Capacity Expansion
  National and Provincial                                           130/80              33.8             42%
 Network Extension
  National and Provincial                                       130/cancelled         cancelled
  Kabupatens                                                    825/cancelled         cancelled
* Figures per PAD/Revised figures after expansion of geographical scope.

Land acquisition, resettlement and social impacts. Three subprojects required land acquisition and
resettlement of about 560 households: Tabing-Duku in Padang, West Sumatra; Aek Nabara in Medan,
North Sumatra; and Pekanbaru-Batas Kampar in Riau Province. Land acquisition was delayed in a few
instances but was generally satisfactory. An October 2004 mission visited the capacity expansion
project in West Sumatra and interviewed a number of project affected residents and businesses. They
expressed their satisfaction with the compensation and with the land acquisition process and indicated
that the project had improved the locale. Several mentioned that they are experiencing an increase in
rents associated with their properties. Visits to Project sites in North Sumatra and Riau by GoI's
Implementation     Completion    Report   (ICR)    consultant    produced    similar   results.  Therefore,
implementation of social safeguards is considered satisfactory.

Cl)     Enhance quality and technical efficiency--Rating: Satisfactory
An integrated implementation and quality assurance management team was established under the PMUC
as envisioned and carried out the required tasks satisfactorily using both on-the-job training as well as
formal training programs. This subcomponent was particularly beneficial in uncovering shortcomings in
design and quantities used for tendering during the first phase of the Project. These problems were then
addressed in ensuing phases. Similarly, poor construction quality was identified as a concern during site
audits and was reasonably addressed resulting in significant improvements as the Project progressed
through its three annual work programs. Multicolored road network base maps were produced for the
region, its nine provinces and 73 kabupatens using digitized data. These were utilized in the preparation
of 5 and 10-year plans.

C2)       Strengthen road traffic and transport policies--Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Many of the outputs under this subcomponent were successfully produced. However implementation
varied across provinces, and delays in procurement and implementation resulted in a reduction in the
number of programs undertaken. Accident Blackspot Investigation Units (ABIUs) were established and



                                                 - 9 -

   equipped, and training and manuals were provided in the following areas: (i) accident reporting, (ii)
   accident investigation and development of mitigation measures, (iii) road safety auditing, and (iv) traffic
   signal design. However there was no effective ABIU work in North Sumatra. Blackspot programs were
   designed and improvement links were constructed in Riau only in 2004, with work programs in West
   and North Sumatra delayed till late 2005. Among other accomplishments, publicity campaigns were
   undertaken, legislation on traffic safety issues was drafted, and pilot road safety projects were developed
   but not undertaken due to lack of funds. Although delayed significantly and resulting in a one-year loan
   closing date extension, four pilot programs for managing overloading were established in West Sumatra
   and Aceh. The programs were built on performance-based incentives, management structures involving
   the private sector and community pressure through public awareness campaigns.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
   As explained in the PAD the benefits of improved efficiency were difficult to quantify. Consequently
   the focus of the estimation was Bank-financed road works. This included both national/provincial roads
   and kabupaten roads. There should have been an estimate, even if just indicative, of the benefits
   associated with the GoI-financed core maintenance program in the kabupatens, as well as of the
   reduction in overloading. Moreover, to help increase the appreciation of planning and programming, it
   would have been useful to compare returns to annual work programs (AWPs) developed on the basis of
   the efficiency criteria promoted by the Project to the returns of AWPs as identified by kabupatens prior
   to the Project.

   National/Provincial Roads
   Inter-urban Road Management System (IRMS) was used to identify the economic viability of the
   preservation and capacity expansion projects on national/provincial roads based on the Economic
   Internal Rate of Return (EIRR). This formed part of the screening process to define the specific
   investments in each AWP. When IRMS data on road condition and traffic levels was suspect and where
   the proposed type of works differed significantly from the IRMS output, better data on road condition
   and traffic level was sought during the screening phase of the Project.

   Due to lack of resources, traffic was not measured after implementation completion. The EIRR
   calculations in Table 2 below are based on the same traffic data and projections used at the time of
   screening but on actual construction costs. Consequently, and given that traffic projections have not
   been updated, there is a larger degree of uncertainty surrounding the projected returns. Annex 3 presents
   some details on the estimation and methodology used. Nevertheless, the returns are high enough to
   withstand significant drops in traffic volumes from what was projected.

   Table 2: Economic Internal Rates of Return (EIRRs)--Pre-implementation and Post Completion*
                                  Phase 1**                          Phase 2**                       Phases 1 & 2**
                                EIRR (Actual)                      EIRR (Actual)                      EIRR (Actual)
                        Pre-implementation Post-completion Pre-implementation Post-completion Pre-implementation Post-completion

Betterment                   82%               81%              77%               88%              79%               85%
Minor Widening               55%               50%              71%               86%              59%               58%
Capacity Expansion                                              21%               23%              21%               23%
All                                                                                                61%               64%
   * Post completion EIRRs are based on pre-implementation traffic values and actual costs.
   ** The fluctuation in exchange rates over the life of the Project resulted in two phases for sub-project
   screening and identification. Initially, it was believed that only 313.7 kms would be financed under the
   Project. When it was later realized that there would be sufficient funds to finance more works, an



                                                          - 10 -

   additional 252.2 Kms of preservation works and 33.8 Kms of capacity expansion works were
   implemented as phase 2. The initial 313.7 Kms constituted phase 1.

   Kabupaten Roads:
   The Technical Guidelines for Planning and Programming of Kabupaten Roads (SK77) were used to
   determine the economic viability of betterment projects based on a positive Economic Net Present Value
   (ENPV) for each project at a 15% discount rate.

   Similar to the case of national/provincial roads, the ENPV calculations provided in Table 3 use the same
   traffic data and projections utilized at the time of initial screening and the actual construction costs. It
   was not possible to estimate pre-implementation ENPVs because the pre-construction planned costs are
   no longer available.

   Table 3: Economic Net Present Value per Km for Kabupaten Betterment Projects
                                                                   ENPV (Rp millions/km)
   AWP 1999/2000                                                           224.82
   AWP2000                                                                 185.05
   AWP 2001                                                                313.46
   All AWPs                                                                235.61



4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
   Despite substantial contributions by the Project to institutional strengthening, its overall institutional
   development impact is rated modest. This is due to the unlikely sustainability of these impacts (see
   Section 6.1), which vary significantly from one area to another. The institutional impact of the Project
   in enhancing the quality of design and construction was high, while its impact on strengthening strategic
   planning, road safety and reducing vehicle overloading was modest.

   Extensive training was provided to help institutionalize the positive impacts of the Project. Almost
   2,000 people received training for a total of about 12,000 person days. The design of the training
   programs was based on needs assessment and covered areas of planning, project design and
   implementation, quality control and contract management among others. Questionnaires were sent out to
   trainees and their employers to assess training effectiveness. About 92% of the respondents rated the
   programs between fair and very good.

   DGH played a guiding and advisory role to kabupatens (compared to the more hands-on executing roles
   on previous projects) to strengthen the capacity at the local level in technical planning, programming,
   implementation and monitoring of work packages. Through monitored supervision of civil works by
   field consultants, reinforced by formal training, project related staff gained valuable experience in
   implementing high quality works. This was reflected in an improved quality of design and construction
   progressively throughout the Project.

   The Project had a substantial impact on environmental management at the local level. The Project
   created greater awareness within BAPPEDA and MPW in the provinces and kabupatens for the need for
   consultation with Bapedalda during road works planning, programming, design, construction and
   maintenance. In addition, the guidelines that were prepared and the training on safeguard policies in



                                                      - 11 -

   environmental aspects of projects that was offered helped strengthen the capacity of Bapedalda.

   There are positive institutional developments with respect to road safety but in very few locations.
   Members of the ABIUs have carried out presentations at four school locations identified as having high
   student accident casualties, ABIU staff has participated in radio talk shows to raise public awareness
   and the police participated in public broadcasts reminding listeners about the use of helmets and seat
   belts.

   The modest impact of the Project in developing strategic planning capacity at the local level is due to the
   fact that there was little ownership of the guidelines and manuals that were prepared. Local governments
   believe that they were not sufficiently consulted in the process. (see Section 6.1).

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
   1. East Asian financial crisis. The crisis affected the Project in three interrelated ways:
   First, the crisis shifted the attention of senior and key government officials to social safety nets and
   poverty alleviation policies. Moreover, the fiscal impacts of the crisis faced by GoI were massive. Debt
   service, fuel subsidies and restructuring of Indonesia's State-Run Electricity Company placed huge
   burdens on the budget. This limited any benefits to the network development sub-component as the
   network extension sub-component was cancelled and the network expansion sub-component was
   reduced substantially. In addition, the GoI-financed overlay sub-component for the kabupaten roads was
   also dropped.

   Second, the sharp depreciation of the Rupiah, coupled with the uncertainty regarding the magnitude of
   the fiscal impacts of the crisis, led to the expansion of the Project's geographical scope to cover all of
   Sumatra. The initial plan was for this Project to cover northern Sumatra and be later followed by a
   Project for southern Sumatra. This reduced the intended impact of the physical improvements in
   promoting integrated strategic corridors in provinces and kabupatens.

   Third, the uncertainty created by the crisis also resulted in effectively no disbursements for the first 12
   months of the Project. The US$/IDR exchange rate was 3,500 IDR/US$ at appraisal, 14,200 IDR/US$
   at effectiveness and 9,843 IDR/US$ at completion. The large fluctuations in the exchange rate
   throughout the life of the loan had implications for the achievable scope of work. The situation led the
   PMU to implement a conservative approach to the size of the AWPs for the kabupaten, provincial and
   national road works which in turn resulted in significant funds being available during the later stages of
   the Project.

   2.    Adverse security situation in Aceh. The security situation in Aceh worsened throughout the
   Project and delayed the implementation of several packages. This also resulted in the level of
   supervision and capacity development being less in Aceh than that in other provinces.

   3.    Vagueness in the Terms of Reference (ToR) for the TA packages addressing the strategic
   planning component
   To strengthen strategic planning at the local level, TAs were intended for four agencies: BAPPENAS,
   BAPPEDA, BANGDA and DGH. The ToR were insufficiently specific in this regard leading to
   misunderstandings by both clients and consultants and requiring time and effort to clarify roles and
   responsibilities of each consultant in the overall structure of the Project. This vagueness contributed to
   delays which reduced the overall impact of this component. The situation was exacerbated by the



                                                       - 12 -

   evolving roles following the decentralization law. While project preparation is the responsibility of the
   government, its implementing agencies and consultants, the Bank could have provided more guidance in
   particular areas where GoI may have little experience.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
   1.    Lack of clarity in defining planning roles following decentralization. Decentralization created a
   plethora of agencies with transport planning and environmental management responsibilities. These
   agencies are widely dispersed in terms of geography, sub-sectoral scope and locus within the overall
   government structure. There was a lack of clarity within each agency regarding roles and
   responsibilities with respect to transport planning particularly under deconcentration, which left central
   government responsible for certain functions through their regional offices. Law 22 on regional
   autonomy did not provide for appropriate mechanisms to ensure that these agencies liaise closely so that
   transport planning, programming and budgeting are carried out in a consistent manner compatible with
   the development of an integrated transport system.

   2.    Availability and timing of release of counterpart funds. The annual programs and budgets were
   not always finalized by the start of the fiscal year (initially July and then January). Delays occurred
   while budgets were approved by government authorities. In addition, the available budgets for land
   acquisition and resettlement were limited, further contributing to implementation delays.

   3.    Staff changes due to splitting of kabupatens. Transfer of key staff within the government
   deprived some kabupatens and provinces of critical personnel. During the life of the Project, 18
   kabupatens were split up. This left some of the newly formed kabupatens with insufficient skills and
   capacity to manage contracts.

   4.    Weak commitment to managing the vehicle overloading and road safety component. DGLT's
   commitment to this component was not strong. There were continuous implementation delays (Project
   was extended one year just for this component), poor implementation performance, and no strong
   interest in exploring different institutional set-ups for sustaining the achievements in limiting vehicle
   overloading after Loan closing. Similarly, the ABIUs were not provided with budgets and qualified
   staffing to continue successful operation after Loan closing. Since closing, there have been some
   promising indications that local governments are contributing some funding to continue the programs for
   managing overloading that were piloted under the Project.

   5.    Misprocurement of 32 contracts. After undertaking a detailed review of 42 contracts for civil
   works for kabupaten roads in North Sumatra, West Sumatra and Jambi, the Bank found that the award
   of 32 of those contracts had been prearranged among bidders either with the active involvement of the
   tender committees of the kabupaten governments in the three provinces or in a manner that was easily
   detectable to the tender committees. These actions undermined the objectives of economy, efficiency and
   transparency intended in National Competitive Bidding processes required by the Bank's Procurement
   Guidelines and resulted in the award of higher, non competitively-priced contracts (also see para 2 in
   Section 5.3 below).

   6.    Lack of authority and independence of supervision engineers. While government-appointed
   project managers (PIMPROs) had the authority to reject works and withhold payments, supervision
   engineers did not have that authority. This resulted in low quality construction for some kabupaten roads
   and required remedial works.

   7.    Inadequacy of the "Simplified Design" approach. Proposals submitted for undertaking design


                                                       - 13 -

   and construction works were based on "Simplified Design" standards per GoI's guidelines. These are
   indeed simple standards that do not take site-specific conditions into account. As a result, there would
   be design reviews later which would ultimately lead to increased costs and opportunities for corruption.
   The increase in cost made it difficult to develop a realistic sense of the size of the work program that
   would ultimately be implemented. Considerable efforts were directed at improving these standards and
   "Simplified Design" was replaced by "Final Design" in Phase 2 of the national and provincial works
   program. Design review was eliminated and the number and size of contract variations was reduced.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
   1.    Land Acquisition/Resettlement Delays. Only four capacity expansion packages of work involved
   considerable land acquisition. The acquisition process caused delays with one package being cancelled
   due to insufficient time to complete the acquisition and resettlement process. It should be noted however,
   that limited budgets for compensation prolonged the implementation process as well (see para 2 in
   Section 5.2 above).

   2.    Compliance with Bank requirements. In some cases, provinces and kabupatens failed to comply
   with Bank requirements especially those relating to notification and advertising of prequalification/bids,
   bidding period and bid opening procedures. The PMU, with support from its consultant (PMUC),
   however, is responsible for day to day management of the Project. As such, even though the main
   responsibility for procuring goods and services lays with the local governments as indicated in the loan
   agreement, DGH, the lead implementing agency, also shares responsibility for the 32 misprocured
   contracts (see para 5 in Section 5.2 above and see GoI's comments on the Bank's ICR in Section 9).

   3.    Initial management of the Strategic Transport Planning TA packages. While the PMU did a
   good job in managing the strategic transport planning TAs after the "refocusing" took place in mid
   2002, the PMU does share responsibility with the Bank (see para 3, Section 5.1) for the vagueness of
   the initial TAs and more so for the resulting delays in implementation. In particular, the BAPPEDA TA
   had not been mobilized on time and the assurance of immediate continuity of assistance at the provincial
   level was lost, although BAPPEDA itself shares some of the responsibility for the delays.

5.4 Costs and financing:
   The cost of the Project at appraisal was estimated at US$369.3 million of which the Bank was to
   finance US$234 million and GoI to finance the balance of US$135.3 million. The total actual Project
   cost is estimated at US$219.3 million (59% of the appraisal estimate) of which the Bank financed
   US$178.9 million and GoI US$40.4 million respectively equivalent to 82% and 18% of the total.

   The Loan Agreement was amended three times and the closing date was extended two years to
   December 31, 2005. This first amendment in January 1999, cancelled US$50 million from the Loan.
   The second amendment in May 1999 changed the name of the Project and increased the Bank's share of
   financing of civil works and materials from 75% to 80%. The third amendment in July 2003 allocated
   the unallocated funds and made some changes in the existing allocations. Loan savings of US$5.1
   million were cancelled at the end of the Project. The first extension in the loan closing date (to December
   31, 2004) was to allow completion of the civil works and TAs. The second extension (to December 31,
   2005) was to allow completion of the pilot programs to manage vehicle overloading and to afford DGLT
   sufficient time to effectively plan continuation of the program after the Bank loan closes.

   Expenditures on the regional road network development as a percentage of the estimate at appraisal was
   lowest at 12% due to cancellation and large reduction of the network extension and expansion
   sub-components respectively. Expenditures on the technical efficiency sub-component were also low at



                                                     - 14 -

   43% of the estimate due primarily to the cancellation of the initial mapping TA sub-component.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
   Overall sustainability without follow up efforts is unlikely.

   The TA packages aimed at developing and strengthening strategic transport planning (Component A)
   were executed without sufficient support and involvement from local governments (see Section 4.1 a).
   Consequently, there was little buy-in from local governments and sustainability at the local government
   level in particular is highly unlikely without follow-up. The performance indicators in Annex 1
   corroborate this finding showing that the percentage of kabupatens that prepare medium-term road plans
   dropped from 79% in December 2003 to 39% in December 2004. The GoI's ICR consultant reported
   that based on discussions with senior representatives from BAPPEDA in North Sumatra, West Sumatra
   and Riau, the situation had not changed since 2004.

   The sustainability of the physical improvements in national/provincial roads is likely even though the
   percentage of Sumatra's national/provincial roads that are in good condition dropped from 84% in 2000
   to 69% in 2004 (see Annex 1). Nevertheless, there is a relatively strong maintenance culture for national
   roads and the decline may be interpreted as some periodic fluctuation. The story is different for
   kabupaten roads where there is no strong preservation culture, and devolution has shifted the
   responsibilities of kabupaten road management from the central and provincial agencies to local
   agencies. The drop in the percentage of strategic kabupaten road networks accounted for in annual
   work programs plummeted from 52% in 2003 to 25% in 2004 indicating that sustainability is unlikely
   without additional efforts and government commitment in this area. While the Project had succeeded in
   imparting the technical skills, it was not successful in cultivating a road planning and programming
   culture.

   Sustainability of the achievements in managing road safety and vehicle overloading is unlikely. The
   continuous delays in implementing the different programs demonstrate the lack of commitment necessary
   to sustain and build on current achievements. Even though there have been some promising indications
   recently (see Section 4.1c), the rationale behind them is not clear enough to warrant a positive rating on
   sustainability.

   While there have been improvements in design and construction quality as a result of the Project, these
   achievements do not appear to have been institutionalized as the performance indicators show that the
   proportion of design procedures followed by kabupatens dropped from 66% of the total in 2002 to 55%
   in 2004.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
   TPGs that were established during the Project were expected to remain in place and carry out the
   planning functions but after completion of the Project, most of them ceased to operate. As for the other
   Project components, the members of the implementing agencies were employed by the respective
   ministries and so transition from the Project to regular operations has taken place with no disruption.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
   The Bank's performance in lending was satisfactory. The assessment of objectives and design in



                                                      - 15 -

   Sections 3.1 and 3.3 respectively and "quality at entry" in Section 3.5 explain that the Project was well
   conceived and designed, and that the implementation arrangements were set up to deal with the
   complexity of this Project. They also highlight the areas where preparation could have been better. The
   Project was prepared with the active participation of the Borrower and complied with all relevant
   safeguard policies. Key risks were identified; and the preparation team members, complemented by
   consultants, covered the different areas of expertise required (see Annex 4). An economic analysis of a
   sample of investments in road preservation and network development illustrated their economic viability.
   However, there could have been an attempt to estimate the benefits of other components as well (see
   Section 4.5).

7.2 Supervision:
   The Bank's performance at supervision was satisfactory. The Bank's team had a broad skill base well
   suited to supervise the key Project tasks of transport planning and project planning, design and
   implementation. Bank missions averaged two per year and had a balanced mix of the necessary
   expertise. The client also received strong support from the Bank's office in Jakarta on sector issues as
   well as in the implementation of safeguards. Supervision included site visits to all Sumatran provinces.
   In addition, the Bank made an effort to visit as many staff as possible from kabupaten agencies.
   Supervision reports were clear, detailed and focused on quality assurance, effective resource utilization
   and timely meeting of planned targets.

   Bank staff was sensitive to the many issues and problems that occurred throughout the Project and
   assisted in identifying options for restructuring the loan as a result of the Asian financial crisis. The
   Bank was proactive and provided good support in the financial and technical administration of the
   Project. Minimal delays occurred because of the need for Bank approvals despite the large number of
   contracts and issues that required Bank review.

   The Bank was fully committed to the PMU arrangements and, with few exceptions, worked through the
   PMU for all loan administration matters. During site visits, the Bank reinforced the role of the PMU and
   the need to work through it to obtain all Bank approvals.

   In "refocusing" the transport planning TAs of Component A (see para 3, Section 5.1), it appears that the
   Bank's overriding concern was to speed up implementation of this the task and complete as much of it
   as possible by the original loan closing date (December 31, 2003). The Bank's motivation to produce
   outputs under this component was the existing incentive structure which based consultants' remuneration
   on time rather than outputs/outcomes. While the outputs were successfully produced, there was no
   buy-in by local governments into the importance of transport planning, and sustainable road
   development and preservation, and no ownership of the prepared plans.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
   The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
   The Borrower's preparation was satisfactory as evidenced by the design documentation prepared for the
   Project. The design covered adequate consideration of technical, financial, economic, institutional and
   environmental aspects including land acquisition and resettlement. Borrower commitment in general was
   strong. Many organizations were involved in the preparation phase. GoI's representatives were well
   supported by consultants and prepared a large number of planning studies.




                                                      - 16 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:
   Three levels of government were involved in the implementation of this Project: national, provincial and
   kabupaten and a number of agencies at each level. While the overall rating for the government
   performance is moderately unsatisfactory, national/provincial government performance is rated
   satisfactory and kabupaten government performance is rated as unsatisfactory.

   The national and provincial governments remained committed to the Project despite the lack of clarity in
   defining the planning roles following Law 22 on decentralization (see para 1, Section 5.2). The
   devolution of responsibilities to the kabupaten governments that came with this law eroded any influence
   that the provincial governments had in strengthening transport planning at the kabupaten level. One
   exception to the strong national government commitment was with respect to the vehicle overloading
   component where DGLT's commitment at times was weak.

   Many of the kabupaten governments were not convinced of the importance of transport planning,
   possibly because the Project did not succeed in creating the necessary awareness. As a result kabupatens
   conformed to the requirements of the Project in terms of developing certain transport plans, establishing
   planning groups, and performing the mandated routine maintenance to ensure their eligibility to
   participate in the Project. However, once the Project ended, so did the short-lived practice of transport
   planning; and annual work programs were no longer developed on an efficiency basis (using SK77).
   Moreover the misprocurement by the Bank of 32 contracts in 10 kabupatens (see para 5 in Section 5.2)
   contributes to the unsatisfactory rating of kabupaten governments.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
   In addition to DGH, the lead implementing agency, there were five other implementing agencies
   (BANGDA, BAPPEDA, DPUP, DPUK and DGLT). The performance of these agencies varied.
   Overall, the performance of these agencies is regarded as moderately satisfactory. Performance would
   have been rated satisfactory had it not been for the misprocurement on 32 contracts (see para 5 in
   Section 5.2 above).

   Among key achievements of implementing agencies was the implementation of the large civil works
   program (see Table 1) to an acceptable quality level. They also succeeded in improving detailed design
   and reducing cost variation orders over the life of the Project. Complex TA contracts were generally
   well managed. With a few exceptions, the PMU's performance on financial management was
   satisfactory and progress reports were furnished to the Bank in a timely fashion.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
   Overall performance of the borrower is moderately satisfactory. Indeed, national/provincial
   governments remained committed to the Project despite the difficult macroeconomic challenges facing
   the country and most of the planned outputs were achieved especially those related to improving
   national, provincial and kabupaten road networks and increasing the efficiency of resource use and
   service delivery. Nevertheless, the lack of commitment of local governments to transport and road
   planning has proven detrimental to the sustainability of the achievements of the Project, many of which
   have started to decline rapidly (see performance indicators in Annex 1).

8. Lessons Learned

1.       Cultivating a planning culture at the local level requires developing technical capacity as well
as raising public awareness
Strengthening technical capacity in planning and programming at the local level was not sufficient on its



                                                     - 17 -

own in developing the desired culture of transport and road planning as many investment decisions at the
local level were politicized. To help cultivate such a culture and to reduce the politicization of transport
planning decisions at the kabupaten level, capacity development has to be concurrently complemented by
campaigns to raise the awareness of the public of the different options for road budgeting and management.

2.       Central Government incentives are necessary to help develop a sustainable planning,
programming and maintenance culture at the local level
To be eligible for participation in SRRP, kabupatens committed to defining strategic networks, preparing
five year plans and meeting certain maintenance targets (see Assessment of Design in Section 3) throughout
the life of the Project. These practices were to a large extent dropped after Project completion. In order to
help institute a culture of planning and maintenance, the central government may wish to consider
leveraging its Special Allocation Fund (DAK) to reward kabupatens for sound transport planning practices.
Under such an incentive system, kabutpatens which institute, and use, good practices (including SK77)
would enjoy a larger share of DAK.

3.       Local governments need to be heavily involved in needs assessment and preparation
Lending programs are generally prepared on the basis of a needs assessment, studies and initiatives by the
central government, while consultations with local government agencies are low. Local governments
should prepare their own needs assessment (with central government support) and demonstrate how the
additional funds will be used to support their overall plans and programs.

4.       Alternative transport planning paradigms should be considered for the different provinces
The design of the Project provided for transport planning groups in each province. These TPGs were
intended to bring together planning agencies from the different government levels. In the case of Western
Sumatra, a relatively strong planning tradition existed and consequently there was no need for such a
group. It would be better to consider existing planning paradigms that local governments may have and to
build on them whenever possible instead of proposing new structures.

5.       Better plans for combating corruption are required and need to extend beyond the transport
sector
l GoI, the Bank and other development partners need to work together to develop pragmatic
    anti-corruption plans that take into account the typology and various dimensions of the problem and
    capacity at the different government levels. The impacts of efforts to limit corruption at the project
    level can be positive but will be limited if the issue is not addressed at a broader level in a systematic
    manner.
l One particular area requiring consideration is the large number of contracts awarded under a project.
    With the benefit of hindsight, it became clear that it was very difficult for implementation agencies to
    carefully review each contract as required due to lack of resources. Reducing the number of contracts,
    and having tighter controls in place could help in avoiding misprocurement problems. The percentage
    of contracts subject to post review by the Bank and their thresholds could also be varied to reflect the
    governance capacity and performance of different provinces and kabupatens.
l Due to ambiguity in roles and responsibilities of the different government levels in implementing
    projects under the deconcentration and decentralization laws, the fiduciary responsibility for a project
    may lay with either the local or central government. It is important that the responsible government
    level be identified from the outset to ensure that it has the capacity to discharge of its responsibilities
    effectively.

6.       In some instances it may be better to extend the loan to ensure effective implementation of an
institutional component


                                                      - 18 -

The TA packages regarding strengthening of transport planning at the kabupaten level were critical to the
sustainability of the Project's accomplishments. Consequently the need to extensively consult with local
governments to secure their input and to involve them in the design and implementation of the TAs was
necessary and indeed planned in the Project design. However due to implementation delays, the objective
shifted to producing outputs with less of a focus on participation by different stakeholders. This was a
main contributor to the failure of the Project to produce sustainable results in integrated transport planning
and management. In some instances, it would be better to extend the loan for the effective implementation
of an institutional component.

7.       Independence of construction supervision engineers is essential for high quality works
The supervision system followed under SRRP did not empower the supervision engineer to refuse work and
withhold payment. This authority rested with government-appointed project managers (PIMPROs). This
resulted in low quality works for some kabupaten roads. The problem has been recognized and has been
rectified in EIRTP2 with supervision engineers enjoying the independence and power to reject works and
withhold payments.

8.       Consultants' contracts should be more directly linked to outputs/outcomes than to inputs and
physical presence
The structure of some consultants' contracts under SRRP did not always provide the incentive to speed up
progress but allowed for front loading of staff which resulted in a large percentage of contractual cost spent
at an early stage of implementation without producing commensurate level of output. A balanced approach
which takes into account outputs/outcomes and levels of effort needs to considered.

9.       Simplified Design approach is inadequate
Simplified design standards were used as a basis for submitting proposals. These resulted in general
estimates which later resulted in design and cost adjustments (see para 6 in Section 5.3). As a result of the
Project, "Simplified Design" was replaced by "Final Design" and is now common practice in Indonesia.

Reporting lessons
10.      Non-Bank Financed (NBF) categories should be included in progress reports
NBF categories, particularly those that are financed by governments in their entirety sometime cease to be
reported despite being integral parts of the Project.

11.      Reporting should be by loan category as well as by project component
Reporting of project expenditures tends to be by loan category only and not by project component. Without
the actual cost of a project component, it is difficult to estimate its net benefits/costs and the overall
viability of the project components.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower/implementing agency has provided (i) comments on the Bank's ICR which are included in
their entirety; and (ii) GoI's ICR from which only excerpts pertainting to peformance and lessons learned
are included due to the length of GoI's ICR (41 pages).

Comments on the Bank's ICR

Even with the difficulties encountered during implementation, we are still of the opinion that the
achievement of objectives and outputs for SRRP should be regarded as satisfactory. This project was



                                                      - 19 -

implemented during the transition period between centralization and decentralization, when the there was a
lack of clarity within each agency regarding roles and responsibilities. Attitudes of kabupatens changed
dramatically during this period. The provincial governments lost their authority over kabupatens leaving the
kabupatens with the autonomy to control their future.

The concept of "Regional Approach" is a good approach but it will take time for the provinces and
kabupatens to mature sufficiently to enable them to successfully handle all of their new responsibilities.
Transport Planning Groups (TPGs) and other mechanisms that are supposed to ensure that these agencies
liaise closely for improved integrated transport planning, programming and budgeting cannot be developed
in the very short implementation period of this Project.

The supervision missions from the Bank were slow to react to situations. They appeared to just wait until
something happened even though they were aware of problems well ahead of the event. As an example, the
Bank only agreed to replace the Team Leader of Bappeda when the project was behind schedule by almost
30%. Refocusing was only agreed to late in the Project and at this late stage did not help much to increase
the important outputs of the project. The TPGs were a concept pushed by the Bank. It would have been
better to allow the Borrower to decide the best approach.

The Borrower was really disappointed with the audit process followed by the Bank for the Kabupaten
Roads component of the Project. The Bank conducted these in a secretive fashion and would not disclose
any findings to the Borrower during the implementation period. Because the Bank has not involved the
Borrower in this process and has been very slow to officially release these findings, the findings have
provided little benefit for the Borrower. Rather than providing lessons they are simply providing problems.
Those that could have learned from these findings have all relocated to other projects. The Bank audit also
gives the impression that the GOI is a bad institution and the Bank is not in any way responsible. The GOI
was under the impression that the Bank and GOI were to work together to improve all aspects of the
Project instead of the Bank acting simply as a law enforcer. The Bank has given the impression that the
successes of the Project are partially due to the Bank's inputs but that any failures of the Project are solely
the responsibility of the GOI. Audits undertaken during the Loan implementation period where findings are
also delivered in that same period can be a powerful tool and can be used as a "stick and carrot" incentive
to educate and encourage improvement in the implementing agencies. Audits completed where results are
delivered after loan completion achieve nothing.

The PMU did not have responsibility for ensuring that the procurement processes for post review packages
were adhered to. There was no requirement for PMU to ensure compliance and the PMU did not check for
compliance. Under the principles of decentralization, the provinces were regarded as mature enough to
undertake this task. This project was the first road project to be implemented after decentralization where
kabupatens and provinces had the autonomy to complete their own procurement. There is no doubt that as
the provinces and kabupatens mature, negative impacts such as misprocurement will reduce.

The declaration by the Bank midway through Project implementation period that SRRP was a "Problem
Project" was counterproductive to the Project and unnecessary. The Bank never provided reasons why the
project was to be called a "problem project". It appears that the reason was due to the level of disbursement
because when the disbursement rate improved the Bank relented and removed the classification. The Bank
gave no consideration to the reasons for slow disbursement. Because of the economic crisis of 1997/98 the
Loan was effectively frozen for the first 12 months and this meant that there was no disbursement for this
period. The Bank did not take this into consideration when declaring the Project a "Problem "Project".

The successfully implementation of Phase II of the Project, which focused on national and provincial roads,


                                                    - 20 -

was a good example of what can be achieved when there is good cooperation between the PMU and Bank
office in Jakarta. During this phase of the Project, the Bank and PMU worked closely together ensuring
that all contracts were treated as a full design contracts resulting in a decrease in contract variations from
an average 40% as achieved in Phase I to 10% in phase II. Quality also increased significantly. We
strongly recommend that this close co-operation be a feature of all projects.

Excerpts from the Government ICR

BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

Bank
The performance of the Bank on this project is regarded as highly satisfactory despite the difficult socio
and economic climate experienced throughout this project.

The Bank team had a broad skill base very appropriate to the key project tasks of transport planning and
project planning, design and implementation. Bank supervision was intensive averaging one supervision
mission every 6 months. The Bank also provided the services of safeguards and sector specialists from the
Jakarta office. The Bank was proactive and provided good support in financial and technical administration
of the Loan. Bank staff demonstrated good financial and technical knowledge and were sensitive to the
many issues and problems that occurred throughout the project. The Bank team members were given
adequate authority and minimal delays occurred because of the need for Bank approvals. Supervision
included field inspections which covered all provinces of Sumatera. Supervision reports were clear, detailed
and focused on quality assurance, effective resources utilisation and timely meeting of planned targets.

In the 1998 early 1999 period, the Bank assisted in identifying options for restructuring of the loan as a
result of the economic and financial crisis. The outcome of this included reduction of the loan value from
US $234 million to US $184 million and a reduction in TA consultant contract periods.

The Bank was fully committed to the PMU arrangements and generally worked through the PMU for all
loan administration matters. There were some cases where this did not happen but this was minimal. The
Bank did make an effort to visit all staff from provincial agencies and as many staff as possible from
kabupaten agencies. During these visits they reinforced the role of the PMU and the need to work through
them with regard to obtaining all Bank approvals.

In regard to sustainability of the project, the Bank had more limited impact. Although the Bank keenly
supported all components that impacted on sustainability they were not the major partner for this.

Borrower
Considering the difficult macroeconomic situation faced by the government, and the era of reformasi, which
saw rapid turnover of key staff, the government remained committed to the overall objective of the project.
Much of the planned outputs were achieved especially those related to improvement of the national,
provincial and kabupaten road networks and improvement of the use of resources and service delivery. The
performance of the Borrower on this project is therefore regarded as satisfactory.

Decentralisation
Decentralisation of management functions to appropriate administration levels was a key objective of
government policy. Decentralisation had created a plethora of agencies with general road administration,
transport planning, contract administration, construction supervision management, maintenance
management and social and environmental management responsibilities. These agencies were widely


                                                    - 21 -

dispersed in terms of their geography, sub-sectoral scope and locus within the overall government structure.
There remains a lack of clarity within each agency regarding roles and responsibilities with respect to
transport planning. Also the appropriate mechanisms that ensure that these agencies liaise closely such that
transport planning, programming and budgeting are mutually compatible to maintain and develop an
integrated transport system have not been fully established. It is accepted that there is a continuing need
for management upgrading within provincial and district governments and welcomes the Bank's support
and advice on how this problem might be resolved.

Preparation
The Borrowers preparation was highly satisfactory as evidenced by the design documentation prepared for
the project. The design covered adequate consideration of technical, financial, economic, institutional and
environmental aspects including land acquisition and resettlement. Borrower commitment was strong.
Many organisations were involved in the preparation phase. The government representatives were well
supported by consultants. Project preparation consisted of a large number of activities including planning
studies, feasibility studies, and engineering designs for kabupaten, provincial and central roads for both
periodic maintenance, rehabilitation and new works.

Implementing Agency Performance
The Government faced difficult macroeconomic situations throughout the early phase of this project. This
impacted on the performance of all implementing agencies resulting in an uneven performance.
Notwithstanding this the overall performance of these Implementing Agencies is regarded as satisfactory.
The provincial and local government agencies associated with the             implementation of sub projects
performed well with successful implementation of the large civil works program consisting of 5,661 km of
kabupaten periodic maintenance, 1443 km of kabupaten betterment, 223 km of national/provincial road
minor widening and 33.4 km of national/provincial road capacity expansion completed. The management of
quality was acceptable however it was noted that further efforts need to be provided to improve quality.
Although design detailing and the limiting of variations was a concern in the early phase of the project, this
was better controlled in the later phase. The TA contracts were well managed.

Regional Transport Planning
Road planning competency was good at central level and well managed by Bappenas. The level of road
planning competency in most provincial administrations was not as good. Respect for road planning,
programming and budgeting activity by district level decision makers is still not at a suitable level.
Consequently planning initiatives are few and this capability needs further strengthening.

Transport Planning Groups and supporting inter-agency working groups were set up in the provinces as the
result of SRRP TA activity but, for the most part, they did not reach a level of activity or create an impact
that indicates that they will be sustained in the absence of the SRRP TA consultants.

LESSONS LEARNED

Legal and Institutional Structure

(a) Decentralization has created a plethora of agencies with transport planning and environmental
management responsibilities. These agencies are widely dispersed in terms of geography, sub-sectoral
scope and locus within the overall government structure. There remains a lack of clarity within each agency
regarding roles and responsibilities with respect to transport planning. Also the appropriate mechanisms
that ensure that these agencies liaise closely such that transport planning, programming and budgeting are
mutually compatible to maintain and develop an integrated transport system have not been fully


                                                     - 22 -

established.

(b) Provincial and District administrations were weak in legal capability to develop their own regulations
supporting clear division of responsibilities. This is being addressed by Government through
decentralisation legislation and training.

(c) The present institutional set-up has eliminated central government from any guiding or influencing role
over road works budgeting, particularly at district level. As a result budgets are too low for road network
preservation in most districts and inefficient distribution of funds between preservation works and higher
profile road construction are generally inappropriate for cost-efficient preservation of road networks.

(d) The present institutional structure is over-fragmented geographically, vertically and horizontally, with
insufficiently strong conduits for inter-agency communication. Provincial Transport Planning Groups were
formed to strengthen integration at the planning and programming stages of development. However it is at
provincial level where decentralisation has eroded responsibilities and therefore undermined the potential
for these groups to work together effectively.

(e) One of the main constraints on a coordinated approach to regional transport sector planning was the law
on regional autonomy. The law itself does not set out the role, function and responsibility of each
organization, nor, the structure and staffing of a planning organisation, nor, the qualifications and
experience for the personnel of the organisation. No mention is made of the duties each has to perform or
the level of responsibility or accountability of the members of the organisation. There is no guidance of the
financial reporting systems to be used or the databases to be developed for the management and
performance monitoring of development and preservation of the road networks in the provinces. There
needs to be a fully coordinated institutional review of the transport sector to rationalise the tasks of supply,
financing and regulation.

Planning Competency

(a) Road planning competency is good at central level. However, the principle tool employed, the IIRMS
system, is complex and demands a large volume of data. If the database is not maintained, the output of
IIRMS is undermined in reliability and therefore often distrusted. The linkages between the sources of data,
particularly that referring to the district road networks, and the operators of IIRMS are weak.

(b) The level of road planning competency in most provincial and kabupaten administrations is not
developed. IIRMS and SK77 as planning tools are not generally being used outside of loan projects.

(c) Respect for road planning, programming and budgeting activity by district level decision makers is
minimal. Consequently planning initiatives are few and capability remains weak. This may change as
district road conditions deteriorate and the reasons for this deterioration is sought by the elected
representatives from the road management and planning agencies. SRRP developed and used standard
procedures to prepare 3 year Rolling Programmes and 5 and 10 yr plans for most kabupatens. These
showed the likely effects of current budgeting policies.

A campaign to raise public and elected representatives' awareness of options for road budgeting and
management is required.




                                                      - 23 -

Transport Planning Incentives

(a) Transport planning incentives for road planning were less than desired. Where planning has been
carried out, the results are distrusted or ignored or not implemented because of budget constraints. The
result has been a reluctance to commit resources to planning and programming activities for and by the
relevant agencies.

(b) At central government level planning activity has been sustained at a greater intensity than in the
provinces and districts. However, the influence on the works programmes and budgets progressively
declines from National network preservation and development through that for Provincial networks to those
of the districts where the influence is weakest.

(c) At provincial level and district levels of road management, planning activities were limited mainly to
general statements on policy and the preparation of annual works programmes.

Transport Planning Groups

(a) Transport Planning Groups were formed in provinces and all but one (Lampung) support continuation.
All were formed by Governor's Decree, except that in Lampung, which was formed by Decree of the Head
of Bappeda.

(b) Inter-provincial coordination and liaison in transport planning remains weak. A Sumatera Region
Transport Planning Group should be formed and should meet on a regular basis.

Community Participation

(a) Transport users and service providers were inadequately consulted during the preparation of road works
programmes. This can be attributed to the lack of plans and, where they exist, to their lack of publication.
Their dissemination would provoke a reaction from users and service providers. Transport plans should be
placed in the public domain by way of press conferences, media articles and placed on the web. Transport
planning agencies should ensure that they consult transport users and service providers during the
preparation of plans and follow up comments after the publication of plans.

The Role of Lending Institutions

(a) SRRP planning work concluded that local funds will be insufficient to maintain the road network in
Sumatera. Lending agencies will be needed to assist the provinces and districts in Sumatera for the
foreseeable future if the road networks are not to deteriorate.

(b) Lending programmes are generally prepared on the basis of initiatives and assessment of need by
central government. The latter is usually the result of studies commissioned from consultants to central
government. As a result consultation with local government agencies is low and there was no requirements
on local government to prepare their own assessment of need or to demonstrate how the additional funds
will be used to support their overall plans and programmes.

Planning Tools

(a) Complex planning tools such as IIRMS remain inappropriate for use in the provinces. However, IIRMS


                                                      - 24 -

should not be abandoned at central level because it has a potentially useful role in cross-checking the
results of planning, programming and budgeting at provincial and district level.

(b) The Kabupaten Road Planning Guidelines (SK77) have proved to be adequate and appropriate for short
term works programming by kabupaten staff. However they are dependent on the provision of externally
prepared cost and benefit look-up tables. An alternative method whereby cost and benefit tables could be
prepared by the kabupatens should be studied and guidelines prepared and distributed.

Use of Consultants

(a) Given the low levels of planning activity and capability, particularly at provincial and district level, the
use of consultants was a necessary pre-requisite to kick start the preparation of transport plans. Therefore
in the future, it is expected that the use of consultants will continue.

(b) SRRP planning activities involved the deployment of three sets of consultants in addition to that
included in the PMUC contract. To a large extent this was determined by the need to provide technical
assistance to four sets of agencies (Bappenas, Bappeda province and MHA as well as DGRI). Under these
arrangements, clearly defined Terms of Reference (ToR) are required for each and a clear understanding on
behalf of the client agencies of the roles of each consultant are required. In SRRP, the Terms of Reference
were insufficiently specific in this regard leading to misunderstandings by both clients and the consultants.
A lot of time and effort was consumed during the project to clarify the roles and duties of each consultant
in the overall structure of the project.

Construction

(a) There were too many design reviews. This was a result of doubtful design or changing good designs to
meet budgets without reducing length.

(b) The specification needs to be reviewed to reflect current work practices.

(c) Many of the supervision consultant staff had limited knowledge of the conditions of contract and
specification and in many cases it was not followed.

(d) In some cases, provinces and kabupatens failed to comply with Bank requirements especially those
relating to notification and advertising of prequalification/bids, bidding period and bid opening procedures.
Training of procurement committees should form part of all projects whether loan or non loan. This
training should be reinforced with instructional material.

Road Traffic Safety and Vehicle Weights and Dimensions Enforcement

(a) There was not a clear definition of roles on this project for Dinas Perhubungan staff. When drafting a
revised 22/1999, all sectoral ministries should prepare new or revised sectoral laws which will directly and
comprehensively specify functional assignments for central, provincial and local governments for all
components of the sector.

(b) Provincial staff from Dinas Perhubungan carrying out traffic engineering and road safety functions did
not have the appropriate traffic engineering background.

(b) Cofinanciers:



                                                      - 25 -

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                             - 26 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix




                                        - 27 -

Project                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Base-       Targets and Actual Performance
                                                                                                         Performance indicators     Type                                                                                              Measurement unit
outputs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             line 12/2000 12/2001 12/2002 12/2003 12/2004

                                                                                                     A 5.2 NP Availability of                                                                                                        % of plans prepared Target (T)          0%     33%      43%      100%   100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0%
                                                                                                               medium term                                                                                                                               Actual (A)         43%     48%      61%       76%    37%
                                                                                                               Nat./Prov. road        Impact                                                                                                             A/T (%)             0%   144%      142%       76%    37%
                                                                                                               plans
  Regional                                                                                                     Availability of                                                                                                       % of plans prepared Target (T)          0%     20%      83%      100%   100%
          A.                                                                     integration         A 5.2 K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0%
                                                                                                               medium term Kab.                                                                                                                          Actual (A)         39%     54%      62%       79%    39%
                                                                                                               road plans                   Impact                                                                                                       A/T (%)             0%   275%       75%       79%    39%
                                                                                                     B 1.2 NP National / Provincial                                                                                                  % of National /     Target (T)         89%     90%      91%       92%    93%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     87%
                                                                                                               road serviceability                                                                                                   Provincial          Actual (A)         84%     77%      76%       72%    69%
                                                                                                                                                  Impact                                                                             constructed network A/T (%)            94%     86%      84%       78%    74%
                                                                                                     B 1.2 K   Kabupaten strategic                                                                                                   in good condition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     % of Kab. Strategic Target (T)         75%     85%      90%       95%   100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     60%
                                                                                                               road serviceability                                                                                                   Network in AWP      Actual (A)         61%     50%      47%       49%    25%
                                                                                                                                                        Impact                                                                                           A/T (%)            81%     59%      53%       52%    25%
                                           Networks                                                  B 1.3 NP Economic return                                                                                                        % of works          Target (T)        100%   100%      100%      100%   100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    100%
                                                                                                               from Nat./Prov.                                                                                                       following           Actual (A)         76%     82%      85%       86%    50%
                                                   Road                                                                                                       Impact
                                                       of                                                      road works                                                                                                            econ.evaluations    A/T (%)            76%     82%      85%       86%    50%
                                                                                                     A 1.1 K   Planning                                                                                                              % planning          Target (T)         65%     70%      75%       80%    85%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     63%
                                                                                                               performance for                                                                                                       procedures followed Actual (A)         70%     71%      72%       78%    22%
                                                                                                               Kabupaten road                                       Impact                                                                               A/T (%)           108%   101%       96%       97%    26%
                                                                                                               Accuracy of
                                                                                                               works programs
                                                         Development                                 A 2.2 K                                                                                                                         % data accuracy     Target (T)         70%     70%      75%       80%    85%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     69%
                                                                    B.                                         kabupaten road                                                                                                                            Actual (A)                          68%       75%    61%
                                                                                                               inventory                                                  Impact                                                                         A/T (%)                             90%       94%    71%
                                                                                                     A 3.2 K   Kabupaten road                                                                                                        % of design         Target (T)         60%     70%      85%       95%   100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     60%
                                                                                                               design performance                                                                                                    procedures followed Actual (A)         67%     61%      64%       89%    55%
                                                                                                                                                                                Impact                                                                   A/T (%)           112%     87%      76%       93%    55%
                                                                                                     D 6.1 NP Staff resources for                                                                                                    % of provinces with Target (T)         82%     83%      85%       87%    89%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     72%
                                                                                                               National / Provincial                                                                                                 DPUP staffing       Actual (A)         36%     33%      38%       29%    51%
                                                                                                               roads                                                                  Impact                                         within 20% of the   A/T (%)            43%     40%      45%       34%    58%
            service
                                                                                                     D 6.1 K   Staff resources for                                                                                                   "average"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     % of kabupaten      Target (T)         70%     72%      75%       80%    85%
                   and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               49%
                                                                                                               Kabupaten roads                                                                                                       with DPUK staff     Actual (A)         49%     14%      27%       26%    60%
                                                                                                                                                                                            Impact                                   within 20% of the   A/T (%)            70%     20%      36%       33%    71%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     "average"
                      allocation                                                            delivery C 2.2 NP Traffic Accident                                                                                                       Rate per 10,000     Target (T)         9.91    9.91     9.71      9.42   8.95
                                                                                                               Fatality rate per                                                                                                     vehicles                       9.91
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Actual (A)        10.07    9.20     8.59      7.72   7.62
                                                                                                               10,000 vehicles                                                                    Impact                                                 A/T (%)           102%     93%      88%       82%    85%
                                Resources                                                            C 1.3.1   % of truck traffic                                                                                                    % of target         Target (T)        100%   100%      100%      100%   100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    100%
                                         C.                                                          NP        operating exceeding                                                                                                   reduction rate      Actual (A)                                             0%
                                                                                                               axle - load limits                                                                       Outcome                                          A/T (%)                                                0%

                                                                                                     B 1.1 NP Completion of SRRP                                                                                                     % of total program Target (T)    0%     0%      0%      50%      100%   100%
                                                                                                               assisted works on                                                                                                                         Actual (A)          0%      0%      23%       53%   100%
                                                                                                               National / Provincial                                                                           Outcome                                   A/T (%)         100%    100%        46%       53%   100%
                                                                                                     B 1.1 K   roads
                                                                                                               Completion of SRRP                                                                                                    % of total program Target (T)          28%     58%     100%      100%   100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0%
                                                                      Outputs                                  assisted works on                                                                                                                         Actual (A)         26%     57%      96%     99.9%   100%
                                                                                                               kabupaten roads                                                                                                                           A/T (%)            95%     98%      96%      100%   100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Outcome
                                                                             SRRP
                                                                                                     E 1 TA    Technical Assistance                                                                                                  % of total outputs  Target (T)          8%     33%      77%       94%   100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0%
                                                                                                               outputs                                                                                                               completed           Actual (A)          8%     32%      68%       94%   99.7%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Outcome satisfactorily      A/T (%)           100%     96%      89%      100%   100%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component
                                                              Appraisal     Actual/Latest     Percentage
                      Component                               Estimate      Estimate (US$     of Appraisal
                                                             (US$ million)     million)

A1. Support Bappenas transport planning and
management guidance                                              0.6             0.638             1.06

A2. Develop Strategic transport planning in project
area                                                             9.5             8.408             0.89

A3. Improve annual planning-programming in project
area                                                             0.5             0.476             0.95

B1. Regional road network preservation                           202.8           183.91            0.91

B2. Regional road network development                            143.9           16.82             0.12

C1. Enhance quality and technical efficiency                     2.4             1.040             0.43

C2. Support implementation of road traffic and
transport policy                                                 9.6             8.00              0.83

Total Project Cost (including contingencies)                     369.3           219.29            0.59

Total Financing Required                                         369.3           219.29            0.59



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                              1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                   2           N.B.F.          Total Cost
                                                                          Other
1. Works                              91.80              183.90            0.00              63.70            339.40
                                     (69.00)            (137.90)          (0.00)            (0.00)            (206.90)
2. Goods                               3.00               0.50             0.20              0.00               3.70
                                      (2.60)             (0.50)           (0.20)            (0.00)             (3.30)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00            26.20              0.00              26.20
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)          (23.80)            (0.00)            (23.80)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00               0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00               0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00               0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)
   Total                              94.80              184.40           26.40              63.70            369.30
                                     (71.60)            (138.40)         (24.00)            (0.00)            (234.00)



 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

   Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff



                                                      - 29 -

 2/

   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)


                  Expenditure Category                              Procurement Method               NBF*       Total Cost
                                                                    ICB            NCB     Other

                                                                    19.7          165.3               17.4         202.4
1. Works                                                           (18.3)        (143.7)                          (162.0)
                                                                                    1.3                             1.3
2. Goods                                                                           (1.3)                           (1.3)
                                                                                            15.6                    15.6
3. Services                                                                                (15.6)                  (15.6)
                                                                    19.7          166.6     15.6      17.4         219.3
Total                                                              (18.3)        (145.0)   (15.6)                 (178.9)
* NBF: USD 13.1 million for core maintenance program; USD 4.3 million for land acquisition and resettlement



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                              Percentage of
                  Component                         Appraisal Estimate         Actual/Latest Estimate            Appraisal

                                                     Bank      Govt. CoF       Bank      Govt.      CoF    Bank Govt. CoF
A1. Support Bappenas transport planning
and management guidance                              0.60       0.00           0.64      0.00               1.06
A2. Develop Strategic transport planning in
project area                                         8.60       0.90           8.41      0.00               0.98     0.00
A3. Improve annual planning-programming
in project area                                      0.50                      0.48                         0.95
B1. Regional road network preservation               113.20    89.60           149.66    34.25              1.32     0.38
B2. Regional road network development                100.70    43.20           10.90     5.91               0.11     0.14

C1. Enhance quality and technical efficiency         2.20       0.20           1.04      0.00               0.47     0.00
C2. Support implementation of road traffic
and transport policy                                 8.20       1.40           7.72      0.28               0.94     0.20




                                                       - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

  As explained in the PAD the benefits of improved efficiency were hard to quantify. Consequently the
  focus of the estimation was Bank-financed road works. This included both national/provincial roads
  and kabupaten roads. There should have been an estimate, even if just indicative, of the benefits
  associated with the GoI-financed core maintenance program in the kabupatens, as well as of reduction in
  overloading. Moreover, to help increase the appreciation of planning and programming, it would have
  been useful to compare returns to annual work programs (AWPs) developed on the basis of the
  efficiency criteria promoted by the Project to the returns of AWPs as identified by kabupatens prior to
  the Project.

  Methodology
  Investments were evaluated following the standard cash flow approach. Costs included construction and
  maintenance, and benefits included saving to all road users. Financial values were converted to
  economic resource values. Construction costs included supervision and physical contingencies estimated
  at 4 and 10 percent respectively of the total. Benefits included vehicle operating cost and time savings.
  Vehicle operating costs used were developed under the Inter-urban Road Management System (IRMS)
  for national and provincial roads and under the Kabupaten Roads Economic Evaluation Model
  (KREEM) for kabupaten roads. Time savings were a function of the average number of passengers per
  vehicle and the value of time. While the main assumptions are plausible, spreadsheets were not
  available to verify actual estimations.

  National/Provincial Roads
  IRMS was used to identify the economic viability of the preservation and capacity expansion projects on
  national/provincial roads based on the economic internal rate of return (EIRR). This formed part of the
  screening process to define specific investments in each AWP. When IRMS data on road condition and
  traffic levels was suspect and where the proposed type of works differed significantly from the IRMS
  output, better data on road condition and traffic level was sought during the screening phase of the
  Project.

  Due to lack of resources, traffic was not measured after implementation completion. The EIRR
  calculations in Table A3.1 below are based on the same traffic data and projections used at the time of
  screening but on actual construction costs. Consequently, and given that traffic projections have not
  been updated, there is a larger degree of uncertainty surrounding the projected returns. Nevertheless, the
  returns are high enough to withstand significant drops in traffic volumes from what was projected.

  Table A3.1: Economic Internal Rates of Return (EIRRs)--Pre-implementation and Post
  Completion*
                               Phase 1**                          Phase 2**                        Phases 1 & 2**
                              EIRR (Actual)                      EIRR (Actual)                      EIRR (Actual)
                      Pre-implementation Post-completion Pre-implementation Post-completion Pre-implementation Post-completion

Betterment                 82%               81%              77%               88%              79%               85%
Minor Widening             55%               50%              71%               86%              59%               58%
Capacity                                                      21%               23%              21%               23%
Expansion
All                                                                                              61%               64%
  * Post completion EIRRs are based on pre-implementation traffic values and actual costs.
  ** The fluctuation in exchange rates over the life of the Project resulted in two phases for sub-project
  screening and identification. Initially, it was believed that only 313.7 kms would be financed under the


                                                         - 31 -

Project. When it was later realized that there would sufficient funds to finance more works, an
additional 252.2 Kms of preservation works and 33.8 Kms of capacity expansion works were
implemented as phase 2. The initial 313.7 Kms constituted phase 1.

Kabupaten Roads:
The Technical Guidelines for Planning and Programming of Kabupaten Roads (SK77) were used to
determine the economic viability of betterment projects based on a positive Economic Net Present Value
(ENPV) for each project at a 15% discount rate.

Similar to the case of national/provincial roads, the ENPV calculations provided in Table A3.2 use the
same traffic data and projections utilized at the time of initial screening, and the actual construction
costs. It was not possible to estimate pre-implementation ENPVs because the pre-construction planned
costs are no longer available.

Table A3.s: Economic Net Present Value per Km for Kabupaten Betterment Projects
                                                              ENPV (Rp millions/km)
AWP 1999/2000                                                           224.82
AWP2000                                                                 185.05
AWP 2001                                                                313.46
All AWPs                                                                235.61




                                                   - 32 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              04/1996                   5    1 Transport Specialist, 1             S               S
                                             Highway Engineer, 1 Transport
                                             Economist, 1 Environmental
                                             Specialist and 1 Operations
                                             Officer
              07/1996                   4    1 Transport Specialist, 1             S               S
                                             Highway Engineer, 1 Transport
                                             Economist and 1 Operations
                                             Officer
              10/1996                   6    1 Transport Specialist, 1             S               S
                                             Highway Engineer, 1 Transport
                                             Economist, 1 Policy/Institutional
                                             Specialist (Indonesia Sector
                                             Coordinator), 1 Operations
                                             Officer, 1 Transport Planning
                                             Specialist and 1 Economist
              03/1997                   6    1 Transport Specialist, 1             S               S
                                             Highway Engineer, 1 Transport
                                             Economist, 1 Policy/Institutional
                                             Specialist (Indonesia Sector
                                             Coordinator), 1 Operations
                                             Officer and 1 Transport Planning
                                             Specialist

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/1997                   8    1 Transport Specialist, 1             S               S
                                             Highway Engineer, 1
                                             Transport Economist, 1
                                             Policy/Institutional Specialist
                                             (Indonesia Sector
                                             Coordinator), 1 Operations
                                             Officer, 2 Environmental
                                             Specialists and 1
                                             Social/Resettlement/Land
                                             Acquisition Specialist

 Supervision

              10/1998                   6    1 Transport Specialist, 2             U               S
                                             Highway Engineers, 1 Transport
                                             Economist, 1 Policy/Institutional
                                             Specialist (Indonesia Sector
                                             Coordinator), and 1 Operations
                                             Officer
              03/1999                   4    1 Transport Specialist, 1             S               S
                                             Highway Engineer, 1 Transport




                                              - 33 -

                 Economist, and 1 Operations
                 Officer
07/1999        4 1 Transport Specialist, 1           S    S
                 Construction Engineer/
                 Procurement Specialist, 1
                 Highway Engineer, and 1
11/1999        5 1 Transport Specialist, 1           S    S
                 Construction Engineer/
                 Procurement Specialist, 1
                 Highway Engineer, 1
                 Policy/Institutional Specialist
                 (Indonesia Sector Coordinator)
                 and 1 Operations Officer
05/2000        4 1 Transport Specialist, 1           S    S
                 Construction Engineer/
                 Procurement Specialist, 1
                 Highway Engineer, and 1
                 Policy/Institutional Specialist
                 (Indonesia Sector Coordinator)
10/2000        4 1 Transport Specialist, 1           S    S
                 Construction Engineer/
                 Procurement Specialist, 1
                 Highway Engineer, and 1
                 Transport Economist
02-03//2001    5 1 Transport Specialist, 1           S    S
                 Construction Engineer/
                 Procurement Specialist, 1
                 Highway Engineer, 1
                 Policy/Institutional Specialist
                 (Indonesia Sector Coordinator)
                 and 1 Financial Management
                 Specialist
11-12/2001     3 1 Transport Specialist, 1           U    U
                 Construction Engineer/
                 Procurement Specialist and 1
                 Policy/Institutional Specialist
                 (Indonesia Sector Coordinator)
05-06/2002     6 1 Transport Specialist, 1           U    U
                 Construction Engineer/
                 Procurement Specialist, 1
                 Policy/Institutional Specialist
                 (Indonesia Sector Coordinator), 2
                 Environmental/Social Specialists
                 and 1 Financial Management
                 Specialist
09/2002        6 1 Transport Specialist, 1           S    U
                 Construction Engineer/
                 Procurement Specialist, 1
                 Policy/Institutional Specialist
                 (Indonesia Sector Coordinator), 2
                 Environmental/Social Specialists
                 and 1 Financial Management
                 Specialist



                 - 34 -

               04-05/2003                  4   1 Transport Specialist, 1            S    S
                                               Construction Engineer/
                                               Procurement Specialist, 1 Social/
                                               Land Acquisition/Resettlement
                                               Specialist and 1 Financial
                                               Management Specialist
               10-11/2003                  3   1 Transport Specialist, 1            S    S
                                               Construction Engineer/
                                               Procurement Specialist and 1
                                               Social/ Land Acquisition/
                                               Resettlement Specialist
               09-10/2004                  3   1 Transport Specialist, 1            S    S
                                               Construction Engineer/
                                               Procurement Specialist and 1
                                               Transport Economist/ICR
                                               Specialist
               03/2005                     1   1 Transport Specialist               S    S

 ICR
               09-10/2004                 3     1 Transport Specialist, 1           S    S
                                                Construction Engineer/
                                                Procurement Specialist and
                                                1 Transport Economist/ICR
                                                Specialist



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                     No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                N/A                              N/A
  Appraisal/Negotiation                     N/A                            339.5
  Supervision                               81.8                           497.3
  ICR                                      11.34                             45.6
  Total                                    93.14                           882.4
Information on Bank resources expended before FY00 is no longer available.




                                                - 35 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 Borrower's Completion Report, Sumatera Region Road Project - December 2005 ­ (IBRD
 Loan No. 4307-IND).

 Country Assistance Strategy for Indonesia: World Bank Report No. 16691-IND. June 13,
 1997.

 Declaration of Misprocurement of 32 Contracts, Sumatra Region Roads (Project Loan Number
 4307-UND) ­ April 17, 2006.

 Draft Final Report on Performance Indicators, Sumatera Region Road Project - October 2004
 (IBRD Loan No.17331-IND).

 Draft Kabupaten Road Strategic Plans and three year rolling programs, West Sumatera - April
 17, 2003 ­ (IBRD Loan No. 4307-IND).

 Final Report: Sumatera Region Road Project ­ 2004 ­ (IBRD Loan No. 4307-IND).

 Loan Agreement (Northern Sumatra Region Road Project) between Republic of Indonesia and
 IBRD, May 1, 1998.

 Project Appraisal Document, Northern Sumatra Region Road Project - January 20, 1998-
 (Report No. 17331-IND).

 Project Implementation Plan (PIP), Northern Sumatra Region Road Project - Final Draft
 -September 26th 1997.

 Regional Roads Transport Priorities Analysis Study (RRTPA), Executive Summary, December
 1996.

 Regional Roads Transport Priorities Analysis Study (RRTPA) Summary of main report phase 1
 September 1996.

 TOR for Consultancies under NSRRP ­ to be used in RPF preparation (Final Draft September
 26th 1997) (IBRD Loan No. 4307-IND).

 World Bank Aide Memories and Project Status Reports (1997-2005).




                                            - 38 -

           95°                                100°                                  105°
                                                   THAILAND

                                                                                                                                               INDONESIA

               Banda Aceh                                                                                            NORTHERN SUMATERA REGION
                                                                                                                                        ROAD PROJECT
         5°                           Strait                                                                    5°                  PARTICIPATING PROVINCES

                                                         M A L AY S I A
                                            of                                                                                               PROJECT PROVINCES
                                              Malacca                                                                                        PROVINCE (PROPINSI) CAPITALS
                                      Medan
              D.I. ACEH                                                                                                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                             PROVINCE (PROPINSI) BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                                                                               SINGAPORE
                                                                                  Tanjungpinang
                           SUMATERA                     R I A U
                                                  Pekanbaru                               RIAU
                              UTARA                                                  KEPULAUAN
         0°                                                                                                     0°




                                      SUMATERA
                                         BARAT        Padang        JAMBI
                                                                           Jambi

                                                                                                 Pangkalpinang
                                                                                                                      This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                 BANGKA-              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                 BELITUNG             shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank

                                                                          Palembang                                   Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                      endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                       SUMATERA
                                                                        SELATAN
                                                            Bengkulu                                                                   C H I N A                           N O R T H PA C I F I C

                                                                                                                                                                                   O C E A N
                   I N D I A N                               BENGKULU                                               MYANMAR
                                                                                                                               LAO
                                                                                                                               P.D.R.


                                                                                                                           THAILAND                                       P h i l i p p i n e
                                                                                                                                          VIETNAM
         5°                                                                    LAMPUNG                          5°                CAMBODIA                                      S e a
                                                                                                                    Andaman                               PHILIPPINES
                    O C E A N                                                            Bandar Lampung               Sea
                                                                                                                             Gulf of
                                                                                                                             Thailand
                                                                                                                                                                                        PALAU
                                                                                                                                                BRUNEI

                                                                                                     Jakarta                      M A L A Y S I A

                                                                                                                                    SINGAPORE
                                                                                                     J A W A
                             0 100 200 300  400 500 KILOMETERS                                                          Area                     Java Sea                                       P.N.G. IBRD

JUL                                                                                                                   of map    Jakarta        I N D O N E S I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                           29149R
   Y                                                                                                                                                                 TIMOR-  Arafura Sea
    2006                                                                                                                                                              LESTE

           95°                                100°                                  105°                               INDIAN      OCEAN                      Timor Sea
                                                                                                                                                                         AUSTRALIA

