Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17331 -IND
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$234 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
NORTHERN SUMATRA REGION ROAD PROJECT
JANUARY 20, 1998
Transport Sector Unit
Indonesia Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 1997)
Currency Unit   Rupiah (Rp.)
US$1.00 = Rp. 3,500
FISCAL YEAR
April l-March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMDAL                  -       Government Procedures :for Environmental Management
AWP                    -      Annual Works Program
BANGDA                 -      Directorate General of Regional Development (MHA)
BAPPEDA                -      Provincial Development IPlanning Board
BAPPENAS               -      National Development Planning Agency
DLLAJ                  -      Provincial Road Traffic and Transport Office
DGH                    -      Directorate General of Highways (MPW)
DGRD                   -      Directorate General of Regional Development
DPUK/P                 -      Kabupaten /Provincial Public Works Office
EMMP                   -      Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan
GOI                    -      Government of Indonesia
ERR                    -      Economic Rate of Return
Kabupaten              -       Autonomous Level II local Government (District)
KREEM                  -      Kabupaten Road Economic Evaluation Module
KR3, KREI, KR5         -      Kabupaten Road Development Projects
MHA                    -      Ministry of Home Affairs
MOC                    -       Ministry of Communications
MPW                    -       Ministry of Public Works
MOF                    -      Ministry of Finance
PIM                    -       Project Implementation Memorandum
PMU                    -      Project Management Unit
REPELITA               -      Indonesian Five Year Development Plan
Vice President:              Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:            Dennis De Tray
Sector Manager:              Jeffrey Gutm an
Task Manager:                Jacques Tolli6



Indonesia
Northern Sumatra Region Road Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
A.    Project Development Objective  ......................................................2
1.  Project development objective and key performance indicators ....................................................... 2
B.    Strategic Context ......................................................2
1.   Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ............................                 .................................2
2.   Main sector issues and Government strategy  ...................                      ..........................................2
3.   Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ....................................................4
C.    Project Description  Summary  .......................................................5
1.  Project components  .............................................................5
2.  Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ..........................................................5
3.   Benefits and target population ............................................................5
4.   Institutional and implementation arrangements .......................                    ......................................5
-).    Project Rationale .....................................................7
1.  Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .............................................................        7
2.   Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ..............                        ..............8
3.   Lessons learnt and reflected in the project design  ............................              .................................9
4.   Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .                      .............................................................9
5.   Value added of Bank support in this project ...................                     ..........................................9
E.      Summary  Project Analysis ...................................................... 10
1.  Economic ............................................................  10
2.   Financial ............................................................  10
3.   Technical ............................................................  10
4.   Institutional ............................................................  12
5.  Social ............................................................                                                          13
6.  Environmental assessment ............................................................  13
7.  Participatory approach ............................................................ 14



Page No.
F. Sustainability and Risks ......................                                           14
1. Sustainabi lity.14
2. Critical risks .15
3. Possible controversial aspects .16
G. Main Loan Conditions ........            ..............    .                              16
1. Effectiveness conditions .16
2. Other.16
H. Readiness for Implementation .16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .16
ANNEXES
Annex 1. Project Design Summary .17
Annex 2. Detailed Project Description .19
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs .22
Annex 4. Cost Benefit Analysis Summary .23
Annex 5. Financial Summary .28
Annex 6.   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .29
Table A. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .31
Table B. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .32
Table C. Allocation of Loan Proceeds .33
Annex 7.   Roles and Responsibilities of Agencies involved in Project Implementation .34
Annex 8.   Financial Reporting and Auditing Framework .35
Annex 9.  Project Processing Budget and Schedule .38
Annex 10.  Documents in the Project File .....................                               39
Annex 11. Statement of Loans and Credits .40
Annex 12. Country at a Glance .42
Map: IBRD 29149 .44



Indonesia
Northern Sumatra Region Road Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
Indonesia Country Management Unit
Date: January 20, 1998                          Task Team Leader: Jacques Tollie
Country Director: Dennis De Tray                Sector Manager: Jeffrey S. Gutman
Project ID: ID-PE-3993  Sector: Transportation  Program Objective Category: EN
Lending Instrument: SIL                         Program of Targeted Intervention:   [   Yes  [x] No
Project Financing Data               [x  Loan       [] Credit      [] Guarantee       [  Other
[Specify]
Amount (US$m): 234.0
Proposed terms:                      []   Multicurrency   [x]  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years):   3      []   Standard         [x]  Fixed        []     LIBOR-based
Variable
Years to maturity:    15
Commitment fee:   0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                     Local                Foreign              Total
Government                 114.1                21.2                   135.3
IBRD                       102.1               131.9                  234.0
Total       216.2                153.1                  369.3
Borrower:           Republic of Indonesia
Guarantor:
Responsible agencies: - Directorate General of Highways (DGH)
- Provincial and District Goverments in the four Provinces of: Aceh, North Sumatra, Riau,
and Sumatra
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
Annual    8        17       45        75       68       21
Cumulative     8      25       70       145      213      234
Expected effectiveness date: May 1998                               Closing date: December 31, 2003



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 2                     Northem Sumatra Region Road Project
A: PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The project aims at improving transport efficiency and accessibility within the four provinces of the Northern
Sumatra region and adjacent regions, as a contribution to GOI's efforts towards efficient and equitable regional
development.
To meet the above development objective, the project will produce the following outputs:
(A) Planning and management of transport infrastructure in the region integrated and strengthened towards a
sustainable level, within GOI's decentralized framework.
(B) Development and preservation of the road networks in the project area accelerated, towards environmentally
sustainable and economically efficient levels.
(C) Resource use and service delivery improved through gains in policy inmplementation and technical efficiency.
B: STRATEGIC CONTEXT
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CASdocument:No. 16691-INDofJune 1997 DateoflatestCASdiscussion:July 1997
The Bank's CAS for Indonesia (report No. 16691-IND) issued in June 1997 continues to support GOI's main
objectives of: reducing poverty, managing resources sustainably, enhancing human resource development,
maintaining growth with macroeconomic stability, enhancing competitiveness, while attaining balanced regional
development. The CAS envisages that lending for infrastructure will remain a large part of the Indonesia program
and specifies that such lending should support private sector development and competitiveness, and strengthen
capacities at all levels of government as well as decentralization of responsibilities. The proposed project is
consistent with these objectives, while contributing more specifically to the goal of efficient and equitable regional
development (the project is mentioned in Annex 2 of the CAS).
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
I.     Sector Issues
The Bank's Road Sector Study, completed in 1997, reviewed the performance of the sector and the main sector
issues. The Study concluded that the two main challenges facing the sector are: (i) meeting the rapid growth in
demand for road transport and (ii) playing as supportive a role as possible to sustainable development in less
developed regions. It recommended a comprehensive approach for dealing with these challenges, including
strategies for capacity expansion and network extension, as well as measures to consolidate advances in sound road
management practices.
1. Addressing the growth challenge.  The growth in traffic volumes has consumed the latent capacity of the
existing road network which is largely single carriageway, and often functioning inefficiently due to
inadequate or outdated geometric standards or to ribbon development. Already more than one fifth of
interurban roads and more than half of urban roads are congested, and over the next 5- 10 years substantial
additional capacity will be required, through providing dual carriageways, widening and improvement of
existing roads or through providing new roads. While the majority occur in Java, substantial needs for
network development also exist in the other islands. A dual focus on both road network development and
preservation is therefore recommended, to be based on regional transport and spatial planning studies,
which would identify medium and long-term solutions achieving an optimal balance between the various
networks -in terms of transport service quality as well as economic return.



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 3                       Northern Sumatra Region Road Project
2. The needed efficiency gains.   The budget implications to meet the above growth in demand would differ
depending on the classes of roads and types of works, but overall would justify some increases in road
development expenditures. Such increases can be minimized through efficiency gains that can be found in
improved resource allocation as well as resource use.
3. A longer time horizon.  The time horizon underlying the present approach to project identification and
selection is too short, leading to incrementalist short-term solutions. Effective allocation for road
development involves spatial planning and cost minimization over a longer term.
4. Increasing private participation in road provision.   The establishment of an appropriate framework for
private participation in the provision of road infrastructure is needed to ensure that the opportunities for the
private sector to help meet these challenges of capacity needs in the road sector, are exploited to the
maximum extent possible and that the private sector will be able to bring additional funding to the sector.
However the targets for private participation set for Repelita VI (the current five-year plan) are overly
ambitious since it is only in very high trafficked corridors that viable opportunities exist.
5. Improved sector policies.   Total road transport system costs were estimated at some US$17 billion
(Rp.34,000 billion) in 1992, comprising US$2.5 billion (Rp.5,000 billion) in road expenditures and
US$14.5 billion (Rp.29,000 billion) in vehicle operating costs. At that level, they were equivalent to some
12% of GDP. More effective implementation of sector policies is needed to lower these costs. Hence the
sets of actions recommended in the Road Sector Study on (i) on the one hand the road expenditure policies
(on maintenance, betterment and new construction already discussed above), and (ii) on the other hand the
key road use policies impacting on the efficiency and quality of services: economic and technical
regulation of the road transport industry, traffic safety, vehicle weight and dimension regulations, and road
user taxation. To minimize road transport system costs in the long term the two sets of policies need to be
carefully formulated in an integrated manner. For example, vehicle weight and dimensions and road
designs need to be mutually consistent. In recent years, following the adoption by GOI in 1989 of its
Policy Statement and Action Plan (PSAP) on road infrastructure and road transport, this approach has been
gaining acceptance in Indonesia. Implementation of the Action Plan, however, has suffered delays and it is
expected that a renewed commitment under the Second Highway Sector Project will produce more
effective results.
6. Improved management of environment and social impacts.   Road development activities can involve
significant environmental impacts, especially where new roads penetrate sensitive areas. New road
developments and betterments in Kalimantan, Sulawesi and the eastem islands where sensitive land
systems and bio-diversity areas are extensive, need to be carefully evaluated. In Sumatra, much of the land
is sensitive, but deforestation has been extensive, and the few remaining lowland forests are threatened.
Thus, environmental considerations need to be incorporated early in the feasibility and design phases so
that impacts are minimized in a pro-active manner. While the impacts of capacity expansion of major
roads are typically social, since they tend to be in densely populated areas, these considerations also need
to be incorporated early in the design phase to provide adequately for safety and non-motorized traffic.
7. The institutional challenge.   Performance of the sector agencies in recent years suggests that they are not
yet well equipped for dealing in a coordinated manner with the emerging challenges mentioned above.
Further institutional strengthening is needed to place the road agencies in a position to develop medium-
term plans with a pipeline of well prepared investments to meet rising demands, and to formulate and
implement the complementary sector policy measures.
II.    Government Objectives
Government strategies and objectives as defined in Repelita VI have been translated into programs of road network
preservation, highway capacity and structural improvements, urban roads, and road construction to support regional
development. Regarding national and provincial roads, physical targets are likely to be met, although there is still a
substantial proportion of provincial roads in poor condition. Regarding kabupaten roads, whose network has not
yet reached a stable size and condition, the physical targets are rather ambitious. However the performance of these



Project Appraisal Document                     Page 4                       Northem Sumatra Region Road Project
programs needs to be assessed against the Government's macro-objectives and constraints in terms of balanced
development, which are:
* decentralization: the process of empowering local governments is a continuous one, requiring central agencies
to adapt/transform themselves for a smooth devolution, and local agencies to strengthen themselves to be able
to discharge their increasing responsibilities;
*  spatial organization is seen as an essential framework for coherence cf development activities, as demonstrated
in the Tata Ruang or GOI's national spatial development strategy;
*  intermodalism is a necessary consideration in view of the geographical diversity of the regions and their varied
transport needs, and the Government is developing its Sistranas or national transport system to look at transport
needs in an integrated manner; finally,
Regional development is understandably an overriding concern for the Government. The challenge is to narrow
regional disparities and improve equity while maintaining a reasonable degree of efficiency. The terms of the trade-
off are particularly high in the kabupaten subsector: when the actual allocations are compared with the
"economically efficient" allocations resulting from the KREEM (Kabupaten Road Economic Evaluation Model,
recently developed) analysis, considerable differences appear in terms of development effectiveness (the benefits
derived from the efficient allocation are a multiple of the ones obtained from the current allocation).
The above suggests that the linkages between road development and the Nlational Development Plan, the National
Spatial Plan, the Regional Development Plans, the National Transport System, and urban development, need to be
strengthened. This will require a sustainable procedural framework at the regional and local levels which achieves
effective implementation.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project focuses on the institutional challenge which is to strengthen sector agencies for them to be able to deal
with the current issues and emerging challenges mentioned above. The approach is to support GOI's efforts in two
strategic areas: (i) effective decentralization and (ii) efficient functioning of the sector. More specifically:
•  In response to strong and sustained traffic growth, GOI needs to adopt an improved technical and economic
basis for the expansion of road space and improvement of traffic flow (comparable to the economic basis
successfully used to program road preservation expenditures), including: i) preparation of balanced road plans
for development, expansion and preservation works at local and provincial levels integrated within a region; ii)
extension of the economic basis for allocating and prioritizing expenditures, from the present coverage of
interurban road preservation, to cover all works for the primary road networks in the five-year plans; and iii)
enhanced institutional coordination between stakeholders (involving government agencies, private sector and
community groups) to achieve effective integration of all aspects of road development activities, as well as an
informed basis to the local and interprovincial consultation/decision process.
*  At the same time, it is crucial to consolidate sound road management policies, including environmental and
social aspects, at all levels of government, as well as sound maintenance practices especially at the level of the
district road network.
*  Substantive regional differences exist in the level and composition of road needs, as well as their relation to
economic development. Making the road networks functionally effectlive to serve local, provincial and
regional needs is best achieved with the region-specific focus, as an alternative to the current network-specific
approach that is exclusively centrally-managed.
The project does not address directly the issue of private sector provision of road infrastructure, although it
promotes more efficient private participation in road design and construction. Instead, it works towards the
establishment of a coherent planning framework where the roles of the public and private sectors are clearly
articulated, as opposed to the current unsatisfactory deal-by-deal approach.



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 5                       Northern Sumatra Region Road Project
C: PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                 Category       Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-   % of Bank-
Contingencies   Total  financing   financing
(USSM)               (US$M)
Al. SupportBappenastransport                            0.6         0.1       0.6        0.3
planning and management guidance
A2. Develop Strategic transport    Institution-         9.5         2.6       8.6        3.7
planning in project area
A3. Improve annual planning-        building            0.5         0.1      0.5         0.2
progyramming in project area
B1. Regional road network          Physical and       202.8        54.9    113.2        48.4
preservation                         Project
B2. Regional road network          Management         143.9        39.0    100.7        43.0
development
Cl. Enhance quality and technical  Institution-         2.4         0.7      2.2         0.9
efficiency                         building and
C2. Support implementation of road    Policy            9.6         2.6       8.2        3.5
traffic and transport policy
Total    369.3        100.0    234.0      100.0
2. KCey policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The main focus of the project is capacity building, and institutional development is indeed the project's policy
objective, because the main impediment to effective policy implementation and impact has been inadequate
capacity to implement. There is an active dialogue with GOI, under ongoing projects, on road sector policies and
imp:roved sector planning. The project provides the vehicle for effective implementation of these sectoral policies
and processes at the regional level.
3. Benefits and target population:
The benefits of the project and the impacts on the target population are the following:
(i) Lower freight and passenger transport costs, with resulting benefits in fares, the price of goods, marketing of
products, and the reduction of transport bottlenecks affecting economic development. This will have direct
benefits for the traveling public, agricultural and industrial producers, consumers, and local communities
having improved access to health and education services.
(ii) Improved physical environment along project roads, and improved attention to environmental and social
impacts of road works. Roadside communities and non-motorized road users are expected to benefit from
improved shoulders, planting and drainage.
(iii) More effective management and sustainable maintenance of each jurisdiction's road assets, including better
utilization of existing traffic capacity, improved value-for-money of public spending on roads, and better
connectivity of villages to provincial and national networks allowed by the project's focus on networks
integration.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Impilementation Period: The project will be implemented over a five year and half period, from GOI FY1998/99.
Implementation is expected to start in April 1998. The loan will close on December 31, 2003.



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 6                     Northern Sumatra Region Road Project
Institutional Arrangements: They are based on a detailed analysis of the roles and responsibilities of each of the
agencies involved in the project (see Annex 7). From that "long list", a lirnited number of agencies were selected as
Implementing Agencies. Their roles cover the range of (a) oversight, (b) implementation, and c coordination
activities under the project.
(a) Oversight. The project falls within the general responsibilities of Bappenas, which will oversee the planning
and implementation of road sector programs, and provide relevant guidance (component A 1). In order to steer
and monitor the progress of the project, to ensure that it meets national goals, and to facilitate coordination
within and across departments, a Steering Committee has been established. Key staffing of the Steering
Committee (SC) was confirmed at negotiations.
(b) Implementing Agencies. The Directorate General of Highways (DGH) in the Ministry of Public Works is the
Lead Implementing Agency, responsible for overall technical supervision and management of the project. In
particular, DGH will be in charge of general planning and technical guidance in the sector (components A2 and
Cl).
The other Implementing Agencies are:
i) Bangda for the improved administration of the local roads programs (component A3).
ii) the Provincial Planning Boards (BAPPEDA) for the development. of regional planning activities in the
project area (component A2), in particular through the establishment of Transport Planning Commissions.
iii) the Provincial Public Works departments (DPUP) for planning/implementation of the national/provincial
road civil works program (components B 1, B2, C1).
iv) the Kabupaten Public Works departments (DPUK for planning/implementation of the kabupaten road civil
works program (components B 1, B2).
v) the Directorate General of Land Transportation (DGLT) of the Ministry of Communications and the
provincial land transport authorities for joint development of a regional transport network strategy
(component A2) and road traffic/transport policy implementation (component C2).
To handle the relative complexity of the project dealing with various central departments, four provincial
govemments and 33 kabupaten govemments, a Project Implementation Memorandum (PIM) will be used. The PIM
will document the respective roles, responsibilities and procedures for project implementation, in the form of a
memorandum of understanding between the participating agencies. Agreement on the PIM was reached at
negotiations and the parties to the PIM have signed it.
(c) Coordination. It will be the responsibility of the Steering Committee to facilitate coordination within and
across departments. For day-to-day implementation of the project, a Project Management Unit (PMU) has been
established to coordinate activities. The PMU will assist and monitor progress in project implementation,
including preparation of annual programs, procurement, physical achievements and expenditures. The PMU
will be supported by consultants represented in each province.
Implementation Arrangements
(a) The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) is a technical working document for use by the PMU in the
management of the project. The PIP includes the implementation schedule, procurement plan, disbursement
schedule, performance indicators and monitoring for the overall project and for individual sub-projects and
activities. The PIP also indicates all implementation activities to be undertaken in any GOI fiscal year. This
information provides the framework for the preparation by the implementing agencies of annual work
programs. Agreement on the PIP was reached at negotiations.
(b) Annual Work Programs (AWP) will be drawn up by DGH, DGLT and the participating local governments,
based on the provision of the PIM, and the technical framework in the PIP. Through the AWPs, these
implementing agencies would commit themselves to undertake in a given year specific sub-projects and
activities of the project, and to achieve specific targets. The draft AWPs will be issued by September 30 of
each year, for review and then discussion at the GOI/Bank Annual Review Meetings in October, and final



Project Appraisal Document                  Page 7                     Northern Sumatra Region Road Project
adoption by March 31 for implementation in the following fiscal year. It will be the responsibility of the PMU
to assemble the AWPs into a single document for presentation to the Annual Review Meetings, and to update
the PIP to reflect the finalized AWPs. The AWP for year 1 (1998/99) will be furnished to the Bank by March
31, 1998.
(c) The annual review of the project will provide the opportunity to review implementation progress and to take
actions to address emerging problems. The review will take place by October 31 of each year starting in 1998,
to coordinate with the GOI Budget process, and to ensure appropriate provision is made for counterpart funds
in GOI budgets. The review will focus on the following:
*  the evaluation of progress for the preceding fiscal year;
*  the draft AWPs proposed for the following fiscal year; and
*  performance indicators.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements
The PMU will have overall responsibility for establishing and monitoring the use of a uniform project accounting
system. Financial records and accounts by sub-projects will be retained by the implementing agencies based on
copies of supporting documents obtained from project managers and relevant agencies concerned with project
funding, payment and disbursement. The PMU will maintain accounts for equipment procured on behalf of the
project and for training and technical assistance. The PMU comptroller will consolidate all accounts from the 33
kabupatens and four provinces into a single project account on a quarterly basis for monitoring purposes, and
annually for audit purposes. GOI will furnish the project records to the Bank; accounts will be audited annually in a
timely fashion by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and GOI will furnish to the Bank certified copies of
the consolidated audit reports no later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year. In the case of SOEs, the
audit report will contain a separate opinion as to whether the SOEs furnished during each fiscal year, together with
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the withdrawals.
Annex 8 provides details on the financial reporting and auditing framework.
Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring of all aspects of the project and road planning and implementation activities will be undertaken. The
establishment of a provincial database will also be an important development used in monitoring the road
development program for the province. Monthly reports provided by DPUKs and provincial offices will provide
the basis for monitoring. Progress on the project will be communicated to the Bank by means of quarterly progress
reports which will include both consolidated information for the total project and individual reports on each
province. The PMU will be responsible for monitoring performance indicators. Every year, as an integral part of
preparing the annual project progress report, PMU will collect project progress and impact data and record actual
performance indicators against agreed targets. Agreement on the set of indicators and target values was reached at
negotiations, with the understanding that the PMU will furnish all baseline values to the Bank by July 31, 1998.
During implementation, these indicators will be reviewed by the Government and the Bank. Areas for
improvement will be identified and measures to achieve them will be proposed. Special assessments will be carried
out at the time of mid-term review and project completion. The PMU will prepare a detailed project completion
report and furnish it to the Bank not later than three months after the loan closing date, so that the ICR can be issued
within six months of the latter date.
D: PROJECT RATIONALE
1. jProject alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Different alternatives to the project design and scope were considered and the one selected is offering the best
cornpromise between a "sectoral" approach and a "regional development" approach:
a) the project could have added the objective of targeting poverty alleviation and involved more village
communities into the project design. This would have created internal inconsistencies, since an effective
targeted intervention (modeled on the VIP approach) would have required bypassing some central/local



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 8                      Northem Sumatra Region Road Project
agencies, whereas the proposed design called for strengthening these very institutions for them to fully
meet their responsibilities. in the areas of planning and implemeintation.
b) another design would have the prect split into two: one dealing with the national/provincial road
networks, the other with the local Iroad network, thus reverting to the traditional network-specific approach.
This would have relieved the tensions between the two approaches noted above, but would also mean that
the overarching objective of integrating the various networks for strategic planning purposes, would have
been unattainable.
c) finally one could have thought of integrating all provinces of Sumatra into a "Sumatra Region Roads
Project", thus maximizing the regional integration. This was clearly rejected at the concept level
discussions, when it wasnclarified that a "pilot" regional road project should not handle more than three or
four provinces.
The proposed project as designed appears as the best compromise, at the same time relevant and manageable. The
main assumptions were that other relevant objectives would be pursued under separate operations, such as Bank or
OECF village infrastructure projects for targeted social objectives, or a potential regional road project covering
Southern Sumatra for further regional integration. This was the basis on which the project design was eventually
endorsed by GOI.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned): 
Sector issue                    Project              Latest Supervision (Formn 590)
Ratings
Bank-financed                                                Implementation   Development
Institutional capacity of GOI agencies  Third Kabupaten Roads  Progress (IP)    Objective(DO)
in charge of managing the' district.    (3490-IND); Eastemn
road network; and improving rural    Indonesia Kabupaten Roads
access to main economic centers.  (3579-IND); Fifth                 S                S
Kabupaten Roads (3732-
IND); and Second Village
Infrastructure (41 00-IND)
Improving road sectorpolicies; and
institutional capacity of GOI agencies  Second Highway Sector       S                S
in charge of managing the         Investment (3712-IND)
national/provincial road network.
Urban transport policy; androads in   Strategic UrbanlRoad          S                s
selected urban areas.             Infrastructure (4054-IND)
Other development agencies
OECF                              Rural Infrastructure.
ADB                               Java-Bali District Roads;
Highway Sector; and
MetropolitanMedan
Development.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U-(Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 9                      Northern Sumatra Region Road Project
3. Lessons learnt and reflected in the project design:
Lessons learnt from Second Rural Roads Project Ln. 2881-IND (ICR Report No. 13831 of December 1994).
Experience under RR2 provided useful cautionary advice for future projects in the sector: (a) project objectives
should not be too ambitious: the goals should be realistic, specific and achievable within a reasonable time; (b) for
this type of operations in the medium term, project design should provide intensive TA for monitoring at the central
level and implementation at the regional level; C in the longer term, sustainability is affected by (i) the quality of
the training programs, and (ii) the adequacy of the incentives that the central govemment uses in its budget systems
to ensure that lower levels of government use resources effectively; and (d) there is effective value in a balanced
lending program combining a more complex project with a series of simpler follow-up projects.
Lessons learnt from Highway Sector Project -Ln. 3133-IND (ICR Report No. 15253 of Jan. 1996). There are
three main lessons to be learnt from this project's experience:
(a) Policy Foundation. The 1989 Policy Statement has provided a strong foundation not only for this project,
but also for all other concurrent projects in the sector; it served well as a vehicle for dialogue among the
concerned agencies of Government and with the Bank.
(b) Institutional Change Management. The changes in organization structure introduced earlier (1989 new
organization of DGLT) required further changes in the context of the new land transport law. The
complete institutional rationalization may require a long term time framework and extended consultation.
(c) Development Effectiveness of TA and Training. Investing in TA and training for institutional capacity
building purposes can yield high returns in terms of development effectiveness. Conditions for success
include: (a) assignments have to be responsive to specific needs; (b) their number should take into account
the absorptive capacity of the various recipient agencies; C full advantage should be taken of the untapped
training opportunities existing in most TA assignments; and (d) actual skills upgrading takes time.
These lessons have been incorporated in the project design. Focus is made on a small number of specific processes
wh[ich have a major impact on strategic goals. Also, drawing in GOI agencies around a given process rather than
around functions provides an objective basis for cross-functional communications and effective working teams.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
(a) The Tata Ruang or GOI's national spatial development strategy, as well as the Sistranas or national transport
system, have been finalized in March 1996 and are being disseminated to all government agencies for
implementation.
(b) There has been clear demonstration during project preparation, of GOI's commitment (i) to the continuing
development and maintenance of the public road network in the region; (ii) commitment to the pioneering
features of the project design (although GOI consolidated view will need further strengthening during project
implementation); and (iii) commitment to implementing adopted policies on road network use (slow progress
on VWD enforcement to date, but now increased recognition at national level of the need to reduce the costs of
overloading through better targeted enforcement).
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank is well positioned to assist GOI in achieving the objectives of the first Regional Road Project, given:
*  its knowledge of the sector through several transport projects and relevant sector work;
*  its involvement in the series of Kabupaten Roads Projects covering 150 kabupatens in 21 provinces;
*  its involvement in an increasing number of regional projects dealing with other sectors: urban, health,
education, and agriculture;
*  its technical know-how in road planning and management.
Bank participation will help GOI establish a sustainable procedural framework at the regional and local levels
whtich achieves effective implementation of the national guidelines contained in the Repelita, the Tata Ruang, and
the Sistranas.



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 10                     Northem Sumatra Region Road Project
E: SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 10)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ 880 million (at 15% discount rate'); ERR= 30%
The cost/benefit evaluation focuses on the savings in vehicle operating costs directly associated with the Bank
financed road works. These represent 94% of total project costs. The benefits arising from the improved efficiency
of the overall expenditure program achieved through capacity building in planning and program preparation and
implementation of road works are significant but have not been quantified.
The results of the economic evaluation represent the final outcome of a comprehensive program preparation and
evaluation process carried out during project preparation and to be institutionalized in the provinces through the
project. This process involves identification of links and works for initial screening, the actual screening and finally
the feasibility evaluation. The economic evaluation of subprojects is carried out in terms of discounted cash flows
of (economic) construction and maintenance costs on the one hand and road user cost savings on the other. Costs
and benefits are in early 1997 prices. For the ERR of the project as a whole, the cost and benefit cash flows of each
of the components (betterment, capacity expansion, routine and periodic maintenance, new construction) are
combined for an overall evaluation. Construction costs include, where applicable, the cost of mitigation of
environmental and social impacts, supervision and physical contingencies. The resulting overall ERR is 30%. The
net present value at a 15% discount rate is Rp.2,122 billion and the benefillcost ratio is 3.45: 1. Every year the
program preparation and evaluation process will be repeated and subprojects will be selected based on their ERR.
The main project risks identified (Annex l) - commitment at higher levels, adequate counterpart funds for
maintenance of Kabupaten roads, delays in procurement, implementation capacity, competitive conditions in
industry - ultimately translate into higher construction costs and/or lower benefits. A sensitivity analysis of the
impact of less favorable cost and benefit outcomes was conducted. This shIows that with 20% higher construction
costs and 20% lower benefits, the ERR is 25%.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
The financing plan for the project is shown as part of the Project Financing Data in cover page. This shows that the
total project cost of US$369.3 million will be funded by GOI in the amount of US$135.3 million or 36.6%
(including taxes amounting to US$32.6 million), and the Bank loan in the anount of US$234.0 million or 63.4%.
There are no user fees or other funding sources. The Bank loan will finance about 55% of local costs. This cost
sharing is justified on project and macroeconomic grounds (Annex 5).
The GOI counterpart funds (central and local governmrent) are part of the expenditures that would have been funded
for road works without the project. Upon completion of the project there is no need for additional expenditures
over and above those that would have been funded without the project.
Fiscal impact:
An assessment of the fiscal impact (Annex 4) shows that the project activities are sustainable. Because of the
programmatic approach, during and after the project, GOI expenditures for road works will remain at their trend
level. The project will not create a need for higher levels of road expenditures in the project region and because of
the higher effectiveness of expenditures would provide the possibility of reducing expenditures to achieve the same
level of service from the road network. On the revenue side, the project could entail a marginal reduction in
government revenues from road users. But this can be compensated for by taxing part of the gain obtained by road
users from better roads. Moreover, by helping to foster economic growth, through lower transport costs, the project
helps to widen and deepen the taxation base.
3. Technical:
Relevance of the Improved Planning Framework
With the current move towards decentralized decision making in Indonesia, there is a need to empower the



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 11                     Northern Sumatra Region Road Project
provincial and kabupaten levels of government and to provide a vehicle through which responsibility, authority and
accountability can be decentralized from Bappenas to the provincial Bappeda units. This project targets this need in
three ways, namely, by:
*  providing direct support to Bappenas to develop improved evaluation and prioritization guidelines for
application by the provincial agencies:
*  supporting the further formalization of provincial planning coordination under Bappeda through development
of Transport Planning Commissions (TPC);
*  supporting improved province and kabupaten level planning with planning and technical resources provided by
both the Project Management Unit (PMU) in Jakarta and selected seconded and consultant support in the
Provinces.
The project thus provides a combination of support; first to Bappenas to provide consistent guidelines and
methodology, second, to the provinces through the PMU to provide further help to link the Bappenas guidelines and
methodology to specific local plans, and tertiary level support directly to the provinces and kabupatens for
programming and implementation. This model offers a strong planning and implementation chain which will
contribute to ensure rational decision making and accountability at each level.
Program Delivery
Economy of delivery will be maintained through DGH, the PMU and through the development of Quality assurance
standards and guidelines for the delivery agents followed by annual quality audit reports. Efficiency of project
delivery will be improved through the further application of improvements in economic evaluation of projects and
the more timely staging of the investments that will result. The effectiveness of the overall program will be
ach.ieved by improvements in the planning methodology at each level of govemment and the further development
of improved planning coordination for transport and more particularly road investment at regional and provincial
levels through the TPC.
Technical tools and standards have been developed and improved under previous or ongoing Bank assistance; they
are satisfactory. Some are state-of-the-art, such as the Indonesian Highway Capacity Manual, or the Integrated
RoaLd Management System.
Strategic Objectives of Loan Distribution
In view of the limitation of loan funds relative to the large size of the region, it is important that they are distributed
within the region between geographical areas, road networks and works categories in a way that best promotes the
strategic planning objectives of the project as a whole. The project intends to depart from a traditional approach
whereby each kabupaten or province automatically receives an annual project quota or length target. Rather, it
would support a core maintenance program at kabupaten level tied to identified needs and subject to regular
performnance evaluation-/; this could be topped up by more discretionary support for selected strategic betterment
projects where suitable candidates have been identified and necessary preparatory studies have been completed, and
which might be implemented in planned phases over three or four years. This approach is critically dependent on
avaiilability of planning surveys on the entire kabupaten network at the start of the project. Completion of such
surveys is part of the criteria for subproject selection (as set out in the PIP).
The balance of loan assignment between the national/provincial and kabupaten road sectors was based on the
analysis of economic needs and the "leverage" role of loan funds in fostering better practices. This led to an
allocation of about 65% of loan funds to the kabupaten sector and 35% to the national/provincial one. However, as
1/ It was agreed at negotiations that a kabupaten maintenance program would be considered satisfactory if it meets at
least the maintenance needs of the strategic network. More specifically, for each province, the average kabupaten
road maintenance budget should provide funds for at least 150 km of routine maintenance and 20 km of periodic
overlay as a "core" maintenance program.



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 12                     Northem Sumatra Region Road Project
far as possible, the options for reallocation of funds should be kept as flexible as possible in the spirit of an
integrated regional approach. With respect to the leverage aspect, it was agreed that the project would finance a
larger share of local costs to take account of the regional development dimension of the project (see Annex 5).
Road Traffic and Transport Policy Component
To complement the efforts in the areas of road development and preservation, this component focuses on
improvements in road traffic safety and on reducing road damage from vehicle overloading. It aims at
implementing in the project region the institutional strengthening and policy measures developed at the national
level and being piloted in the province of Bali starting in 1997. The component has been carefully developed
following surveys and fact finding and a consultative process involving the key agencies and parties involved to
ensure that the most critical road traffic safety and vehicle overloading issues are being addressed. To ensure
effective and sustainable results, an action plan and schedule have been prepared with wide-ranging measures, from
improved regulation (e.g. a modification would be made to the present enforcement regulation as provided in a
decree of Ministry of Communications, to give the enforcement authorities the power to turn back overloaded
vehicles) to incentives and improved enforcement (financing of road works on links which are being damaged
through overloading will be contingent on an action plan to address the specific source of overloading having been
agreed upon, between the provincial authorities and the source of the road damage). Regarding road traffic safety, it
was agreed that for the smooth and effective introduction of the Road Traffic Accident reporting system, ajoint
Decree by DGLC and the Traffic Police on the Road Traffic Accident Information System (RTAIS) would be
issued. Agreement on the action plan and schedule was reached at negotiations.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agency:
As indicated in para. 4, DGH will be the Lead Implementing Agency for tlhe project. DGH has executed several
Bank and other donor-funded projects in the road sector and has competent staff. DGH took a lead role within the
GOI Preparation Team for this project. Under the proposed implementation arrangements, DGH will be required to
play a guiding and advising role, compared to the more hands on executing role in Highway Sector Projects.
However, DGH has already started making this delicate transition in the kabupaten Roads Projects. Also
management tools and systems were developed under previous projects that would need to be further decentralized.
For instance, much of the planning data in the kabupatens is recorded only on original survey forms and analysis
sheets and very often soon becomes difficult to access or is lost. The establishment of a well-managed provincial
database will ensure that the data is permanently recorded and its existence will provide the base from which
appropriate monitoring and management control can be established. Finallly the detailed definition of
responsibilities described in Section C.4 should facilitate DGH's challenging role.
b. Project management:
All implementing agencies mentioned in para. 4 have participated in Highway Sector or Kabupaten Roads Projects,
and thus have some experience of Bank projects. The challenge is for these agencies to work together in a
synergistic way, and in particular for local government agencies to take more of a lead role in project
implementation. This project is indeed a departure from earlier projects in the degree to which local support is
provided with the aim of improving the prioritization of investments within programs at province and kabupaten
level. To ensure that consistency is achieved in the devolution of responsibility and eventually also, authority and
accountability, the support provided to Bappenas will ensure that sustainable guidelines and methodologies for
project selection and prioritization are developed and disseminated. Another key institutional element is the
operation, under the Bappeda, of a Transport Planning Commission in each province with the ongoing
responsibility for priority setting for transport investment in the province and for the development of a strategic road
network based on a functional classification system. The TPC, drawing on existing staff with the secretariat support
of the PMU, will be an essential element of sustainability.



Project Appraisal Document                  Page 13                      Northern Sumatra Region Road Project
5. Social:
A Social Assessment (SA) was conducted by GOI in parallel with the Environmental Assessment (section 18). A
numiber of social issues were identified, and recommendations made to address them on an applied level, in
particular (i) improve the transport planning component in the spatial planning process, and (ii) strengthen
procedures for community consultation at all stages. Two issues emerge:
(a) For capacity expansion subprojects with major widening, the social impacts of land acquisition and
resettlement can be significant. The GOI legislation or AMDAL requires community consultation and
consensus agreement on fair compensation. To make these requirements fully consistent with the Bank's
OD 4.30, a Resettlement Policy Framework has been prepared. A satisfactory draft of such framework was
agreed at negotiations, and each participating province has formally issued the Framework. No specific
resettlement action plan has been prepared yet, since this type of road development subproject will not start
before year 3 of the project.
(b) Isolated vulnerable people exist in the project area; the SA includes a map showing that they are located
mostly in the Riau province. A strategy to meet GOI and Bank's OD4.20 requirements in terms of impact
mitigation, consultation and monitoring has been prepared (listed in the project files) and is part of the
PIM. The focus is on the importance of an effective screening process and on the specialized technical
skills needed to carry out the specific social impact assessments (in accordance with agreed guidelines)
and, if warranted, the strategic action plans for isolated communities. Findings of the screening process
and the proposed action plans will be presented in the AWP (section 4 above) and discussed/approved
during the joint annual reviews.
6. E.nvironmental assessment.  Environmental Category [x] A   []B    []C
The project has been rated A because it involves road development activities which could lead to significant
environmental impacts essentially where new roads penetrate sensitive areas. In Sumatra, over 60% of the land is
classed as sensitive, 31% is in steeplands and 25% in swamplands, and the few remaining lowland forests in Riau
are significant in biodiversity
A sectoral Environmental Assessment (EA) was conducted by GOI (report available in the project files). The EA
confirmed that GOI environmental regulations (AMDAL) are sound, but issues arise in the planning and handling
of the AMDAL process. The problems lie in:
recognizing those relatively few projects that carry really significant impacts especially in terms of (i)
problems relating to land acquisition and resettlement; (ii) issues concerning the new provision of road
access to isolated communities; (iii) damage to watersheds and the hydrographic regime; (iv) loss of forest
and biological resources; and (v) conversion for non-sustainable use that results in irreversible land
degradation;
developing the capacity of the consultants undertaking the ANDAL studies, and those responsible for
reviewing and approving the studies, so that the studies focus on the really significant issues, and
developing the capacity and commitment of the responsible authorities, especially those outside the
proponent agency, for ensuring that the resulting recommendations are fully carried out.
The project will provide for (i) general support for environmental management located in the PMU, (ii) the active
involvement of the recently created Bapedalda in an Environmental Oversight role in each province, to coordinate
the regional implementation of the AMDAL, (iii) a focus on strategic development needs, long term planning and
advance project preparation in order to build a strong pipeline of sound investment projects, (iv) increased Bank
supervision resources to support GOI's efforts. These elements, in parallel with the ongoing ISEM (Institutionai
Strengthening of Environmental Management) project in Bina Marga and the SPEMPC (Strengthening Provincial
Environmental Management and Planning Capacity) in Bangda, are designed to improve the overall capacity to deal
with these problems effectively at all levels in the development process. Agreement was reached at negotiations
that all participating provinces will maintain a Bapedalda in charge of environmental oversight of project activities,
with adequate staffing and operational budget.



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 14                     Northem Sumatra Region Road Project
The strategy for dealing with environmental impacts is based on a systematic screening for each road subproject,
based on the types of terrain, land use and population density that will be traversed. Data from this preliminary
screening will determine the type of impacts and scale of the further environmental impact analysis (EIA) required:
full study (ANDAL), limited one (KL), or none at all. Provisional categories of EIA studies have been derived,
based on predicted degree of impact and level of effort, and their costs are part of the project costs. Management
and monitoring plans will be prepared for the subprojects that require EIA (RKL and RPL for subprojects requiring
ANDAL and UKL and UPL for those requiring KL). For subprojects which do not require further EIA,
management and monitoring of environmental aspects during construction are covered under Interim Mitigation
Guidelines issued by DGH in 1993. The latter is to be finalized as Standard Operating Procedures during 1998
under the ISEM consultancy. An Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan (EMMP) to guide project
managers in day-to-day implementation of subprojects has been prepared, based on the EA recommendations.
Agreement on the EMMP was reached at negotiations.
There will be only preservation civil works in the first year. Capacity expansion and network extension subprojects,
potentially with most significant impacts, will be implemented in years 3 and 4; this will give in principle ample
time for the required specific EIA. All other subprojects deal with betterment, maintenance and minor widening
within the right-of-way, and have no significant environmental impacts.
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; ifparticipatory
approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
These include the traveling public, agricultural and industrial producers, consumers, and local communities. They
were broadly consulted during project preparation on the occasion of provincial workshops and general
consultations held prior to the release of the Social and Environmental Assessments (sections 5 and 6 above). It is
expected that their involvement and influence will be felt mostly during implementation, when specific road
schemes will lead to consultations with concerned communities and main road users.
b. Other key stakeholders:
These include (i) all implementing agencies including local governments (see Annex 7) which collaborated during
project preparation and will take in charge implementation; (ii) other government agencies like the Ministry of
Forestry which are expected to collaborate during implementation; and (iii) other donors, with whom an active
policy of information sharing is being pursued.
F: SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability is enhanced by the general thrust for decentralization which would increase the chances for genuine
local ownership of the project. A few features, focusing on the actual conditions and constraints of the project area,
are worth noting:
*  the active involvement of the Bappeda in the strategic planning exercises through the TPC, as well as the
collaboration of diverse but concerned provincial agencies to support the Environmental Oversight role of
the Bapedalda, would ensure that institutional achievements would outlive the TA period;
*  on the technical side, a key element of the project is to establish a preparatory pipeline approach to
network development as a standard component of an improved road planning system. Also, sound road
management practices would take much firmer root because of the incentives built into the system (in
particular regarding maintenance in the kabupatens).
*  The above in turn would allow to achieve the quality and design life targets, thus enhancing the
sustainability of the economic benefits.



Project Appraisal Document                     Page 15                        Northem Sumatra Region Road Project
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                     Risk Rating            Risk Minimization Measure
Project outputs to development objectives:
1. Sustained commitment from GOI agencies,      M        1. Bappenas' oversight role is clearly defined,
outside Project Management, to the project               and supported by specific TA.
development objectives.
2. Other transport sector projects (HSP, KRP,   M        2. All these projects involve Bappenas Deputy III
SU]RIP, Rail, Village Roads ... ) successfully           or V as head of a Steering Committee or a Project
contribute to the performance of the sector.             Secretariat.
3. Road transport industry has sufficient       N        3. Due to past deregulation, the road transport
incentive to perforn more efficiently.                   market is competitive and likely to remain so.
Project components to outputs:
1. Counterpart resources are available in terms  S       1. Bank cost-sharing has been increased
of: (i) general funding for project                      substantially. The project seeks to improve fund
implementation, (ii) specific funding for road           allocation at two levels: kabupatens should find a
maintenance in kabupatens, and (iii) staff for           better balance between preservation and
TPC, PMU.                                                extension, and Bappenas should consider more
the needs in the regional allocation. Regarding
staff, the PIM is expected to be used as an
effective management tool.
2. Land needed is acquired on time.             M        2. Policy for funding of land costs was clarified;
and land costs and acquisition schedules are
internalized, hence subject to joint annual review
mechanisms.
3. Procurement schedule not delayed.            M        3. Critical items like PMU are covenanted. For
the rest, special effort will be needed from Bank
supervision to ensure new Guidelines are quickly
internalized.
4. Adequate management capacity at all levels.   S       4. The clear definition of responsibilities will
assist DGH in coordinating the whole project;
Bangda and Bappenas will ensure that effective
decentralization of management is taking place.
5. Competition is maintained in the road        M        5. Efficiency in procurement will be a special
construction industry.                                   topic for Bank supervision; and adequate
resources are provided for Quality Assurance TA.
6. EIffective enforcement of road transport     M        6. At central level, commitment from MOC was
policies.                                                ascertained; at regional level, components were
tailored to local constraints and capacities.
7. B3ank resources for supervision are          M        7. Strong commitment from Bank management.
sufficient.
Overall Risk Rating:              M
Riskc Rating: H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Project Appraisal Document                  Page 16                     Northem Sumatra Region Road Project
3. Possible ControversialAspects:
Network extension involving new construction is relatively rare under Bank projects, which have tended to focus
rather on preservation works or capacity expansion on the same alignment. The project could be construed as
contributing to opening up new fragile areas which abound in the region. The Bank is involved in this component
because such network extension is taking place anyway, often without due regard to environmental or social
impacts. Bank involvement is=expected to improve systems and procedures for planning, preparing and
implementing such projects. Arrangements to monitor and manage these impacts (sections E.5 and E.6) are
considered adequate.
G: MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
GOI to furnish the Legal Opinion to the Bank.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]:
(a) Each year, the Annual Works Program (AWP) to be (i) fumished to the Bank by September 30;
(ii) reviewed jointly and checked for compliance with subprojects selection criteria (technical, social,
environmental and economic criteria as definea in the Loan Agreement) by October 31; and (iii) finalized
for adoption by the implementing agencies by March 31.
(b) PMU to furnish to the Bank the baseline values for the performarice indicators by July 31, 1998.
(c) DGLC (i) to furnish to the Bank the draft Action Plan for road policy implementation by June 30, 1998;
and (ii) to finalize and implement such Action Plan by August 31,1998.
H: READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION
[x ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
[] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I: COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES
[x]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: The project complies with all
other applicable Bank policies.]
Task Team Leader: Jacqes Tollie
Sector    ger: Jeffrey S. Gutman
&untry Director: Dennis de Tray



Project Appraisal Document                       Page 17                         Northem Sumatra Region Road Project
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary         Key Performance        Monitoring and Supervision   Critical Assumptions and Risks
Indicators'
CAS Objective:           1. All regions share      CAS and CEM reports.       (CAS Objective to Bank
Efficient and equitable  economic growth.                                     Mission):
regional development    2. Within each region,                                Sustained commitment from
achieved.               economic growth is better                             GOI to improvements in
distributed.                                         transport sector as well as in
other sectors.
Project Development      1. Province-generated     A system of monitoring     (Development Objectives to
Objectives:             Annual Works Programs      road condition and         CAS Objective):
Transport operations and   prepared in accordance with  kabupaten perforrnance in    1. Regional Transport Sector
access within projects area  long-term plans.      maintaining and increasing   approach disseminated to
and adjacent regions    2. Average ERR on road    the maintainable network is  Southern Sumatra and other
imprcived.              investment at least 15%.   to be developed and        regions.
implemented within the
3. congestion index       project.                   2. Projects in other sectors
improved.                                            successfully contribute to the
4. %provincial roads in                              performance of the economy.
poor condition decreasing.
5. % kabupaten roads in
stable condition increasing.
Project Outputs:         1. I Bappeda operational  The CTC kabupaten data    (Outputs to Development
A. Planning and         through TPC & performing   processing methodology     Objectives):
management of transport  required tasks.           will be decentralized to the   1. Sustained commitment from
infrastructure in the region  1.2 Long term integrated  provinces and kabupatens.   GOI agencies, outside Project
integrated and          plans available.           This will enable the       Management, to the project
strengthened towards a   1.   odqaiyadprovinces to monitor and                development objectives.
sustainable level, within   timel Godocumentyatind  report progress on all
GOl's decentralized     timely docu*illaalsoplanning and programming
framework.       ~~available at each step of the   activities. This will also be   2. Other transport sector
framework.     consultation process.      extended to the           projects (HSP, KR, SURIP, Rail,
national/provincial network.  Village Roads...) successfully
contribute to the performance of
the sector.
B. Development and      2.1 Physical targets, as   The project will use existing  3. Road transport industry has
preservation of the road    updated in the Annual  implementation and         sufficient incentive to perform
networks in the project  Works Programs, achieved.  financial monitoring      more efficiently.
area atccelerated, towards   2.2 % projects without  procedures already
environmentally         adequate AMDAL             developed for the
sustainable and         documentation reduced.     Kabupaten Roads projects
economically efficient                             and the Kotak Pos system
levels.                                            for national provincial
roads.
/ Targeted values as expected at mid-term and end of project were agreed at negotiations and are included in the PIM (baseline values to be
confirmed by PMU by July 31, 1998).



Project Appraisal Document                           Page 18                             Northem Sumatra Region Road Project
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators!'    Monitoring and Supervision    Critical Assumptions and Risks
C. Resource use and service    3.1 Four DLLAJs performing   Quality assurance will require
delivery improved through    required tasks in VWD and      post-construction surveys
gains in policy implementation  traffic safety.             which will provide the inputs.
and technical efficiency.    3.2 Reduction in road damage
due to overloading.
3.3 Significant reduction in
contract cost overruns.
3.4 Budgets to be more
generated from viable
programs.
Project Components:          Inputs: (costs in US$ million)   The project monitoring inputs   (Components to Outputs)
will come from the supervising
Cons.Services      15.8       engineers and the
Al. Support Bappenas         for TA                        implementing agencies in       1. Counterpart resources are
transport planning and                                     charge of specific components   available in terms of: (i)
management guidance.         Civil works       219.7                                      general funding for project
A2. Develop strategic        on K network                                                implementation, (ii) specific
transport planning in project                                                            funding for road maintenance
area.                        Civil works    * 109.2                                      in kabupatens, and (iii) staff
A3. Improve annual planning-  on NP network                                              for TPCs and PMU.
programming in project area.                                                              2. Land needed is acquired on
Design & Spn  :  10.4                                      time.
B I. Regional road network                                                                3. Procurement schedule not
preservation.                Land acquis.   :  10.5                                       delayed.
B2. Regional road network
development.                 Equipment       :   3.7                                     4. Adequate management
C1. Enhance quality and                                                                  capacity at all levels.
technical efficiency.        Total           : 369.3                                      5. Competition is maintained
in the road construction
C2a. Enhance road traffic                                                                 i
safety.                                                                                  mdustry.
6. Effective enforcement of
C2b. Support implementation                                                              road transport policies.
of road transport policy.
7. Bank resources for
supervision are sufficient.
l/ Targeted values as expected at mid-term and end of project were agreed at negotiations and are included in the PIM (baseline values to be
confirmed by PMU by July 31, 1998).



Project Appraisal Document                  Page 19                Northern Sumatra Region Road Project
Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
OUTPUTA    Planning and management of transport infrastructure in the region integrated and
strengthened towards a sustainable level, within GOI's decentralizedframework.
Component Al. Support Bappenas transport planning and management guidance - Total cost
US$0.6 million
The decentralization of regional and provincial planning requires a coincident agreement by Bappenas to
support and guide the development of increased regional and provincial autonomy. This component includes
consulting services to support the development of clear decision criteria and guidelines from Bappenas for
Provincial input. The proposed TA will enable Bappenas to create a positive working relationship with the
Provincial TPC (Transport Planning Commissions under Bappeda I). This top-down guidance will enhance
bottom-up feed-back and lead to improved fund allocation.
Component A2. Develop strategic transport planning - Total cost US$9.5 million
The objective is a sustainable ongoing planning and prioritizing capability at the Province level which can both
trade off competing needs in the transport sector as well as more adequately prioritize and schedule medium term
programs, as an improved framework for annual planning. Specific activities include definition of a regional
transport strategy, preparation of long term plans, feasibility studies and other surveys (details in Annex 4). Direct
involvement of the Bappeda through the TPC will improve coordination among the various members of the
transport community at the province level. This component includes consulting services for support to (i) the PMU
(WM6.0) and (ii) the BAPPEDA in each province ($M2.3). Also, studies to assess transport priorities in other
regions and prepare future regional transport projects will be carried out ($M 1.2).
Component A3. Improve annual planning/programming in project area - Total cost US$0.5
niillion
Assistance in sustaining and improving established procedures is to cover the following six main areas: (i) planning
surveys and analysis; (ii) environmental screening and studies; (iii) audit, monitoring and eligibility review; (iv)
programming and budgeting; (v) financial and physical monitoring; and (vi) database establishment and
maintenance. Training (formal and on-the-job) will take place in each province. This component includes
consulting services to Bangda and to PMU (the latter being funded under the general PMU Consultancy under
component A2).
OUTPUTB    Improvement of the national, provincial, and kabupaten road networks in the project
area accelerated, towards environmentally sustainable and economically efficient levels.
Component B1. Regional road network preservation - Total cost US$202.8 million
This component comprises road maintenance, minor widening and betterment. These works can be evaluated
and programmed primarily by established programmatic means using the IRMS for national/provincial roads
and the "SK77" planning procedures (the manual equivalent of the Kabupaten Road Economic Evaluation
Model or KREEM) for kabupaten roads.
Maintenance
The project excludes funding of maintenance on national/provincial roads because the periodic overlay
philosophy is well entrenched through IRMS and routine maintenance allocations appear adequate. In the
kabupaten sector the situation is different: the Kabupaten Roads Projects that covered the project area (KR3
and KR5) laid a foundation for systematic maintenance procedures and funding which achieved notable



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 20                 Northem Sumatra Region Road Project
success, but to ensure that sustainable maintenance practices take firm root, it is important now to reinforce
this foundation with a follow-up project. A strengthened maintenance policy will be applied, based on (i) the
definition of kabupaten strategic networks, (ii) preparation of five year plans defining multi-year works
packages which include all the works required to complete any individual "strategic corridor" to a stable (i.e.
good or fair) condition at the end of the period. The project will support any maintenance works appropriate to
achieve this on the selected corridors, through (i) a "Core Maintenance Program" comprising routine
maintenance and overlays, wholly GOI funded, and (ii) a periodic maintenance program financed under the
Loan. This approach will encourage the adoption of the "regional approach" since it will reward those
kabupatens who follow their defined five year plans and penalize those who do not. It will also help to ensure
adequate maintenance of roads in the planning of the annual programs.
Betterment
In the case of national/provincial roads this category includes minor wiclening (up to 2 meters) within the
existing ROW. In the case of kabupaten roads, the selection of betterment works will be based on the 5-year
plans and the defined strategic network. As mentioned in the maintenance section above, the project will
support any preservation works needed to achieve the target condition in the selected corridors.
Component B2. Regional road network development - Total cost US$143.9 million
This component comprises major capacity expansion and new construction /upgrading. These works cannot
yet be handled adequately by programmatic means, but usually require individual study in a wider regional
and network planning context.
Capacity expansion. Subprojects identified for capacity expansion works are all part of the national/provincial
networks. They will require full feasibility and design studies with special attention to be paid to (i)
environmental and social impacts and (ii) reliability of traffic data. In viiew of the lead time for preparation,
implementation of these works is scheduled in years 3 and 4 of the project.
Network extension
In the case of national/provincial roads, a priority list of candidate network extension subprojects has been
prepared. There appear to be no such subprojects in the region for whiclh the required preparatory studies have
been completed, so none are programmed in the first two years of the project. A key objective of the project is
to establish a preparatory pipeline approach to network development as ia standard component of an improved
road planning system, as an altemative to the present approach based on incremental investments under
"special programs" without much study of any kind.
In the case of kabupatens, the network extension category is defined as the "non-motorable" (mainly earth)
routes which will mostly involve new construction or upgrading. Again the priority linkages will be
considered to be those on the defined strategic network. Candidate subprojects have already been screened.
The selection of the links for inclusion in the project will require additional surveys and analyses, including the
consideration of altemative design standards. About 25 km per kabupaten is programmed for support under
the project.



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 21                 Northern Sumatra Region Road Project
Civil Works: Data on Lengths/Costs
Component B 1: Preservation Works             Component B2: Development Works
Length      Costs                              Length      Costs
(km)    (US$m) _/                              (km)    (US$m)!/
Katbupaten Maintenance:                        Capacity Expansion:
- Core Program:                                - National/Provincial     130        55.7
*routine maintenance   19,800     22.8
*overlays              2,640      30.4     Network Extension:
- National/Provincial     130       27.8
- Pleriodic Maintenance:  6,600       78.8      - Kabupaten               825        49.8
Betterment:
-- National/Provincial    120       12.0     Land Acquisition:
-- Kabupaten              990       44.3       - National/Provincial      -          6.5
Minor Widening:                                  - Kabupaten               _          4.0
-- National/Provincial    120       14.6
Total                        202.8             Total                         143.9
1/ Include works supervision
OU:TPUT C    Resource use and service delivery improved through gains in policy implementation and
technical efficiency.
Component Cl. Enhance quality and technical efficiency - Total cost US$2.4 million
There will be a fully integrated implementation and QA management team established under the PMU. This
team will comprise a core unit in Jakarta with suitable types of specialists, combined with independent quality
advisers in the provinces and senior quality engineers in the kabupatens included in the supervision contracts.
The mission of this combined team is to design sustainable solutions to improve the standards of design and
construction, focusing on: (i) setting up consistent construction contract monitoring and control processes, (ii)
improving the design process, (iii) construction audit process, (iv) facilitating quality construction (operating
environment), and (v) advice on technical and contractual matters (support to PMU in these areas is funded
under the general PMU Consultancy under component A2). In addition, the component includes services for
improved strategic mapping (US$1.4 million), and specialized survey equipment such as RGDAS to allow a
complete survey of the project area and GPS to improve the mapping (US$1.0 million).
Component C2. Road traffic and transport policies - Total cost US$9.6 million
C2.a   Road Traffic Safety. A three year program comprising institutional strengthening of provincial road
traffic and transport agencies and selective investments to address critical road safety issues. This includes
consulting services, civil works and equipment (US$6.4 million).
C2.b   Vehicle Overloading. A three-year program comprising institutional strengthening, awareness
campaigns, enforcement actions and provision of equipment to reduce vehicle overloading (US$3.2 million).



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 22                 Northern Sumatra Region Road Project
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
PROJECT COMPONENT                                Local         Foreign        Total
---------------US$ million----
A. Road Network Improvement
Kabupaten Preservation                                        92.3             60.8         153.1
Kabupaten Network Development                                 29.3             17.0         46.3
National Provincial Preservation                              13.1             10.5         23.5
National Provincial Network Development                       45.2             31.7         76.9
Subtotal Road Network Improvement                            179.9            120.0        299.9
B. Integration/Strengthening of Transport Planning
Support BAPPENAS Transport Planning Guidance                   0.2             0.3           0.6
Develop Strategic Planning                                     3.4              5.2          8.6
Improve Annual Planning/Programming                            0.2             0.3           0.5
Subtotal Integration/Strengthening of Transport Planning       3.8              5.9          9.7
C. Policy Implementation and Technical Efficiency
1. Technical Efficiency
Enhancing Quality                                           0.6              1.6           2.1
2. Road Traffic/Transport Policy Implementation
VWD Improvements                                            0.8              2.0           2.9
Road Traffic Safety                                         2.2              3.5           5.7
Subtotal Road Traffic/Transport Policy Implementation       3.0              5.5           8.5
Subtotal Policy Implementation and Technical Efficiency        3.6             7.1           10.7
Total Baseline Cost                                             187.4            132.9         320.3
Physical Contingencies                                         [18.7           13.3          32.0
Price Contingencies                                            [0.1             6.9          17.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                      2116.2           153.1         369.3
Cost estimates represent base costs as of November 1997. They have been derived from completed and ongoing
contracts for civil works and consultancies. Price contingencies have been estimated based on the following rates of
inflation: for local costs, 11% in 1998, 8.5% in 1999, 7.5% in 2000, and 6.5% thereafter; for foreign costs, 2.2% from 1998
onwards.
The exchange rate adopted is 3,500 Rupiah per US$ (the rate of 2,400 Rp./US$ adopted at appraisal in July 1997
was considered inadequate at negotiations in December 1997; the rate finally adopted represents the mid-point in the range
then contemplated by GOI for use in budget preparation).



PFroject Appraisal Document                  Page 23                 Northern Sumatra Region Road Project
Annex 4
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
(Rupiah, billion in 1996 prices)
Present Value of Flows @ 15%             Fiscal Impact
Economic    Financial Analysis
Analysis
Benefits
2,962             N.A.          The impact of project on GOI
Costs                                                        Road Expenditures and
839           (No direct     Revenues is neutral.
revenues)
Net Benefits:                 2,123
IRR:                          30%
13enefits and Beneficiaries
Benefits. The project aims at improving the efficiency of road expenditures in the project region at three
levels: (i) in terms of balance between parts of the network (national, provincial and kabupaten roads) and
types of road works (for preservation and development); (ii) in terms of the appropriateness of the individual
interventions selected; and (iii) in terms of the quality of works execution. These improvements will be
achieved on the one hand through capacity building in planning and implementation, and on the other by
financing a part of the work program developed on the basis of improved procedures introduced under the
project. The improvements will give rise to a wide range of benefits some of which are easily quantifiable and
some of which are less so.
The project also aims at improving the efficiency of the road transport system as a whole, by supporting
implementation of GOI's policies on road use. The focus is on the effective implementation in the project
region of road traffic safety and vehicle weight and dimension policies developed at the national level.
The benefits of improved efficiency of overall road expenditures are expected to be very significant. They
result from capacity building, a regional planning focus which will lead to fund allocations that more closely
reflect needs and potential economic returns and improved works execution. While conservative estimates of
aLchievable efficiency gains indicate that the additional costs to achieve these gains are recouped several times,
these benefits are not easily quantifiable. Equally, the benefits of improved road traffic safety and reduced
vehicle overloading are not easily quantifiable. The benefit/cost evaluation, therefore, focuses on the
quantifiable benefits, i.e. those associated with the Bank financed road works. These will bring about
reductions in vehicle operating costs and have a high rate of return. Given the relatively small cost of the
institution building, the overall economic return of the project, i.e. including the benefits from efficiency gains
in the overall program, will not be less than that calculated for the road works components only.
B3eneficiaries. The savings in vehicle operating costs deriving from the civil works financed under the project
will benefit all road users comprising road transport operators, own account operators and private road users.
Because of the competitive conditions in road transport markets in the region, - as evidenced by the fact that
on heavily trafficked routes bus fares and transport rates are low by any standard - the savings in vehicle
operating costs are being passed on to producers and consumers. This will generally also be the case for the
savings accruing to own account operators, while private road users benefit directly from the cost reductions.



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 24                Northern Sumatra Region Road Project
The design standards, work specifications and operating procedures introduced under the project to address
environmental, social and safety issues of road construction and operation will benefit road users and in
particular non-motorized road users as well as people living along the road.
The greater efficiency and effectiveness of road sector expenditures on the entire regional road network will
benefit the regional economy and the population at large. Finally, viewed as a series of projects, the regional
project concept will promote equitable and efficient regional development which will benefit Indonesia's
economy at large.
Road Works Program Preparation Cycle
The new procedures to be introduced in the project region focus on the identification and development of long
and medium-term plans and annual programs which achieve a better balance of expenditures between the
various transport networks and better serve the growth potential of the region. These procedures are intended
to be applied regardless of the funding source of the annual programs.
The new procedures rely on six planning components as follows:
Strategic Network. For each kabupaten and province a strategic network is defined within its boundaries to
cover a five-year planning period. It comprises: all national and provincial roads, all inter kabupaten roads, all
linkages between towns and national provincial roads and some other strategic linkages to locations of
economic activity.
Transport Development Strategy. This is to be defined in each province to ensure that regional and spatial
planning aspects as well as environmental and social issues are considered in the selection of the optimal
transport mode and of investments within modes to meet transport requirements.
Five-year Road Development Plans. These are based on an assessment of the needs for works and the
identification of appropriate works.
Prioritization and Selection of Projects for the Five-year Plans. For fonnulation of the short to medium term
program in the provinces, the project preparation study has developed screening procedures to select candidate
projects for more detailed studies. Ultimately the prioritization will rely on economic analysis at the pre-
feasibility stage.
Formulation of Annual Work Programs and Identification of Appropriate Works. The annual work programs
for the provinces comprising all types of works on all three categories of the network are formulated using
economic criteria. Routine and periodic maintenance and betterment and minor widening are to be identified
using existing planning and programming procedures (IRMS for national and provincial roads, and SK77 for
kabupaten roads) based on economic criteria. Major capacity expansion and network extension will be
identified and prioritized following the process outlined above and evaluated following feasibility studies.
Because the existing programming procedures under the national and provincial roads (IRMS) and kabupaten
roads (SK77) take no account of such factors as congestion, accident black spots, sharp bends and turns, poor
alignment, etc. procedures are introduced to also consider the options of straightening, alternative alignments
or traffic management which can modify the appropriate works for any segment particularly when contiguous
linkages are considered.
Establishment of a Provincial Database. This will compile all the data concerning transport systems, currently
produced as part of the planning and implementation of the works under the kabupaten and national and
provincial programs.
Cost Benefit Analysis of Road Works
The road works financed by the Bank project are generated as part of the province-wide selection and
evaluation processes outlined above. The results of the cost benefit analysis of these works represent the final
outcome of program preparation and evaluation. This final analysis is a relatively minor part of the
comprehensive planning and evaluation process carried out as part of the project and to be institutionalized



IProject Appraisal Document                Page 25                Northern Sumatra Region Road Project
through the project. The economic evaluation of these works is carried out separately for each component
followed by an overall evaluation of all components combined. This combined evaluation is in accordance
with the allocation of project funds to the various road networks and works categories (components) which has
been designed to promote the strategic planning objectives of the project as a whole.
'General Evaluation Approach and Parameters
All investments are evaluated following a standard discounted cash flow approach based on construction and
imaintenance costs on the one hand and road user savings accruing to all categories of road users on the other.
The discount rate is 15%. Construction and maintenance costs are assessed in economic terms following an
adjustment of financial costs to account for taxes and duties. Costs and benefits are in early 1997 prices.
Construction costs include the cost of supervision (overall, 4%) and physical contingencies (10 %). Vehicle
operating costs (voc) used are those that have been developed under the Interurban Road Management System
(IRMS) for national and provincial roads, and under the Kabupaten Roads Economic Evaluation Model
(KREEM) for kabupaten roads. The benefit calculations include a value of time component for working time,
i.e. for drivers and crew and for passengers in work status. These values are based on estimates of the average
number of passengers for each vehicle category and of the percent of trips with an economic value. For
passenger car traffic, the value of passenger time per hour is estimated at 430 Rp. The value of time
component in the voc for passenger cars represents about 10% of voc. The average for all vehicle categories
combined is 8%.
Results by Component
Betterment and Minor Widening. The evaluation carried out for a first group of 6 subprojects for a total of
:278 km yields ERRs ranging between 16% and 49%.
'Capacity Expansion. An evaluation was carried out for two typical cases developed from an initial list of 12
candidate subprojects. Construction cost ranges from Rp 600 to Rp 1,450 million per km and where applicable
include the cost of mitigating environmental and social impacts. The ERRs are 36% and 31% respectively.
Routine Maintenance of Kabupaten Roads. The evaluation for a range of road conditions and traffic levels
'(over 50 vehicles per day on asphalt roads and over 20 vehicles per day on gravel roads) shows ERRs ranging
from 30% to 60%.
Periodic Maintenance of Kabupaten Roads. The evaluation for a range of road conditions and traffic levels
,(fair seal, 50-100 veh/day; fair seal, 100-200 veh/day; poor gravel, 21-50 veh/day) show ERRs ranging from
:20% to 40%.
Betterment/Upgrading of Kabupaten Roads. The evaluation for a range of 8 road conditions and traffic levels
i(from poor seal 100-200 veh/day to bad earth 50-100 veh/day) shows ERRs ranging from 15% to 40% with
traffic levels over 50 vehicles on asphalt roads and from 10-20% for traffic over 20 veh/day on gravel roads.
*New Construction of Kabupaten Roads. The evaluation shows that a typical new construction of a kabupaten
:road serving a population of 3,000 yields an ERR of 22%.
New Construction of Provincial Road. The economic return for new construction has been derived from
typical provincial road construction and maintenance costs (including the cost of mitigating environmental and
social impacts where applicable) and data on benefits from a typical "producer surplus" analysis from the
special studies program in Pasaman. The ERR is estimated at 21%.
Overall Economic Evaluation
For the overall economic evaluation, the cost and benefit cash flows obtained under each of the above
components have been combined in accordance with the allocation of project funds to the various road works
components. The project cash flow includes the cost of mitigation of environmental and social impacts where
applicable, of consultancy services for works supervision and a physical contingency of 10 %. The cost of
the road works thus defined represents 94% of the total project cost. The resulting overall ERR for these



Project Appraisal Document                  Page 26                  Northem Sumatra Region Road Project
components is 30%. The net present value at a 15% discount rate is Rp 2,122 billion and the benefit/cost ratio
is 3.45:1.
Sensitivity Analysis and Switching Values
The main project risks identified (annex 1) - commitment at higher levels, adequate counterpart funds for
maintenance of Kabupaten roads, delays in procurement, implementation capacity, competitive conditions in
industry - ultimately translate into higher construction costs and/or lower benefits. A sensitivity analysis was
carried out in respect of each project component to assess the impact of less favorable outcomes of
construction costs and benefits on the ERR. This analysis shows that for the Network Extension component
which has the lowest base ERR (21%), construction costs would have to be more than 100% higher for the
ERR to reduce to 10%; or traffic volume would have to be more than 50% lower for the ERR to reduce to
10%; or alternatively a combination of a 50% increase in construction cost and a 25% decrease in traffic
would have to occur to reduce the ERR to 10%. Based on past experience with cost estimation and traffic
forecasts and actuals, the probability of these outcomes is very low.
A sensitivity analysis of the overall project was also carried out to test the impact of generalized higher
construction costs and reduced benefits. These results are summarized in the table below; they show that even
with costs 20% higher and benefits 20% lower than the base case the ERR is still 25%.
Results of Sensitivity Analysis
ERR %                                        NPV@ 15% (Rp. billion)
Costs     1.0        0.8        1.2                CoSts     1.0        0.8         1.2
Benefits C_                        _     _Benefits             _
1.0       30.2        32.8       28.0              1.0        2,122      2,280       1,964
0.8        27.7       30.0       25.3              0.8        1,530      1,687        1,372
1.2       32.5        35.1       30.4              1.2        2,714      2,872       2,557
Finally, an accelerated depreciation of the rupiah, accompanied with higher inflation was tested. With a rate of
Rp. 5,000/US$ and 20% inflation in year I of the project, costs would increase by 12%, and benefits would
increase by about 15%; this would lead to an ERR of about 31%. With -an exchange rate of 7,500 and inflation
of 30%, costs and benefits would increase respectively by about 26% and 32%, resulting in an ERR of about
31.5%. The above reflects the fact that the foreign content of benefits is higher than the foreign content of
costs.
Road Traffic and Transport Policy Component
At both the national and regional level, the efficiency of the road sector is not only determined by road
development and preservation policies but also by road use policies. To complement improvements in the
road expenditure program, the project will focus on improvements in road traffic safety and VWD policies
Given the state of knowledge on these issues in general and in Indonesia in particular it is not possible to carry
out a meaningful quantification of the benefits of a given package of measures and initiatives. However, the
component, which comprises institution building actions and a carefully selected program of investments, has
been developed through an iterative process involving all the key agencies involved to ensure that the most
important road safety and VWD issues will be addressed in a cost effective manner.
The institution building measures aim at implementing in the project region the institutional strengthening
objectives adopted nationally and including the introduction of the traffic accident reporting form (which will
establish the basis for reliable monitoring of traffic accidents), the establishment of provincial road safety



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 27                 Northem Sumatra Region Road Project
units, the establishment of a black spot improvement capability and of a VWD enforcement capability. In
addition, the component will address critical and specific vehicle safety, driver education and overloading
issues.
The development of the component involved the following key steps:
*  a desk review of information and data on road safety and VWD issues;
* field surveys in each of the provinces to collect additional data and discussions with concerned parties;
*  development of initial proposals taking into account three main criteria: severity of the issues, likelihood
of achieving measurable improvements, and sustainability after completion of the project based on
institutional capacity and funding requirements;
* development of scaled down proposals following internal reviews and taking into account comments from
other agencies and the World Bank;
* conduct of provincial workshops to present the revised proposals to concerned parties to obtain their input
and feedback;
*  finalization of proposals and of implementation arrangements.
Fiscal Impact
The fiscal impact of the project is determined by: (i) the objectives of the project; and (ii) its programmatic
features. By providing support to GOI's road expenditures programs in the project region during the period
1 998i99 - 2001/02, the project aims at improving the composition and the effectiveness of the expenditure
program on a sustainable basis.
Impact on Expenditures
The project will not place additional demands on GOI's expenditures. With the project, public expenditures
on roads in the project region would remain at the same level as without the project. During the past three
years, expenditures have been on the order of Rp. 700 bln/year (US$300 mln/year). Owing to the project, road
expenditures will increase on a one-off basis by about US$60 mln/year during the project period. Upon
completion they will revert back to their trend level. The additional expenditures will be directed to a range of
road works, including periodic maintenance, backlog rehabilitation, new construction, capacity expansion.
Upon completion of the project and because of its impact on road conditions, expenditures needed to achieve
the same level of service as in recent years should actually decrease. It is more likely, however, that the trend
level of expenditures will be maintained and the condition of the road network and the level of service will
improve.
I_pact on GOI Revenues
Neither the road programs in general nor the project in particular generate direct revenues for government.
Road users, however, contribute to central and local government revenues through taxation on vehicles, fuel
and parts and the annual vehicle registration fee.
Because the project will reduce the overall level of vehicle operating costs, its impact on government revenues
will be negative at the margin as lower vehicle operating costs are equivalent to slower depreciation of
vehicles and lower consumption of fuel and parts.
Project/Program Sustainability
The approaches introduced through the project are nevertheless sustainable because: (i) the marginal reduction
in revenues from road user taxation can be made up by taxing part of the gains obtained by road users from
better roads; (ii) the improved roads and lower vehicle operating costs will be beneficial for economic activity
in general and will help stimulate economic growth; and (iii) the project supports GOI's policy to improve the
structure and level of road user taxation and will thereby contribute to making good any reduction in
government revenues.



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 28                     Northem Sumatra Region Road Project
Annex 5
Financial Summary
Years Ending March 31(US$ million, current prices)
Implementation Period                Operational Period
98/99     99/00      00/01      01/02
Project Costs I/
Total                    24.0       82.0      120.0     143.3            No increase in GOT
road expenditures
Financing Sources (% of total                                                 above trend level.
project costs)
IBRD                        15.2      52.0       76.0       90.8
Government                   8.8      30.0       44.0       52.5
of which: Central           7.7       26.1       38.3      45.7
Local              1.1       3.9        5.7        6.8
Total                         24.0       82.0      120.0     143.3
1/ Programmatic support to expenditure program
The Bank loan of US$234.0 million will finance about 63.4% of the total project cost of US$369.3 million
(including taxes amounting to US$32.6 million). GOI would provide US$135.3 million (or about 36.6% percent of
total costs). In terms of cost sharing, the Bank loan would finance 70 percent of total costs net-of-tax, which is well
above the country recommendations for this type of project, as justified below.
In terms of local costfinancing, the loan will finance about 55% of local CoSts. This is partly (for about 3 percent) a
consequence of Bank's procurement policy (to protect local consultants and suppliers against discrimination in
competitive selection); but mostly (for the remaining 52 percent), such local cost financing is justified on project
grounds as follows: (i) regional development orientation; (ii) overall financing for road sector investment is largely
by internal savings and tax revenues (up to 75% with balance by external financing); (iii) for this project, important
counterpart contribution; (iv) appropriateness of share of loan amount in order to realize appropriate Bank role and
leverage in developing the necessary institutional arrangement for the project and the sector. Macroec3nomic
conditions refer to the deterioration in the financial and budgetary situation, which is causing a significant
reduction in the availability of local funds. It is estimated that project grounds would have warranted a cost-sharing
of about 55%, but to help GOI face the financial and budgetary crisis, the cost-sharing was increased to 70%.
Financial implications
Because of the programmatic nature and the objectives of the project, its financial implications are similar to the
fiscal impact discussed above. During the implementation period, project costs will be funded through central and
local government budgets and the Bank loan. There are no user fees or other funding sources. The counterpart funds
(central and local government) are part of the expenditures that would have been funded for road works in the
region without the project in any event.
Upon completion of the project there is no need to budget additional expenditures over and above those that would
have been funded without the project. Funding for road works can revert back to the trend level but the
composition of these expenditures will more closely reflect needs and achieve higher effectiveness.



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 29                Northern Sumatra Region Road Project
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
PRIOCUREMENT
Procurement of works and goods will follow the Bank Guidelines dated January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996. Standard Bidding Documents (including standard prequalification and bid
evaluation documents) will be used for all Bank-financed procurement. Procurement of consulting services
and the format for consultants' contracts will both be based on the Bank Guidelines dated January 1997 and
revised in September 1997. A Procurement Plan, providing a timeline for each step of the procurement
process, is included in the PIP, to be updated annually.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A indicates the project costs by procurement arrangements. Regarding civil works, it is
expected that ICB would be used for the following sub-categories: on national/provincial roads, 80% of
development works and 60% of preservation works; on kabupaten roads, 20% of development works -ICB is
nol expected to be used on other kabupaten works because of their small size and scattered nature (details on
sub-categories are provided in Annex 3). This represents about one-third of civil works financed under the
loan. All other works would be carried out under NCB. NCB procedures use mostly ICB documents
translated into Indonesian and advertised locally; they are acceptable to the Bank insofar as they do not include
provisions on domestic preference and use of the two-envelope system (this was agreed at negotiations).
Regarding goods, most equipment for MOC and the PMU would be procured under ICB; the rest would be
prcocured under NCB; smaller items, under individual contracts of $50,000 or less up to an aggregate of $0.2
milllion, would be procured under international shopping. Regarding consultants services, the QCBS (quality
and cost based selection) method is expected to be used in all cases.
Prequalification and packaging
Contractors for civil works will be prequalified. Invitations for prequalification will be issued in
accordance with the Bank guidelines. Prequalified contractors will be allowed to bid on any contract or group
of contracts for the above civil works but will be eligible for awards only up to the value of works for which
they are prequalified. To increase the efficiency of the contracting process for works on kabupaten roads,
contracts will be packaged as follows:
*  All betterment contracts to be over Rp. I billion so that they are carried out by class A contractors;
*  All periodic maintenance contracts to be over Rp.0.5 billion so that they are carried out by class B I
contractors.
In addition, multi-year contracts will be used to the extent possible.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B indicates the threshold values for ICB, NCB, and intemational shopping, as well as prior
review thresholds. For administrative simplicity, the threshold for ICB is similar for works on
national/provincial roads and on kabupaten roads. However, since contract size is expected to be much
smaller on kabupaten roads, the threshold for prior review is set at $3 million for works on national/provincial
roads and $1.5 million on kabupaten roads (this will allow to capture about 50% of development works in
kabupatens). In addition, for preservation works in kabupatens, which will be far below the above threshold,
bid documents for the first contract in each sub-category (betterment, periodic maintenance), will be reviewed
by the Bank. The review process would thus cover about 42% of the total works contract value; this relatively
low percentage, which is mostly due to civil works on the kabupaten network, is considered acceptable, since



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 30                Northem Sumatra Region Road Project
(i) the Lead Implementing agency gained much experience in works and goods procurement in previous
projects; (ii) kabupaten preservation works involve a large number of small repetitive contracts; (iii) GOI
agreed at negotiations to conduct Project Launch Workshops where all Standard Bidding Documents to be
used under the project would be disseminated to all kabupatens, and to strengthen its quality assurance and
technical audit systems to prevent any risk of misprocurement; and (iv) there will be a compensating higher
intensity of post review. Selective post review of awarded contracts below the threshold would be carried out
on about 1 in 5 works contracts on national/provincial roads and about I in 10 contracts on kabupaten roads.
DISBURSEMENT
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C shows the allocation of loan proceeds by category and the disbursement percentages proposed
in each category. The estimated disbursements by year and cumulative is shown as part of the Project
Financing Data in cover page.
Special Account:
In order to facilitate loan disbursements, GOI will establish a Special Account in Bank Indonesia or in
a state commercial bank, to be maintained in US Dollars. The authorized ceiling for the account (equivalent to
four month average project disbursements), will be $15 million. The account will be managed by the
Directorate General of Budget, Ministry of Finance. Replenishment of the account will be made on a monthly
basis, or when 20%of the authorized ceiling has been disbursed, whichever is earlier.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
Disbursements from the loan for the following types of contrac<ts require full documentation: (i) civil
works contracts for national/provincial roads valued at or over $3 million and kabupaten roads valued at or
over $1.5 million; (ii) goods contracts valued at or over $200,000; and (iii) consulting services with firms
valued at or over $100,000 or with individuals valued at or over $50,000. All other disbursements will be
made against statements of expenditure (SOE), for which full supporting documentation will be retained by the
Directorate General of Budget and the implementing agencies, and made available to the Bank on request.



F'roject Appraisal Document                  Page 31                  Northern Sumatra Region Road Project
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Total Cost
Expenditure Category                     Procurement Method                    (including
contingencies)
ICB         NCB         Other       N.B.F
1. WORKS                           91.8        183.9         -           63.7 1/     339.4
(69.0)      (137.9)        -                      (206.9)
2. GOODS                            3.0          0.5         0.2 2/                     3.7
(2.6)        (0.5)       (0.2)                     (3.3)
3. SERVICES                                                 26.2 3/                    26.2
(23.8)                    (23.8)
Total                           94.8        184.4        26.4          63.7        369.3
(71.6)      (138.4)      (24.0)                   (234.0)
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
1/ Includes (i) the "core maintenance program" to be financed by Local Governments's budget (about US$53.2
million), and (ii) land acquisition (about US$10.5 million).
2/ International shopping
3/ Consulting services



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 32                 Northem Sumatra Region Road Project
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure            Contract Value            Procurement         Contracts Subject
Category               (Threshold)               Method            to Prior Review/
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior
Review
1. Works
Civil works on         ($3 million and over       ICB                    Yes) 75% value
national/provincial    (                                                    ) coverage or
network                (Under $3 million         NCB                     No) $82.3 million
Civil works on         ($3 million and over      ICB                     Yes)
kabupaten network      (                                                    ) 20% value
($1.5 to $3 million       NCB                    Yes) coverage or
) $33.5 million
(Under $1.5 million       NCB                      No l/
Sub-total value of works contracts subject to prior review = US$115.8 million, or 42% coverage.
2. Goods
$200,000 and over         ICB                    Yes)
) 80% value
$50,000 to $200,000       NCB                     No) coverage or
) $3 million
Under $50,000             International shopping    No)
3. Services
Consulting services    All                       QCBS                   100%  or $26.2
million
Total value subject to prior review = US$145 million, or 47% of contracts financed under the loan.
1/ For preservation works in kabupatens: bid documents for the first contract in each sub-category (betterment,
periodic maintenance), to be reviewed by the Bank. Otherwise selective post review will be carried out.



Project Appraisal Document                  Page 33                  Northern Sumatra Region Road Project
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category             Amount in          Financing Percentage
US$ million
1. Civil Works:
(a) Kabupaten Roads Works                  113.6                   75%
(b) National/Provincial Roads Works        74.5                    75%
(c) Design and supervision                   8.6                   100%
2. Goods                                        3.0      100 % of foreign expenditures for
directly imported items; or 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory, net
of taxes) of locally manufactured
items; and 65% of local
expenditures for other locally
procured items.
3. Consultants Services                        13.1                   100%
4. Unallocated                                 21.2
Total                                     234.0



Project Appraisal Document                         Page 34                    Northern Sumatra Region Road Project
Annex 7
Roles and Responsibilities of Agencies involved in Project Implementation
Participating Agency         Role                                   Responsibilities
BAPPENAS                  Budget Allocation    Allocate financial resources to meet the economic needs of provinces and
and oversight       kabupatens.
Min. Home Affairs:        Coordination and    Coordinate Provincial Government activities
DG Organization (PUOD)   Administration of    Issue instructions to Bappeda to set up TPC and develop RRP activities.
and                      local road programs.  Participate in PMU
DG Regional Development                       Monitor the progress of planning and works program.
(BANGDA)
Establish a provincial database on road planning and works progress
BAPPEDA Tkl               Preparation of      Organize a Transport Planning Commission in the Provinces.
Provincial          Define a Strategic Transport Network/ Strategy
Ensure 5-year transport plans are produced in province and kabupatens,
and that annual transport programs are in agreement with 5-year plan.
Establish a transport planning and development database.
BAPPEDA Tkll              Preparation of      Organize a Transport Planning Commission in the Kabupaten.
Kabupaten           Define a Strategic Transport Network/Strategy.
Development Plans   Prepare 5-year transport development plans
Establish a transport planning and development database.
DGH (Bina Marga)          Lead                Establish and manage the Project Management Unit (PMU).
Implementing        Provide technical direction and monitoring of all aspects of the project.
Agency              National/provincial roads: Planning/Programming
Consolidation of IRMS 3-year and 5-year works programs
Kabupaten Roads: Definition of Planning Procedures (known as SK77)
Production of Annual kabupaten cost and benefit tables for SK77
Provincial Public Works  Technical Planning,  Define nationallprovincial annual works programs.
Department (DPUP)         Programming,
Implementation and   Define 5-year road development plan for province
Monitoring of       Prepare and let contracts for niational/provincial roads
Project works.
Monitor and report progress on civil works contracts
Establish quality control procedures and identify problem areas
Establish a provincial database on road planning and development
Kabupaten Public Works    Technical Planning   Prepare contract documentation and let contracts for kabupaten roads.
Department (DPUK)        Programming,
Implementation and   Define 5-year road development plan for kabupaten
Monitoring or       Monitor and report progress on civil works contracts
Project works.
Establish quality control procedures and identify problem areas
Establish a kabupaten databas-e on road planning and development
Min. of Communications    All transport modes   Assist in the development of a provincial transport strategy.
(DGLC & DLLAJs)           planning            Implement policies on vehicle weight/dimensions and traffic safety
Min. of Finance           Financial aspects   Management of loan funds.



Project Appraisal Document                  Page 35                Northern Sumatra Region Road Project
Annex 8
Financial Reporting and Auditing Framework
A. Internal Control Framework
The Internal Control (IC) framework for the Northern Sumatra Region Road Project (NSRRP) consists of
project management policies and procedures. It would follow the existing government internal control system,
which is basically satisfactory to the Bank. The IC structure comprises three elements: (a) organization
(institutional framework); (b) accounting system; and C) control procedures.
The existing government IC system is deemed adequate, based on the following factors:
*  Accounting system.
*  Organizational structure (institutional framework).
* Practices pertaining to the delegation of authority and responsibility, including job description.
* Management control methods, including internal auditing, budgeting, variance analysis and
forecasting.
*  Enforcement policies.
*  Authorized execution of transaction.
•  Limited access to assets.
*  Comparison of recorded amounts with assets in existence.
*  Trained, competent personnel.
C  Segregation of staff functions in ways which prevent staff from perpetrating or concealing errors and
irregularities.
B. Organization
Each main implementing unit would have a Pimpro (Project Manager) or Pimbagpro (subproject manager)
and a Bendaharawan (treasurer). They would have some assistance (as necessary) on procurement, and
technical and financial matters. The general requirements are (i) that staff should belong to the implementing
umit, (ii) competence, and (iii) a "Sarjana Degree" for pimpro and a "D III Degree" for treasurer. The specific
requirements for Pimpro/Pimbagpro and Bendaharawan would follow the MPW Decree No.53/KPTS/1994
regarding "Project Organization and Standard Requirements for Pimpro/Pimbagpro" or other relevant
Ministerial Decree in each implementing agency.
The project's implementing agencies would train their staff (as necessary), to fulfill the requirements. They
should fulfill the requirements from the beginning of the project.
C. Accounting System and Procedures
The general accounting system and procedures would follow government accounting system which is in line
with the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). The existing government accounting system is
satisfactory to the Bank. In addition, specific project accounting system and procedures would be spelled out
in the Project Monitoring System prepared by the PMU on the basis of existing systems developed under
previous projects.
The project's financial statement should show the financial position of NSRRP at the end of fiscal year, and
the funds received and expended during the fiscal year which ends on March 31. The financial statement
should be prepared in accordance with GAAP, and should include a Project Account (PA) report and a Special
Account/Statement of Expenditures (SA/SOE). Each Project Implementing Unit (PIU, namely the Pimpro and
the Treasurer) will prepare the PA report. The DG Budget, MOF would prepare the SA/SOE report.



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 36                 Northem Sumatra Region Road Project
The PA report, to be prepared by PMU, should include:
*  Summary of funds received from the Bank, other donors and the government's counterpart fund
sources separately.
*  Summary of expenditures shown under the project, broken down by project component and
expenditure categories, both for the current fiscal year and cumulative.
The PMU will use a consolidated PA format adapted for NSRRP, as shown in section F below.
The SA/SOE, to be prepared by DG Budget, should include:
*  Deposits and replenishments received from the Bank.
*  Withdrawals from SA and other sources, including all SOEs used as the basis for the submission of
withdrawal application.
*  The remaining balances at the end of each fiscal year.
*  Reconciliation between SA and amount being disbursed.
SA/SOE report would use a format developed previously and conveyed to DG Budget on June 8, 1992.
D. Financial Management and Reporting Requirements under the Project
Each implementing agency would establish and maintain an adequate and separate account from the beginning
of project implementation. All Pimpros from BANGDA, BAPPEDA Level 1, BAPPENAS, DGH, DGLC,
DLLAJ, DPUK and DPUP would prepare quarterly progress reports. These reports would be consolidated
with other components by Pimpro in PMU, who would submit the consolidated report to the Bank on the last
week of the fourth month. The annual consolidated financial report woulld be submitted to the Financial and
Development Supervisory Board (BPKP) or other qualified auditors acceptable to the Bank for audit.
E. Audit Requirements
The implementing agencies concerned are required under the NSRRP to:
a) maintain records and accounts to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the activities for which they are responsible for
implementation.
b) have these records and accounts audited for each fiscal year, to include disbursements made under the
project during the period.
c) furnish audit reports to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case no later than nine months after
the end of each fiscal year.
The specific audit requirements are as described below:
a) DG Budget, MOF would be responsible for preparing financial slatements for the Special Account.
DG Budget should furnish to the Bank a SA/SOE audit report, not later than six months after the end
of each fiscal year (i.e. by September 30 of each year).
b) PMU would be responsible for producing consolidated project reports, as well as progress reports, on
a quarterly basis. PMU should furnish to the Bank a consolidated PA audit report not later than 6
months after the end of each fiscal year (i.e. by September 30 of each year).
The financial statements, including the PA and SA/SOE, would be audited annually by the auditor, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Beside the annual audit, the Bank would conduct ex-post
reviews of all documents based on random sampling during supervision missions.



Project Appraisal Document                          Page 37                     Northern Sumatra Region Road Project
F.      Format of Consolidated Statement of Project Expenditure and Financing
Loan        Agency        Budget Allocated    Year-To-Date    Balance
Category                     During FY--/--     Realization
Sourceis of Project Financing
World Bank
GOI
Total Project Financing
Project Component
Part A. Strengthening of Transport Planning
a. Consultants' Services for:
a.1 Support Bappenas                                 3         Bappenas
a.2 Develop Strategic Planning                       3       DGH/Bappeda I
a.3 Improve Annual Planning/Programming              3          Bangda
Part B. Road Network Improvement
a. Civil Works - Kabupaten Road                      1 a         DPUK
b. Civil Works - National & Provincial               lb          DPUP
c. Design & Supervision                              lc         DPUK/P
d. Civil WNorks - Kabupaten Core Maintenance        NBF          DPUK
e. Land Acquisition                                 NBF         DPUK/P
Part C. Policy Implementation & Tech. Efficiency
C.1 Technical Efficiency
a. Equipment                                         2           DGH
b. Consultants' Services                             3           DGH
C.2 Policy Implementation
a. Civil WNorks - National & Provincial              lb          DPUP
b. Equipment                                         2           DGLC
c. Consultants' Services                             3           DGLC
Total Project Expenditure
NBF: Nlot Bank Financed (Wholly GOI Financed)



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 38                 Northem Sumatra Region Road Project
Annex 9
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$'000)               |        Planned        |       Actual
l   295.0    1        291.6
B. Project Schedule                       |        Planned_|             Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)              04/08/1996             04/08/1996
Appraisal mission departure                      02/28/1997             07/10/1997
Negotiations                                     03/24/1997             12/15/1997
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    09/01/19,97            05/291998
Prepared by: Directorate General of Highways and Directorate General of Land Transportation
Preparation assistance: Trust Fund No. 034128 (US$16,705)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Core Task Team                              Peer Reviewers
Jacques Tollie, engineering/institutional (task team  Hatim Halj, engineering, EASTR
leader), EASTR
George Tharakan, economics, MNSID
Joris Van der Ven, economics, policy, EASTR      Ken Chomitz, planning, DECRG
William Paterson, engineering/planning, EASTR
Concepcion del Castillo, social impact, ASUSD                  RSI Team
Anil Somani, environment, ASUEN                  Scott Guggenheim, social impact
Teresa Genta-Fons, legal, LEGEA                  David Halves, sector policy
Karin Nordlander, legal, LEGEA                   Suhadi Hadiwinoto, social impact
Bridie Champion, disbursement, LOAAS             Isono Sadoko, social impact
Boonsri Kim, task assistant, EASTR               William Hardi, operations officer
Thomas Walton, environment
Unggul Suprayitno, accounting/audit



F'roject Appraisal Document                  Page 39                 Northern Sumatra Region Road Project
Annex 10
Documents in the Project File
A.    Project Implementation Plan:
*  Draft Project Implementation Plan, DGH, December 1996
B.    Bank Staff Assessments:
*  Road Sector Study (Report No. 15394-IND), April 1996
*  Note on preparation of Road Traffic Safety and Vehicle Weight and Dimension Components, March
1997
*  Social Aspects related to Isolated People, May 1997
C.    Preparation Documents:
*  Regional Roads Transport Priorities Analysis (RRTPA) Phase 1, DGH, September 1996:
Volume 1: Summary
Volume 2: Main Report
- Volume 3: Annexes
*  RRTPA Phase 2, DGH, December 1996:
* Volume 1: Main Report
* Volume 2: The Northem Sumatra Region Road Project
* Volume 3: Draft Environmental/Social Impact Assessment
* Volume 4: Draft Project Implementation Plan/Memorandum
* Volume 5: Road Screening lists and supporting documentation



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 40                                                  Norther Sumatra Region Road Project
Annex II
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Indonesia
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Detween
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                  -                                                                                                     disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit       Year               Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                              IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 309
Active Loans;
ID-PE-48715   t8RD42440    1998                                      hIDP                             34.50        0.00            0.00         34.50        0.00      0e00
lD-PE-55755   IBRD42550    1998   TBO                                BANKING REFORM ASST.             20.00        0.00            0.00         20.00        0 00       0.00
ID-PE-35544   IBRD41320   1997  -GOI                                 SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS               20.00        0.00            0.00         20.00        1.40       0.00
lD-PE-36047   IBRD41550    1997   GOI                                BALI URBAN INFAAST.             110.00        0.00            0.00        110.00        o.e00      0.00
10-PE-360S3   lBRD4iOSA   1997   GOI                                  SULAWESI UDP II                149.58        0.00            0.00        148.96       21.36       0.00
ID-PE-3987    IBRO4062A   1997                                        C.INDONESIA SEC.EDU.           101.14        0.00            0.00        100.87       10.17       0.00
ID-PE-40195   IBRD41930    1997   GOT                                QUAL OF UNpERGRAO ED             71.20        0.00            0.00         71.20        3.50       0.00.
ID-PE-4026    IBRO41060    1997   GO1/PERUMKA                        RIMY EFFICIENCY                 105.00        0.00            0.00        105.00        6.00       0.00
ID-PE-40521   IBRD41000    1997   GO!                                VILLAGE INFRA II                140.10        0.00            0.00        121.29       18.68       0.00
10-PE-42540   !8RD41250    1997                                       IODINE DEF. CONTROL             28.50        0.00            0.00         27.36         .66       0.00
lD-PE-42882   IBRD41980    1997   GOI                                RENW. ESER SMAL PW P             66.40        0.00            0.00         66.40        0.00       0.00
ID-PE-49051   IBRD41940    1997                                      0EPEKA AUDIT MOOER P             16.40        0.00            0.00         16.40        2.30       0.00
ID-PE-37097   IERD4042A    1996   GOI                                E.JAVA SEC.EDUC.                 96.50        0.00            0.00         96.50        7.50       0.00
1D-PE-39312   IBRD4017A    1996   GOI                                SECOND E. JAVA UDP              129.64        0.00            0.00        129.46       47.77       0.00
ID-PE-39643   IBRD39810   1996   GO!                                 STDOAIDS                         24.80        0.00            0.00         23.26       11.47       0.00
ID-PE-3978    IBRD3972A   1996   GO0                                  IND'L TECHNOLOGY DEV            40.08        0.00            0.00         40.01       21.57       0.00
ID-PE-4003    IBRD3979A    1996   DOt                                SECONDARY SCnwL T.A              54.40        0.00            0.00         54.04       18.71       0.00
ID-PE-4004    IBRD4043A    1996   GOI                                HIGHER EDUC SUP.(III             56.80        0.00            0.00         56.02         .51       0.00
ID-PE-4008    IBRD39S4A    1996   GOT                                NUSA TENGGARA D0EV.              24.80        0.00            0.00         24.80        3.51       0.00
ID-PE-4011    IBRD4007A    1996   GOl                                SULAWESI AGRI AREA               23.97        0.00            0.00         23.63         .82       0.00
ID-PE-4014    IBRD4008A    1996   -O0                                KERINCI SEBLAT ICOP              18.47        0.00            0.00         18.47        2.67       0.00
ID-PE-4016    IBR040540    1996   REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA              STRATEGIC URB. ROS 1             86.90        0.00            0.00         77.85       12.15       0.00
ID-PE-4021    IBRD3978A    1996   GO!                                 POW. TRANS & DIST II           362.74        0.00            0.00        362.36      107.66       5.36
ID-PE-41896   IBRD4O30A    1996   GO!                                 HR CAPACITY BUILDING            19.31        0.00            0.00         19.26        3.76       0.00
ID-PE-34891   IBR038886    1995   GOI                                VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTU             47.10        0.00            0.00          3.90       -1.10       0.00
ID-PE-3951    IBRD3854A    1995   GOI                                KALIMANTAN UDP                   77.43        O.00            0.00         77.43       39.43       0.00
I0-PE-3965   IBRD39050    1995   GO!                                 HEALTH IV:IMlPR HEALT            1.00        0.00            0.00          0.00        6.04       0.00
ID-PE-3965    IBRD39056    1995   GOI                                HEALTH IV:IMPR HEALT             87.00        0.00            0.00         78.05        6.04       0.00
ID-PE-3968    IBRD38O70   1995                                       BOOK a READING DEV                2.10        0.00            0.00           .10       -1.74       0.00
ID-PE-3968    IBRD38876    1995                                       BOOK S READING DEV             130.40        0.00            0.00        115.66       -1.74       0.00
ID-PE-3972    IBRD38866    1995   GOI AG. RESEARCH II                                                 61.00        0.00            0.00         55.30       20.79       0.00
ID-PE-39754   IBRD39136    1995                                      TA FOR INFRA. II                 28.00        0.00            0.00         25.69       14.49       0.00
ID-PE-3979    IBR03945A    1995   GO!                                RURAL ELECT II                  252.09        0.00            0.00        244.48      155.37       0.00
ID-PE-3984    IBRD3792A    1995   GOI                                 LAND ADMINISTRATION             56.45        0.00            0.00         53.76       12.10       0.00
ID-PE-3988    IBRD3825A    1995   GOI                                 PHRD II                         40.57        0.00            0.00         539.84       5.82       0.00
ID-PE-4001    IBRD39046    1995   GOI                                TELECOM SECTOR MODER            325.00        0.00            0.00        306.79       96.80       0.00
ID-PE-4019    IBRD3801A    1995   GOI                                ACCOUNTAMCCY DEV II              18.64        0.00            0.00         18.52       13.50       0.00
ID-PE-3860    IBRD3464A    1994   GOI                                TREECROPS SMALLHOLDER            27.12        0.00            0.00         27.12       18.05       0.00
IEV.
ID-PE-3890    IBRD3749A    1994   GOI                                SEMARANG-SURAKARTA U            110.67        0.00            0.00        105.26       34.96       0.00
ID-PE-3910    IBRD3761A   1994   GOI                                 SUMATERA & KALIMAN P            216.28        0.00            0.00        215.33       98.83       0.00
ID-PE-3937    IBRD3755A   1994   GOI                                  INTEGRATED SWAMPS               38.42        0.00            0.00         36.73        8.13       0.00



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 41                                                   Northern Sumatra Region Road Project
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                         disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit       Year               Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                              IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig   Frm Rev'd
ID-PE-3945    IBRD3712A   1994   GOI                                  HIGHWAY SECTOR 11              196.44        0.00            0.00        191.83      111.82       0.00
ID-PE-3952    IBRD3721A    1994   GOI                                 SKILLS DEVELOPMENT              10.24        0.00            0.00          8.83       13.74       0.00
ID-PE-3954    IBRD3762A   1994   GOI                                  JAVA IRR IMP & W R M           108.27        0.00            0.00        102.99       33.97       0.00
ID-PE-3985    IBRD3658A    1994   GOI                                 WTRSHED CONSERVATION &          44.22        0.00            0.00         43.80       14.68       0.00
MGMT
ID-PE-3998    IBRD3726A    1994   GOI                                 SURABAYA URaAN                 113.14        0.00            0.00        111.86       45.57       0.00
ID-PE-4010    IBRD3742A    1994   GOI                                 DAM SAFETY                      38.25        0.00            0.00         37.46       19.90       0.00
ID-PE-4017    IBRD3754A    1994   GO!                                 UNIV.RESEARCH FOR GR            33.12        0.00            0.00         32.55        8.18       0.00
ID-PE-4020    IBRD3732A    1994   GOI                                 KABUPATEN ROADS V               25.59        0.00            0.00         23.18        3.18       0.00
ID-PE-3914    IBRD3550A    1993   GOI                                 THIRD COMM HEALTH &             30.74        0.00            0.00         30.74        7.97       0.00
ID-PE-3990    IBRD3629A    1993   GOI                                 WTR & SANI FOR LOW I            43.23        0.00            0.00         42.24       30.25      11.05
ID-PE-3999    IBRD3588A    1993   GOI                                 GROUNDWATER DEVT.               11.91        0.00            0.00         11.44        9.98       -.87
ID-PE-4006    IBRD3579A    1993   GOI                                 E.INDONES}A KABUPATE            21.20        0.00            0.00         17.88       17.85       0.00
ID-PE-4007    IBRD3602A    1993   GOI                                 POWER (CIRATA II)               61.44        0.00            0.00         61.14       54.16       0.00
ID-PE-4009    IBRD3586A    1993   GOI                                 INTEGRATED PEST MGMT            13.28        0.00            0.00         12.37        9.36       0.00
ID-PE-3916    IBRD3501A    1992                                       SURALAYA THERMAL POWER          88.17        0.00            0.00         78.72      130.12      41.52
ID-PE-3928    IBRD3402A    1992   GO                                 AGRICULTURAL FINANCING          39.06        0.00            0.00         38.98       38.99       0.00
ID-PE-3940    IBRD3448A    1992   GOI                                 PRIMARY SDUC QUALITY            13.40        0.00            0.00         13.40       12.80       0.00
IMPROVE
ID-PE-3966    IBRD3431A    1992   GOI                                 NON-FORMAL EDUC III              5.94        0.00            0.00          5.26        5.26       0.00
ID-PE-3969    IBRD3496A    1992   G01                                 PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACH             8.47        0.00            0.00          8.47        8.47       0.00
ID-PE-3997    IBRD3482A    1992   GOI                                 TELECOM IV                     148.13        0.00            0.00        144.48       94.46       0.00
ID-PE-4012    IBRD3454A    1992   GOI                                 BAPEDAL DEV PROJ                   .30       0.00            0.00           .30          .32      0.00
ID-PE-3977    IBRD3246A    1991   GOl                                 THIRD JABOTABEK URB             13.41        0.00            0.00         12.62       12.62       0.00
ID-PE-3981    IBRD3302A   1991                                        PROV IRR AGRIC DEVT             10.77        0.00            0.00         10.47       31.97      10.36
ID-PE-3960    IBRD3209A    1990                                       GAS UTILIZATION                 24.15        0.00            0.00         20.25       20.28      10.78
ID-PE-41894   IBRD4095A   1987   GO0                                  SUMATRA SEC EDUC                94.65        0.00            0.00         94.65        1.65       0.00
ID-PE-36956   IBRD42070      98    GOI                                SAFE MOTHERHOOD                 42.50        0.00            0.00         41.15       -1.35       0.00
Total                                                                                              4,560.52        0.00            0.00      4,368.66   1,564.14       78.20
Active Loans         Closed Loans           Total
Total Disbursed tIBRD and IDA):                 191.90           18,321.89          18,513.79
of which has been repaid:                  0.00            7,492.13            7,492.13
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               4,560.52           10,887.73          15,448.25
Amount sold                      :                0.00               88.08               88.08
Of which repaid              :                 0.00              88.08               88.08
Total Undisbursed                :            4,368.66               58.05           4,426.71
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary trorm 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a
letter based system will be used tHS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in
Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology tSecM94-901), August.23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Project Appraisal Document                                         Page 42                                 Northem Sumatra Region Road Project
Annex 12: Country at a Glance
Indonesia at a glance                                                               B1197
Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               East  middle-
ndonesba       Asia  income,      Development diamond
Population mid-1996 (millions)                        196.1     1,726    1.125
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                             1,090       890    1,750                 Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                               213.7     1,542    1,967
Average annual growth, 19SS-96
Population (X)                                          1.6       1.3       1.4     GNP                                Gross
Laborforce()                                            2.5       1.3       1.8     pir                               primary
Most reent estimate (latestyearavailable since 1989)                                capita         .y              enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of,population)              I1         ..        ..
Urban population (% of total populaton)                 36         31       56
Life expectancy at blh (years)                          64         68       67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live birhs)                 51         40       41               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              11 
Access to safe water (% of population)                  63         49       78
llrieracy(%otpopoulationage 15+)                        16         17
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  115        117      104    1          Indonesia
Male                                                 117        120      105                 Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               113        116      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995     1996
Economic ratios'
GOP (billions US$)                           32.1      87.2     208.6    230.8
Gross domestie investment/GOP                23.7      26.1      32.4     32.7              Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP            23.2     22.2       26.4     26.2              O
Gross domestic savings/GOP                   25.9      27.8      33.5     34.0
Gross national savings/GOP                   23.4      22.8      28.2     28.4                        T
Current account balancelGOP                   -3.4     -2.2      -3.4     -3.5
Interest payments/GDP                          1.0      2.3       2.4       2.3     Savings                      I Investment
Total debt/GOP                               35.8      42.1      51.7     46.9
Total debt service/exports                    15.1     28.8      29.9     33.0
Present value of debtGDP                        ..       ..      51.0
Present value of debt/exports                   ..       ..    187.7                             Indebtedness
17S546  1986-96      1996      1996  199745      .
(average annual growth)                                                                   - -Indonesia
GOP                                  7.0       7.9      8.2       7.8      7.7    i
GNP per capita                       4.3      6.1       5.8       6.3       6.4           - Lower-mddle-income grup
Exports of goods and services        -1.0     9.3       8.6       6.3      9.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1995      1996
(% of GDP)                                                                        tGrowth rates of output and Investment (%I
Agriculture                                   30.2     23.2      17.2      16.3     20 T
Industry                                     33.5     35.9       41.5     42.7   . "
Manufacturing                                9.8     16.0      24.2      25.2
Services                                     36.3     40.9       41.4     41.0       s
Private consumption                          65.1     60.4       58.6     58.3              91   92   93   94   55   9S
General govemment consumption                 9.0      11.8       7.9      7.7                    GOt   -O-GOP
Imports of goods and services                21.0     20.5       25.2     24.9
197545  1986-96       1995     1996
(average annual growth)                                                             Growth rates of exports and Imports 1%
Agricutture                                   4.2       3.4       4.2       1.9     30
Industry                                      7.0      9.9       10.4     10.4
Manufacturing                               14.5     11.2       10.8     11.0     20
Services                                      9.0      8.1        7.7      7.4
10
Private consumption                           9.8      6.9        9.7      9.2
General govemment consumption                10.5      4.8        1.3      3.8      o -
Gross domestic investment                    12.1     10.7       13.0      9.1             91   92   93   94   95   93
Importsofgoodsandservices                     8.8      9.4       15.8      9.6                   Exports  ---imports
Gross national product                        6.5      7.9        7.4      7.5
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specitied.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond vwill
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Document                                          Page 43                                 Northern Sumatra Region Road Project
Indonesia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995      1996    !
Domestic prices                                                                      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                     !                                      o
Consumer prices                               19.1       4.7       9.4       8.0
Implicit GOP deflator                         11.2       4.3       9.4       7.5    I
Govemment finance
(% of GDP)                                                                            0
Current revenue                                         19.2      14.7      15.4    i        91    92    93   94   95   96
Current budget balance                          ,,       6.0       5.4       6.1                DGDP def  C-O-CPI
Overall surplusideficit                                 -32        0.8       0.9
TRADE
1975     1985       1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                        Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                             .,  18,823    47,754   52,192    1 ro,ooo 7
Fuel                                                12,804     10,616   12,594    |
Rubber                                                714       2,330    2,388    !
Manufactures                                         2,287    29.054   31,617       4 0
Total imports (cif)                             .. 14,056    46,039   50,815 
Foods                                                  812      3.397    3,852     20|000
Fuel and energy                                ..    2,870      3,563    4,414
Capaitlgoods                                   ..    5,394     18,957   21,135
Export price index (1987=100)                    ,      121        137                      go  91  92  93  94  9S  96
Import price index (1987=100)                   ..       85        127
Termsoftrade(1987=100)                           ..     143        108         .Exports   axImports
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995      1996
(millions USS)                                                                       Current account balance to GOP ratio
Exports of goods and services                6,981   19,371     52,938   58,017      0
Imports of goods and services                6,775   17,840    51,589   57,050           go i  91   92   93   94   9S   9E
Resource balance                               207    1,531      1,349      968                           9    9    9    9,
Net income                                  -1.342   -3,542     -7,832   -8,766
Net current transfers                           27       88       -504      -256
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers          -1,108   -1,923     -6,987   -8,054
Financing items (net)                          257      962      9,638   11,927
Changes in net reserves                        851      961      -2,651   -3,873     -4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill USS)             592   13,184     16,000   19,873
Conversion rate (locaL/US$)                  415.0  1,110.6   2,255.0  2,362.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995      19S6                 1
(millions USS)                                                                     , Compositlon of total debt, 1995 (mill USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        11,498   36,715   107,831  108,300
IBRD                                          57    3,590     12,503   11,138    j                      1250
IDA                                          318      844        756      736              G            2
5,823                    ~~~~~~22350              7568
Total debt service                           1,060    5,823     16,419   18,672
IBRD                                           2      384      1,875    2,249                                ,
IDA                                            2       12        26        26                                      6750
Composition of net resource flows                                                  ,          .
Official grants                               69      136        249
Official creditors                           515      980      1,101                               E
Private creditors                          1,749      154      2,428                                               31221
Foreign directinvestment                    476       310      4,348             j       F    ' 
Portfolio pouity                               0        0      4,873                    34251
World Bank program
Commdments                                   311    1,068      1,312    1,194      A-18RD                       E-Bilateral
Disbursements                                164      777      1,045      905      8 - IDA    D- Other mulIlateral  F- Pivate
Prindpal repayments                            0      133       975    1,429       C - IMF                      G - Short-temm
Net flows                                    164      644        69      -523
Interest payments                              3      262       926       846
Net transfers                                160      382       -857   -1,370
Development Economics. 1996 extemal debt and resource flows data are staff estimates (preliminary).                    8115/97
Note: Govemment finance and trade fiscal year (April to March)



MAP SECTION



95,                                                  10017                                                 105
':1 j. THAt LAD N05D                                                                                                   INDONESIA
te   A>-q\ X r-NORTHERN SUMATERA REGION
,%Banda Aceh                                                                                                                                                       RI¶AJML               L  IIDJEC
PARTICIPATING PROVINCES AND KABUPATENS
2                              05.                                                                                                                           PROJECT PROVINCES
-         K~~~fE
' 5 4,              ,-MA (                          A    Y3SI A                                                                             ®      PROVINCE (PROPINSI) CAPITALS
N+\    ),_ -       ,st                                                                                                          N h   * >  <   d  ,  6     NATIONAL CAPITAL
7 1     al dtn               .,                                 K                                                                  -     .-   DISTRICT (KABUPATEN) BOUNDARIES
D.I. ACEH           ,,,             e10 `1W-   - --   PROVINCE (PROPINSI) BOUNDARIES
7 7 /   j                                                       ;                                                        ---  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
°                , ;wK> 4  4                                      K'"h<<>tik  > \----<f)  <'  \0                                  PROJECT KABUPATENS
, 3  \  'T'                                                                                                               SUMATERA  BARAT:              RIAU:
~~~~~.>    \\  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~1. Pesisir Selatan                                                                  1 . lndrogiri Hulu
SU yAT      2 ,,~ u .,  <                P         O          R       APORE                        ,Sawo [unto                                      3 Kepulouan Riau
'5L?i~A Es-                                                                               ~4. Tanak Dator                                                      4. Kampor
UTARA   \\,  .'   --- a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                   5. Podang Parioman            5. Bengkolis
3I        4                                                                                      6. Again
ro 2o-,> s..                   ,  2                                 '                     0           7. Lima Puluh Kota            SUMATERA  UTARA:
~~,,"W4-k         18. Pasaman                                                                                                1 .Nias
*            '*~~'  ~      I.,.'                                                                                                           2. Tapanuli Selaton
_ ,SUMATED..    7                                         "I. ACEH:                                                                         3. Topanuli Tengah
..~~~~SUMATE  ~~~~~~~'     .. ...... ~~~~~~~~1. Aceh Selotan4.Tpni
7" BARAT    )Pa'ang  8,           t JAMBI              )                                                     2. Aceh Tenggora             5. Labulon Batu
.BARAT  <~Po'dang ,~   K JAMBI(R(Jam,                                                            3. Aceh Timur                 6 .Asahan
'5..           0\8 '5            -' Ie .     ,ir-_,-5gJ0Is,                                                 4. Aceh Tengah                7. Simaolngun
'F.        >    (7                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~        ~        ~~5. Aceh Borot  8. Dairi
u   0   '_*.   .   'Y . .-- i,< ); ~' ' -                                            o6. Aceh Besor                 9. Karo
-\,U,         \             ^ \ (,          r           J . , ,) 7. Pidie  10. Deli Serdang
/5  f                                                             C                       8s <\   1t  8zo  1AMPIPUNG  r  so  X  AcesH Utaro  1 1 . Longkat
00 0 LS  ERA                                                     9. Simeulue
K  >~~~~~~~  I ~~~Bengkulu                           &        EtAt~4
'   2 - <'K-r -               7   '/
BENGKVLLJ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~MYANMAR/5~~>                                                   AA.OT                  CA
7his map wosproduced~~~~~~~~~BytENGpdesigUno th oLdkJAO,)A f                                                                                             'l :  A 0t, < JPORT.   v  
I                                  '~~~~~~~~H I' -AITETNA
hd) C  l Ay so                                                                                                                                      AB '-\-AD
~.   KB~e~iarLampung                               G  laM~eA
0 100  200  300  400  500 KILOMETERS                                                             Q    <C.    .                                          A \SIPLC
Thi map e's pwrdvced by the Map Desig, unit of Thu world Bank.                                                               J AVV                 >W2~P
The I,oundaries, colors, denominations cand anyaotbur in formation shownI   rtN
on thIs map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Groop, any                                                      7.2         "                   Ar  t heri   I   ls IN r'I
c        judgmentonthelegalstatusofanyterritory,oranyendorsementor                                                                                          LJP _                  --O7CriArop  4L'                 'N t
>        acceptance of snc, boundaries. -,                                                                                                        -         INDIAN   OCEAN                  >'   ArsfroSs
a 100,                                                                                                    105                                        _ 



