Report No. PIC4094
Project Name             Indonesia-Northern Sumatra Regional Roads Project (@)
Region                           East Asia & Pacific
Sector                           Transport/Highways
Project ID                       IDPE3993
Borrower                         Republic of Indonesia
Executing Agency                 Directorate General of Highways (Bina Marga)
Jl. Pattimura 20, Jakarta, Indonesia
Phone: 62 21 720-3165
Fax: 62 21 722-1950
Date of Initial PID              June 1996
Date of this PID                 July 16, 1997
Projected appraisal date         July 10, 1997
Projected Board date             November 4, 1997
1.      Country and Sector Background. Road transport is by far the
dominant mode, accounting for more than 90t of land transport. Over
the past decade, the transport sector, and the road sector in
particular, have grown at about 7T p.a. or slightly faster than the
economy in general, and have been able to meet the transport
requirements generated by a rapidly growing economy. However, rapid
growth in demand for transport is expected to continue in step with
the strong growth of the economy, and spare capacity is no longer
available on the existing networks. The Government of Indonesia
(GOI) is, therefore, faced with two major challenges. First, in the
industrializing areas, there will be a need to create new capacity
on critical parts of the network within a relatively short period
(5-10 years). Second, in the outlying regions which have not
experienced the rapid growth mentioned above, there will be a need
to ensure that the limited total funds available to support
regional development are used as effectively as possible.
2.      The key sector issues to be addressed by the project are
three. First, the daunting task of meeting the traffic demand
growth challenge is impeded by the current approach of sector
agencies to planning and implementing road development and
expansion, which is piecemeal and lacks a rational framework. There
is a need for an improved approach including: (a) preparation of
integrated road plans; (b) extension of the economic basis for
allocating and prioritizing expenditures; and (c) enhanced
institutional coordination between stakeholders to achieve
effective integration of all aspects of road development. Second,
at the same time, there is a need to consolidate sound road
management, including environmental and social aspects at all
levels of government, as well as sound maintenance practices
especially at the level of the district (kabupaten) road network.
Third, substantive regional differences exist in the level and
composition of road networks, as well as their relation to economic



development. Making the road networks functionally effective to
serve local, provincial and regional needs requires a region-
specific focus, as an alternative to the current network-specific,
centrally managed approach.
3.      Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector.
Lessons learned as reported in the PCR (1994) for the Second Rural
Roads Project (Ln. 2881-IND) include: (a) project objectives should
not be too ambitious; (b) in the medium term for this type of
operation, project design should provide intensive technical
assistance for monitoring at the central level and for
implementation at the regional level; (c) in the longer term,
sustainability is affected by the quality of the training programs
and by the adequacy of the incentives the central government uses
in its budget system to ensure that lower levels of government use
resources effectively; and (d) there is an effective value in a
balanced lending program combining a more complex project with a
series of simpler follow-up projects.
4.      Lessons learned from the first Highway Sector Project (Ln.
3113-IND) ICR of January 1996 include: (a) the 1989 policy
statement provided a strong foundation for projects in the sector,
and subsequent projects need only have an action plan to provide
discrete and separable measures and shorter term benchmarks under
the policy umbrella; (b) the changes in organizational structure
introduced in 1989 may require a longer term framework and extended
consultation; and (c) investing in technical assistance and
training for institutional capacity building purposes can yield
high returns in terms of development effectiveness under the right
conditions. Delays in implementing the TA/training components may
result in the improved work force not being available at the start
of the project, thereby limiting their contribution to the
project's objectives.
These lessons have been incorporated in the project design. Focus
is on a small number of specific processes which have a major
impact on strategic goals. Also, drawing in GOI agencies around a
given process rather than around functions provides an objective
basis for cross-functional communications and effective working teams.
5.      Project Objectives. The project aims at improving transport
efficiency and access within the four provinces of the Northern
Sumatra region and adjacent regions, as a contribution to GOI's
efforts towards efficient and equitable regional development.
Contributing to this overarching objective, the project's outputs
will be: (a) the integration and strengthening of planning and
management of transport infrastructure in the region with GOI's
decentralized framework at a sustainable level; (b) acceleration of
the development and preservation of the road network in the project
area, at environmentally sustainable and economically efficient
levels; and (c) the improvement of resource uses and service
delivery through gains in policy implementation and technical efficiency.
6.      Project Description. The project has three main components:
(a) a planning component (i) to support Bappenas in transport
- 2 -



planning and management; (ii) to develop strategic transport
planning in the project area; and (iii) to improve annual planning
and programming in the project area; (b) a network preservation and
development component; and (c) project policy and management
component (i) to enhance quality and technical efficiency; and (ii)
to support implementation of the road traffic and transport policy.
7.      Project Financing. The total project cost is estimated at
US$418.8 million. GOI will finance US$211.6 million and the Bank
will finance US$207.2 million. The terms of the loan have not yet
been established. No on-lending or cofinancing is foreseen.
8.      Project Implementation. The project will be implemented over
a five-year period starting in GOI's FY97/98. The Directorate
General of Highways (Bina Marga) will be the implementing agency
for general planning in the road sector. The BAPPEDAs will be
responsible for the development of regional planning activities in
the project area. The provincial public works departments will be
responsible for planning and implementing the national and
provincial road civil works program. The kabupaten public works
departments will be responsible for planning and implementing the
kabupaten road civil works program. The Directorate General of Land
Transportation of the Ministry of Communications is responsible for
developing a regional transport network strategy and road
traffic/transport policy implementation. A project management unit
(PMU) will be established in Bina Marga and located in Medan to
coordinate activities. BAPPENAS, the national development planning
agency, will oversee the planning and implementation of road sector
programs and provide relevant guidance.
9.      Sustainability. Sustainability is enhanced by the general
thrust for decentralization which would increase the chances for
genuine local ownership of the project. Three key features are
noteworthy: (a) the active involvement of the Transport Planning
Committees in the strategic planning exercises would ensure that
institutional achievements would outlive the technical assistance
period; (b) on the technical side, establishment of a preparatory
pipeline approach to network development as a standard component of
an improved road planning system; (c) (a) and (b) above would, in
turn, allow for the achievement of quality and design life targets,
thus enhancing the sustainability of the economic benefits.
10.     Program Objective Categories/Poverty Category. The objective
of this project is environmentally sustainable development. It is
not in the program of targeted interventions.
11.     Environmental Aspects. This project is rated "A" because it
involves road development activities which could lead to
significant environmental impacts essentially where new roads
penetrate sensitive areas. A sectoral environmental assessment was
conducted. It confirmed that GOI's environmental regulations are
sound, but issues arise in the planning and handling of the AMDAL
(environmental assessment) process. The project will provide for
(a) general support for environmental management; (b) the
establishment of an environmental oversight committee in each
- 3 -



province to coordinate the regional implementation of the AMDAL;
(c) a focus on strategic development needs, long term planning and
advance project preparation; and (d) increased Bank supervision
resources to support GOI's efforts.
12.     Benefits. The benefits expected from this project include:
(a) lower freight and passenger transportation costs with resulting
benefits in fares, the price of goods, marketing of products, and
the reduction of transport bottlenecks affecting economic
development; (b) improved physical environmental along project
roads and improved attention to environmental and social impacts of
road works; and (c) more effective management and sustainable
maintenance of each jurisdiction's road assets, including better
utilization of existing traffic capacity, improved value-for-money
of public spending on roads, and better connectivity of villages to
provincial and national networks.
13.     Risks. Project risks are rated medium. Risks to the project
objectives include (a) the sustainability of commitment from GOI
agencies outside project management; (b) other projects in the
transport sector may not contribute as expected to the overall
performance of the sector; and (c) the road transport industry may
not have sufficient incentive to perform efficiently. Risks to the
components include: (a) late or inadequate availability of
counterpart funding and staffing; (b) procurement delays; (c)
inadequate management capacity at all levels; (d) competition may
not be maintained in the road construction industry; (e)
enforcement of road transport policies may be weak; (f) available
Bank resources for supervision may not be sufficient.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending July 18, 1997.
- 4 -



