0217221039  DIR BINR PROGRRM                                   394 P02      JUL 04  "JY  1: n(
DEPARTEMEN  PEKERJAAN  UMUM
DIREKTORAT JENDERAL BINA MARGA
jalan Pattimuira No. 20 Telp. 72219s5-7203165-7222806 Fax. 7393938 Kode Pos. 12110 Keb. Baru - Jakarta
No.      TxL.o;L  |  4vf20 l97
LEncl.                                              JJakarta, uly           1 1997         \'
Mr. Jeffrey S. Gutman
Manager, Transport Sector Unit
East Asia Pacific Region
Word Bank
Washington, DC 20433
Dear Sir.
Rc        Proposed Northern Sumatera Reeional Road Project (NSRRP) Environmental
Imnact and Social Assessment
Further to your requirements for preparation of the NSRRP, we hereby submit the Executive Summary
of the Environmental Impact Assessment (ElIA) and Sosial Impact Assesment ( SIA ) for the proposed
Northern Sumatra Regional Road Project. This is a summary of the fufll report which was previously
presented to your offlces in December 1996 and includes details of public consultations already
comnpleted and plans for future consulttiont.
Public Consultation Meetings have now been made to NGCOs and local Universitics in the four
provinces as part of two workshops on the NSRRP project wcre held in Pakanbaru, Riau and Medan
Nortb Sumatra Full details of the consultations meeting held this weck will be forwarded next week.
lhese were considerd to be necessary to ensure that local goverwnent agencies and NGO/ Un iversitics
were adequatly informed about the project, prior to further public consultation .
We would also like to confirm that the attached EIA/SIA Executive Suummary, a translation of the
summary in Indonesia and full EIA/SIA reports are to be publicly displayed in the four provincial
cities and in Jakarta tho next week. Further Public Consultation mectings are to be held in each
province at the launching of the Project.
We trust that these arrangements will allow the Banrk to proceed with appraisal of thc project.
Yours faithfully,
Director of Planning
Gandhi Harahap
C.C.
1. Messrs. S. Guggenheim, W.Hardi, World Bank Jakarta
2.  File






Northern Sumatra Regional Roads Project
Executive Summary
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL
IMPACT ASSESSMENT
July 1 997






Contents
1. INTRODUCTION .............................................................1
2. PROJECT DESCRIPTION .............................................................2
2.1. Project Background .............................................................2
2.2. Project Objectives ... .3...........3
2.3. Project Scope ...........4... .4
2.4. Project Schedule                                 ................                                          .4
2.5. Implementing Agencies .....................4
3. BASELINE DATA  ..............                               .......                                                                     5
3.1. Topography .....................5
3.2. Land  Use ........             :.5
3.3. Climate ........6
3.4. Population  and settlement .............................................................6
3.5. Hazards .............................................................6
3.6.- Biodiversity .............................................................6
3.7. Existing  road  network ............................................................7
4. IMPACTS .............................................................7
4.1. General Impacts of Road Projects .............................................................7
4.2. New  construction  projects .............................................................7
4.3. Capacity  expansion  projects .............................................................8
4.4. Urban roads: new  construction  or major widening .........................................................8
4.5. Project-specific Impacts of Road  Development .............................................................8
4.6. Isolated Communities ............................................................9
5. PROJECT DEFINITION, SCREENING, MITIGATION AND  MONITORING ............9
5.1. Project Planning and  Design ............................................................9
5.2. Project Construction ............................................................                                                10
5.3. Post-Project Managemenit ............................................................ 10
5.4. Project Screening  Procedures ............................................................                                       10
A. Projects having No Significant Environmental Impacts                                        .           .11.............................. 1
B. Projects having Significant Environmental Impacts                                      ..i................................. 11
i. Significant Impacts not requiring fullANDAL ............................................................ 11
ii.  Significant Impacts requiring  full ANDAL ............................................................                        I 1
5.5. Preliminary  Screening of Candidate Sub-Projects ........................................................ 13
6. INSTITUTIONAL NEEDS ............                                    ................................................. 13
6.1. Technical Assistance For Social and Environmental Issues ......................................... 13
i.  Technical Assistance for Feasibility  Studies ............................................................   13
ii. Technical Assistance for Strategic Planning                                  ....................................... 13
6.2. Environmental Oversight Committee/ Komisi Daerah ................................................. 14
7. PUBLIC PARTICIPATION ............................................................. 14
7.1. Community Consultation  Requirements ............................................................                                 14
7.2. Community Consultation Already Conducted in NSRRP Preparation ......................... 14
7.2.2. Central Workshop ............................................................                                              14
7.2.2. Provincial Workshops ............................................................. 15
7.2.3. Consultation Response by NGO/Universities on Environmental issues    ..  15
7.2.4.EIA/SIA  Public Disclosure and Further Consultations .                                        .......................................... 15






1. INTRODUCTION
The Northern Sumatra Regional Roads Project (NSRRP) will be undertaken by the Government
of Indonesia (GOI) with the assistance of a World Bank Loan. The NSRRP is classified as a
category 'A'--project undef the .World Bank's Operational. Directive 4.01, thus requiring full
environmental and social imipact assessment.
There are a number of general Indonesian regulations relating to environmental management, the
most important being the Environmental Management Act No. 4 of 1982, called the 'Basic
Provision for the Management of the Living Environment'. This act specifies responsible
institutions to carry out the broad mandate of sustainable environmental management, including
the Ministry of Public Works. The AMDAL (environmental impact assessment) legislation is
Government Regulation (PP) No. 51 of 1993. The Regulation aims at controlling and mitigating
environmental impacts arising from any development activities.
-PP 51 requires that the AMDAL process, including all ecological, socio-economic, and cultural
components shall form part of the feasibility study for a proposed activity. In the highways
sector, full environmental/social impact studies (EIA/SIA, or ANDAL, RKL, RPL) are required
for new construction of, inter alia, interurban roads greater than 25 km in length, urban roads
greater than 5 km, and betterment outside of the right-of-way for urban and metropolitan roads
greater than 5 km. General guidelines for the compilation of AMDAL studies are contained in
KEP- 14IMENLH/311994. KEPMEN PU No. 58/KPTS/1995 provides move detailed guidance for
public works projects. For smaller road projects, other than simple betterment, a preliminary
screening is required to determine the potential impacts and the depth of EIA/SIA that will be
required.
Where the planned road will have negligible negative impacts, standard environmental
management and monitoring procedures (UKL and UPL) are applicable as directed by KEP-
12/MENLH1/3/1994 and KEPMEN PU No. 296/KPTS/1996 and No. 377/KPTS/1996. However,
for any road that traverses a sensitive area, an environmental field study is required, which will
determine whether the predicted impacts are sufficient to warrant full ANDAL, RKL and RPL, or
whether they are sufficiently minor to be handled through project-specific UKL and UPL. The
list of terrain types classified as sensitive is comprehensive.
KEP-39/MENLH/8/1996 lists the development activities that require AMDAL studies which in
the highways sector include:
* new construction of toll roads;
* fly-overs;
* interurban roads greater than 25 km in length;
*  urban roads greater than 5 km;
* betterment outside the right-of-way (DAMIJA) for urban and metropolitan roads
greater thian 5 km in lengtlh; and
* all projects with significant impacts on protected areas.
The AMDAL screening process in Bina Marga lists 20 categories of sensitive areas which can be
seen on Diagram I (section 5) which shows the current Screening procedures for road projects.
KEPMEN PU No. 481/KPTS/1996 provides the criteria for determining which of those a public
works projects that do not require ANDAL do require UKL and UPL.
For capacity expansion projects with widening, the social impacts of land acquisition and
resettlement have paramount importance. KEPPRES-55/1993 indicated framework of Land
Aquisition for public interest requires that those whose lands are acquired for the public interest
be compensated. This regulation complies with the World Bank's Operational Directive 4.30,
which is expected to be replaced by a similar OP 4.12 in the near future. It requires community
I



consultation .and consensus agreement on 'fair' compensation. Rates of compensation accord
with the formal tenure rights (e.g. rights of ownership and rights of use), but unfortunately rates
for land held through customary (adat) tenure are not stipulated. This is of critical importance
because probably most smallholdings outside urban areas in Sumatra are based on adat.
There is no provision for the registration of the rights of vulnerable communities (whether
indigenous or merely isol4ted) who risk being disadvantaged by new road development, and it
will prove difficult to provide them with any form of security of tenure. Act No. 10/1992 on
population policy, which plermits development of indigenous areas according to adat, does not
guarantee continuation of inherited land rights. The NSRRP will address the deficiencies in
compensation and land rights mentioned above by issuing Governor decrees in the project area
which define a 'framework" which sets forth the principles and procedures to be followed in any
land acquisition and resettlement that might be required from project related activities.
Guidelines for the deterrmination of significant impacts are contained in BAPEDAL Decree
056/3/1994. In summary, these relate to criteria of number of people affected, areal extent of
impact, duration of impact, intensity of impact, number of other components affected by impact,
cumulative nature of impact, anrd reversibility/irreversibility of impact.
2. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.1. Project Background
The Northern Sumatra Regional Roads Project (NSRRP) has an estimated cost of US$400
million including an IBRD loan of $400 to be disbursed over three years from 1998/9 to
2000/01. It is to cover the northern half of the island of Sumatra (see map 1.1), which is divided
administratively into four provinces, 32 districts (kabupatens) and 16 cities (kotamadya). The
project is to support improvements in national, provincial and kabupaten road networks across
the region with an emphasis on strategic links and network development, and within a general
framework of assistance to improve and integrate planning procedures for all road networks in
the region.
Up to now Indonesia's road expenditures and planning systems have concentrated mainly on
'preservation' works for rehabilitation and maintenance of the existing network while the
Regional Road Projects will focus on the planning and development of the road network in
relation to all transport networks. Special attention will be given to spatial planning of the region
taking into account environmental and social issues. Planning for capacity expansion (widening,
dualling, bypasses, etc.) in areas withi well developed and heavily used networks, and network
extension (new roads) in areas with less developed networks and economic potential, is
considerably more complex and involves greater social and environmental impacts than those of
preservation works, and achievement of an appropriate economic balance in expenditures
requires a more integrated view of regional development needs, strategies and options. Planning
and implementation of road network development also has to consider how best to meet the
Government's policy objective to promote decentralisation of its functions. For this reason, a
Regional Roads Transport Priority Analysis (RRTPA) was conducted during preparation.
It has been concluded that World Bank assistance to the road sector could now best support these
policy objectives through an integrated region-specific approach as an alternative to the previous
approach which has tended to concentrate on individual road links under separate sectoral
transport programmes. GOI has selected Northern Sumatra as a suitable region for a pilot RRP,
combining a balance of both network extension and network capacity needs in addition to the
predominant need for preservation works.
2



Figure 1.1. Map showing the location of the Project Area.
Ac                                      g~
' Banda Aceh
. PenangI
2.2. Project ObjectivesIp. Nahma
theprojectregio w   d-SUMATRA  to er       nl adsia c d i
improvingtranso accesswithin the project ren ad to suundgapore g
!ia X.     \      c ,           X       ^     Bintan3
I G ^ 1 i9P~~~~~~ekanbruX
rK   o' RIAU                  ,o
Oi /    iWEST                   >i        t
o8tPadang-      Rii|~~-~~ 
Siber'ut \   ||||ltj
.            n |   w~~~~~~~dar Lampung
2.2. Project Objectives
The proposed Project has thiree main general objectives:
*to apply a strategic approach to the development and preservation of the transport network in
the project region with due regard to environmental and social considerations;
*to assist GOI's efforts to achieve efficient and equitable regional development, aiming at
improving transport access within the project region and to surrounding regions;



* to assist GOI to reduce the cost of the sector development programme by improvements in the
allocation and use of resources.
The new regional approach adopted under NSRRP is considered important in that it addresses
decentralisation objectives, by increasing the chances of genuine local 'ownership' of the project
and its objectives by the project's 'stakeholders', a deficiency which has undermined the
achievements of some previous projects.
2.3. Project Scope
To achieve the above objectives, the Project will consist of the following four main components:
1. Technical assistance for strategic planning, studies, planning support and improved
programming;
2. Improved resource use through technical assistance for design and implementation.
3. Network preservation including betterment and maintenance;
4. Network development including major widening, road upgrading and new construction;
The first two components and the planning aspects of the civil works program, will be part of an
Institutional Strengthening activity of the Technical Assistant Consultants (TAC). This will
include the application of Government Regulations and procedures concerned with environment
and social issues. The last two components will be part of the civil works component which is
required to demonstrate the benefits of the 'Regional Approach' and planning and programming
procedures. Sub-projects to be candidates for assistance under the civil works components (3)
and (4) have been selected as far as possible in line with strategic planning objectives and
improved resource allocation strategies, defined in outline in the RRTPA report, and to be
developed for all regional road networks through technical assistance for planning comprising
component (1). Improved resource use under component (2) is to be achieved mainly through
provision of technical assistance for design and implementation.
2.4. Project Schledule.
The capacity expansion and network extension projects are phased in the second and third years
to allow time for full feasibility studies and social and environmental assessment studies to be
carried out prior to their selection as NSRRP sub-projects.
2.5. Implementing Agencies.
The project will be carried out under the overall direction of the Directorate General of
Highways (DGH, or Bina Marga) in the Ministry of Public Works, individual components and
subprojects will be implemented by Bina Marga, the Directorate General or Regional
Development (BANGDA) in Ministry of Home Affairs, and Provincial and District
governments.
4



NUK I H SUMA I teA KtAlUNAL KUAUS FKUJt; I IMFLtMtNl IA I IUN bUHUlzULt_
RRP PROJEC T Component                1998 Yrl       r2  uuYr3   2001 Yr4           L _ _
NP Preservation works                       i          _             =  =  =  = = =
Kabupaten Maintenance Programme             i          i    _                =  = = =
Kabupaten Betterment
NP Capacity Expansion                 -      I          _   _        _  =  =  = = =
NP Network Extension                     - _     - = = = = =
Kab Betterment/Strategic Link Wirks                    _             _  =  = = = =
Strategic Planning
Update, retine, develop outline regional strategy
Develop outline provincial transport strategies
Detine Strategic Network
Uetine 5 yr plans
eeterrmine budget scenanos
Review road network classitication cnteria
Feasibility studies
I A Support to Existing Planning Process
,NP/KAB:Environmental screening
Audit, Monitoring and Evaluation
3. BASELINE DATA.
3.1. Topography
The Project Area has a total land area of some 268,000 sq. km. of which about 29% is
mountainous. The mountains have a distinctive NW-SE strike running from  in Acell, through
North Sumatra to West Sumatra province. Riau is primarily a lowland province, and has
widespread peat swamps. Centrally in the mountains, a fault-bound rift valley runs the length of
the island, but its symmetry is interrupted locally by active volcanoes. The mountains are usually
very steep (mid-slopes in excess of 60%), and this has discouraged settlement. The west coast
plain is narrow but there are extensive coastal lowlands in the east (Riau).
3.2. Land Use
In 1985, 57% of the area still carried a forest cover, but this was mainly in the steeplands and
peat swamps. The remaining lowlands have nearly all been converted to agriculture. Non-forest
land has been broadly divided into intensive and extensive land use systems. The former occupy
18% of total area, and the latter, which include shifting cultivation and secondary growth,
occupy 22%. True shifting cultivation is now practised widely only by the more remote
communities of the interior. Recently there has been a sharp increase in the allocation of large
blocks of land to tree crop plantations in both the estates and forestry sectors and during the last
decade over 9000 sq. km of forest has been cleared from North Sumatra and Riau (10% of the
1985 forest area of these provinces).
Within the Project Area, some 8% of the total area consists of parks and reserves, and 17% as
protection forest. Few areas now remain that are suitable for large-scale new agricultural
development so most agricultural development in the region will consist of intensification in
existing areas of land use, rather than the opening up of new areas. The areas suitable for
agricultural development have been identified in the provincial spatial plans as Recommended
Development Areas (RDA) in RePPProT (Regional Physical Planning Programme for
Transmigration) maps.
5



3.3. Climate
The mountains and the west coast have annual rainfall exceeding 3000 mm, and wide areas
exceed 4000 mm. West-facing slopes behind Padang exceed 5000 mm. Rainfall is heavy at all
seasons and there are no dry months (months having less than 100 mm). By contrast, the eastern
coastal lowlands and some intermontane valleys lie in a rain shadow and annual totals are less
than 2000 mm. Parts of theiNE coast of Aceh and some of the valleys record less than 1500 mm.
A few localities have one qr even two dry months, but the region as a whole is spared the annual
droughts which occur in southern Indonesia. Seasons of maximum rainfall are somewhat ill-
defined, the driest months tend to be December to March, and the wetter months are April and
October-November, but floods often occur on the Aceh west coast in June-July.
3.4. Population and settldment.
The population of the four provinces in 1994 was 22.2 million. Population growth rate varies
from 1.82% in West Sumatra to 3,73% in Riau Province. The differences reflect mainly the
migration patterns relating to land availability.
The traditional zones of settlement are mostly in the fertile rift valleys, young volcanic
footslopes and tuff plateaus of the montane interior.Thus the highest rural population densities
are found in West Sumatra (up to 257/km 2) and North Sumatra (up to 377/km 2). The lowland
province of Riau has the lowest population density (20-58/km2), reflecting its inherent infertility.
However, consequent upon this, it also has the widest availability of land and the highest growth
rate, because of bothl sponsored and spontaneous in-migration. Traditionally, the early
settlements in Riau were almost entirely based upon river valleys, benefiting from river transport
and the more fertile alluvial soils but recently constructed roads, have provided access to the
forests of the inter-riverine areas
Some isolated and vulnerable communities are found very locally in the region, with small
numbers of indigenous peoples in Riau. Most sub-projects will not involve construction through
areas populated by indigenous people and where this might happen their numbers are too small
to present a significant impact in the Northern Sumatra region. The project screening procedures
will ensure that any such projects are fuly assessed for social impact.
3.5. Hazards
Besides volcanoes and earthquakes, the main physical hazards that need to be considered in
engineering design are landslides and flooding. Flooding and landslides are an annual event, and
it is widely accepted that the frequency and severity of floods has increased in recent decades as
a result of deforestation in the watersheds. For this reason alone, the protection of mountain
forests is considered vitally important, and it can be argued that no new roads should be planned
in forested terrain in the mounitains unless it can be guaranteed that the institutional capacitv. and
commitment. is in force to prevent, in perpetuity. any spread of logging or forest clearance along
these roads. Unplanned forest clearance can be difficult to control, and new roads act like a
magnet in attracting unplanned or illegal activities.
The NSRRP will ensure that the appropriate studies are completed to assess the economic,
environmental and social impacts and to recommend appropriate mitigation measures.
3.6. Biodiversity.
The project area has many wild animal species including Orang Utan, Gibbons, Asian Elephant,
Tigers and Sumatran Rhinoceros but mainly in the mountainous regions. Best-known forest
6



plants are the Rafflesia and Amorphophallus. Out of some 600 bird species, there are at least 12
that are endemic to mainland Sumatra, and nearly all of these are montane in distribution. There
is evidence of continuing illegal trade in or hunting of wildlife, and without adequate controls,
which are rarely available, it is inevitable that new roads provide ready access for these
activities.
3.7. Existing road network
It is estimated that some 30,400 km of motorable road exist in the Study Area, including 2,686
km of National roads, 9,513 km of Provincial roads, and 18,204 km of motorable Kabupaten
roads (asphalt roads, and gravel roads in good condition).
Over the Project Area as a whole, there is one kilometre of motorable road for every 73 1 head of
population. The most favourable ratio is in Aceh (1:431 people), and the least in North Sumatra
(1:972 people), the province with the highest density of population. In terms of area, there is on
average one kilometre for every 880 ha. The highest density is in North and West-Sumatra
equally (1:640 ha), and the lowest is in Riau (1:2120 ha), reflecting the most fertile and least
fertile provinces respectively. At kabupaten level, there are some unexpected variations.
Generally, those kabupatens with the highest density of population have the lowest ratios of
roads to people
In terms of ratio of land area to roads, those kabupatens with the lowest intensity of land use,
owing to reasons of mountainous or swampy terrain or low inherent fertility, have the lowest
ratio.
4. IMPACTS
4.1. General Impacts of Road Projects
Routine impacts that are specific to road construction include, inter alia, the following:
*  losses of existing economic and cultural resources. E.g.agricultural or settled areas, building
and traditional cultural areas such as burial sites;
*  environmental degradation. E.g. inappropriate material removal from unplanned quarry sites,
which may result in riverbed or coastal erosion.
*  disruption to communities. E.g. transport of materials resulting in noise and dust,
contamination of drinking water supply, disruption to indigenous communities etc.
*  indirect impacts associated with increased accessibility. E.g. uncontrolled clearance or
harvesting of forest products in conservation areas, protection forest, and sensitive ecological
habitats, hunting and trapping of wildlife etc.;
4.2. New construction projects
New road construction involves opening an area to access, often for the first time. Commonly
some form of access already exists (such as an earth road or footpath) and the induced impacts
resulting from access may have already occurred. However there may be major environmental
and social implications from new construction, and it is anticipated that almost all proposed new
construction on national and provincial roads, and major inter-kabupaten links, will require full
environmental assessment.
7



4.3. Capacity expansion projects
Capacity expansion projects for national and provincial roads are generally located in areas
where any natural environment has already been transformed into one characterized by intensive
land use or settlement, and commonly also rapid economic growth. By far the most significant
environmental impacts in -his situation are predicted to be social, although there may still be
significant negative impacts on the physical environment.
4.4. Urban roads: new construction or major widening
The most significant impacts of urban road development are social and economic, and generally
a relatively large number 6f people and businesses are affected.
4.5. Project-specific Impacts of Road Development
While many of the impacts are routine to any road development, a number are specific to the
Project Area. The impacts that appear most likely based on the preliminary assessment of
possible sub-projects are listed below.
A). Impacts on the physical environment.
Any new road through forested terrain in the hills or mountains is likely to have major negative
impacts, due to:
*  the physical damage of road construction in very steep terrain;
•  increased potential for erosion and landslides;
-  the provision of access for illegal logging or other exploitation of natural resources;
-  the provision of access to spontaneous settlement and land clearance for unsustainable forms
of agriculture;
e  the downstream changes in the lhydrological regime as a result of forest clearance.
The physical impacts are also considered to be serious in swamplands, particularly peat swamps,
but the incidence of planned new roads in such terrain is relatively low.
B). Impacts on the biological environment.
In this case, interest is mainly focused on the indigenous fauna and flora. Thus, any new road
through the remaining forests of the region, whether in the mountains or the swamps, is likely to
have major negative impacts, due to:
*  improved access to fragile or protected areas and subsequent uncontrolled encroachment into
such areas;
*  damage to fragile ecological habitats;
*  illegal hunting of endangered and protected wildlife;
*  the negative effect of the barrier imposed by the road, and habitat fragmentation.
C). Impacts on the socio-economic environment.
Two very different situations are envisaged here. In already intensively used terrain, such as
fertile agricultural areas or on the outskirts of towns, there may be problems of land acquisition
wherever a new road is constructed or an existing road is widened. Some of the major social
impacts caused by such projects are:
*  compulsory acquisition of land, property and business;
*  economic losses for affected individuals and farm families;
*  temporary or permanent loss of income for subsistence;
*  people with fewer resources and skill become more vulnerable;
8



*  social and family disruption due to displacement and relocation;
*  loss of community benefits and social disintegration.
Following construction, the new road may provide opportunities for new settlement, and there is
commonly appreciation in real estate values. These issues require proper management by local
government to prevent ribbon development.
In more remote areas, the issues are very different:
*  disruption of traditional land use practices and impacts induced by altering land use patterns;
*  disruption to indigenous and isolated communities, who may be disadvantaged by land
speculation, in-migration, or allocation of concessions.
4.6. Isolated Communities
Both the World Bank and the Government of Indonesia (GOI) have a special concern for
communities who have been disadvantaged, or left behind, in the development process, 'but their
views differ in the identification of these peoples. The World Bank focus of concern has been
"indigenous peoples", while the GOI's has been "isolated peoples" (suku terasing). In some
cases the two are synonymous, but they are not identical.
Refinements of World Bank Operational Directive 4.20 specific to Indonesia should be included
in the NSRRP. For the four provinces of the project region, it appears that only in Riau are there
unique cultural groups distinct from the dominant ethnic population. Thus the pilot Regional
Road Project should be able to develop and test in applied situations procedures for dealing with
indigenous peoples on a limited trial basis so that tested and refined procedures will be in place
for RRP in areas such as Kalimantan and Irian Jaya which are inhabited by numerous distinct
cultural groups.
5. PROJECT DEFINITION, SCREENING, MITIGATION AND
MONITORING.
At this stage specific sub-projects that might be included, have only been provisionally screened,
so detailed discussion on alternatives, mitigation and monitoring must be focused on the
approach to be taken during implementation of NSRRP. The NSRRP provides for screening of
all candidate projects and a full economic, social and environmental assessment of all capacity
expansion and network extension projects within the project region to ensure that projects
selected are appropriate for the optimal development of the region.
Environmental and social issues can be divided into three planning and management phases
Project Planning and design, Project Construction and Post-Project Management.
5.1. Project Planning and Design
Capacity expansion and network extension projects selected for development are required by law
to be in agreement with the spatial plans and the selection of routes and the design of the road
projects should be based on full economic, environmental and social studies carried out prior to
the acceptance of any project for development. The design of the proposed roads will be in
accordance with the standards already set by Bina Marga, the executing agency.
The initial planning and design studies will identify the need for specific environmental studies
(ANDAL, RKL/RPL) which must be conducted prior to the acceptance of the project for
development. Where such studies are undertaken, proposals for mitigation of impacts must be
9



documented and the recommendations made incorporated into the design of the road. In some
cases, new alignments may be recommended and in the extreme case the project will be rejected.
Communities to be affected by proposed road projects should be invited to participate in the
planning of those projects.
5.2. Project Construction 
During the construction pllase environmental impacts are those resulting from direct physical
construction activities, such as earthworks. In addition there are the minor short term impacts
such as dust and smoke raised by construction activities and wastes from construction camps.
Measures for mitigation of the former impacts should have already been covered within the
project design based on the environmental studies, and the general conditions of contract should
address the latter.
The most important social impacts occurring during this phase are social-economic
displacement. Loss of land or other property is the most significant long term social impact.
Short term social impacts include inconveniences during the period of construction, as well as
possible health problems.
The key issue during construction is adequate supervision to ensure that mitigation measures are
carried out.
5.3. Post-Project Management
After a road project has been completed there are a number of social and environmental impacts
which might arise due to poor post-project management rather than directly as a result of the
project itself. Where projects provide new or improved access to environmentally sensitive or
protected regions, such as conservation forests or steeply sloping land, poor post-project
management of the region can result in serious negative impacts.
Planning and controlling development of the lands adjacent to transport link projects is primarily
the management responsibility of the BAPPEDA as the administrative arm of the
Bupati/Governor who heads the local government. Secondary responsibility for post-project
management also falls within the duties of the National Land Board (BPN) and the Forestry
Department. The NSRRP will be encouraging local 'ownership' of the projects and the more
active participation of BAPPEDA and other agencies in the planning of transport developments is
one main objective of the project. The main problem is finding the key to ensuring that the
recommendations are followed and effective post project monitoring is essential.
5.4. Project Screening Procedures
All road projects proposed for development will be screened for potential environmental and
social impacts building on the procedures already operating for the kabupaten roads projects.
Diagram 5.1 summarises the screening procedures which are proposed for NSRRP. The
procedures incorporate the criteria defined in the current Govemment regulations. For all
network extension and capacity expansion sub-projects to be implemented under the project, a
preliminary environmental and social impact screening will be required. This will be done in two
stages, first through the collection of secondary data and secondly by ground truthing. Checklists
have been prepared for this activity and are shown in Appendix 1.
Kqjian Lingkun.an stLdies
Existing kabupaten roads that are not proposed for widening are covered by sectoral KL studies.
The product of the KL would be either standard management procedures sectoral (UKL/UPL) or
the Terms of Reference for the ANDAL study.
10



ANDAL studies
The screening procedures would identify all projects requiring a full ANDAL study and these
would be carried out based on their economic priorities for development. The ToR for the
ANDAL study would be determined by the likely impacts determined in the KL study.
It is proposed that the province Komisi Daerah (KomDa) be given the responsibility of reviewing
and approving sub-projectOscreening and environmental management and monitoring plans, and
general oversight and evalhationi of these activities in NSRRP.
The budget for the ANDAL study and the implementation of both the RKL and the RPL must be
provided by the developing agency, but the budget for the supervision and reporting is provided
by the institutions respons;ible for these tasks.
The screening will produce two categories of projects which are considered below.
A. Projects having No Significant Environmental Impacts
A large number of road projects are small-scale and fall outside the criteria of projects requiring
full EIA studies or UKL and UPL as determined according to KEP-39 MENLH/8/1996 or
KEPMEN PU No. 481/KPTS/1996. A methodology for the environmental management of such
projects was developed through the IBRD-funded Rural Roads and Kabupaten Roads Projects,
and this has become accepted practice for road projects at kabupaten level. The methodology
involves Sectoral Environmental Assessment and Management. The management measures
required to handle the minor negative impacts of these types of projects are mostly incorporated
into the existing Technical Guidelines and Specifications for Kabupaten roads. The Sectoral
Assessment methodology is applicable to, and under the current legislation serves as the UKL
and UPL for, all road sub-projects that are screened as having only minor impacts, that do not
require any further assessment.
B. Projects having Significant Environmental Impacts
The majority of sub-projects identified as candidates for the capacity expansion and network
extension are classified as having significant impacts in at least one component, in at least one
segment of the proposed corridor. For these, the recommended procedure is for a preliminary
field screening. This will determine whether a full ANDAL is required, in which case the data
collected will assist in the preparation of the Terms of Reference.
i. Significant Impacts not requiring fullANDAL.
In some circumstances the preliminary assessment may decide that although the predicted
impacts are significant, a full evaluation is unnecessary because established practices for
environmental management of road construction will be sufficient to handle the affects on
erosion, watershed protection etc.
In such cases, the preliminary assessment would be submitted to the Environmental Commission
in the usual way, and the recommendation must be accepted that no ANDAL will be executed.
Project-specific UKL and UPL would be drawn up that focus on implementation of good
practice, making recommendations on mitigation measures required.
ii. Significant Impacts requiring full ANDAL.
For all projects requiring full ANDAL, the ANDAL will be completed or approved prior to
selection into the annual works programmes.
11



l  W;    W       Wl   t::t:::I-----------------------
t . . . , Eg~M
12~~~~~~1



If the ANDAL rejects the sub-project on environmental gounds the sub-project will not be
selected into the annual works progamme. If the project is found to be acceptable the report will
include RKL/RPL reports making recommendations on mitigation measures required.
5.5. Preliminary Screening of Candidate Sub-Projects.
A rapid map-based screening has been carried out on most of the identified capacity expansion
and network extension sub-projects that have been proposed, following the simple proforma
developed. For network extension projects, sensitive terrain generally relates to steepland forests
and protection forest status, while for capacity expansion projects it relates to density of
population and land use. For the latter, screening has focused mainly on those projects which are
thought to require significant widening, but it must be emphasised that widening proposals may
change following the availability of better traffic data, and that this screening is therefore only
preliminary. It is estimated that 20 % of possible projects will require ANDAL and 80 % will
require project specific UKL and UPL.
6. INSTITUTIONAL NEEDS
The preparation study for the NSRRP (RRTPA) identified a number of areas in which
Institutional strengthening would improve road development planning, implementation and
monitoring. Institutional strengthening is an important part of the NSRRP and Technical
Assistance is being provided to achieve this. In addition greater consultation between the
agencies concerned with regional and transport development is to be encouraged and
consultation with non-government interested parties is to be promoted through the project.
6.1. Technical Assistance For Social and Environmental Issues.
i. Technical Assistance for Feasibility Studies
An expatriate Environmentalist is to be provided for 12 man months, to establish and co-
ordinate the activities of environmental and social impact assessment within the feasibility
studies. He will be assisted by an Environmental Impact Assessor (local 24 mm) and a Social
Impact Assessor (local 24mm) to provide training in feasibility study procedures relating to
assessment of social and environmental impact, to  participants in the feasibility studies
programme executed under NSRRP.
ii. Technical Assistance for Strategic Planning.
An Environmental Planner (local 24 mm) and a Sociologist (local 24 mm) will provide training
and support on environmental and social issues, to the Transport Planning Committees (TPC)
and Provincial Institutions involved in the 'strategic planning activities'.
The main tasks will be to establish liaisons between provincial agencies to ensure that
environmental and social issues are fully considered and that appropriate mitigation measures
and project monitoring take place.
iii. Technical Assistance for Planning and Programming.
An Environmental Analyst (local 42 mm) will be appointed throughout the project to conduct
environmental and social impact screening of all projects to be considered for implementation
under the guidance of the expatriate Planning Co-ordinator responsible for this component. The
procedures currently adopted for kabupaten roads will be extended to cover all road projects in
the                                                                           region.
13



All Technical Assistance will be focused to training existing institutional staff and local
consultants so that the activities can be sustained after the end of the project. In particular,
training in implementing of RKL/RPL and UKL/UPL studies, and also training in supervisors of
the implementation of mitigation measures, will be carried out under the Technical Assistance.
Counterpart staff will be identified in each province to assist in the work programme.
6.2. Environmental Oversight Committee/ Komisi Daerah
The original Volume 3 tecommended the establishment of an 'Environmental Oversight
Committee' (EOC) with the responsibility of reviewing and approving sub-project screening and
environmental management and monitoring plans. Where established, these are the basic
responsibilities of Komisi Daerah (KomDa) whose establishment is proposed in PP No. 51 of
1993 regarding Environmental Impact Assessment. Hence, it is now proposed that the concept of
establishing an 'EOC' is dropped and the responsibilities given to the KomDa. If not yet
established, a KomDa should be set up to serve the NSRRP Project and other development
projects. The consultant environmentalist(s) would report and make recommendations directly to
this committee.
It is also proposed that KomDa, assisted by the TA consultants, and in association with the TPC,
will conduct an annual workshop in each province that will bring together the project proponents
and principal stakeholders, in order to discuss the environmental and social issues arising from
the NSRRP.
7. PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
7.1. Community Consultation Requirements
According to the Spatial Planning Act No. 24 of 1992 all people have a right to be involved with
the preparation, and have knowledge, of the spatial plan. However, mechanisms for
implementation of community consultation are not set forth within the Act, nor have they been
included in local operational guidelines (Peraturan Daerah or Perda) for the Act.
For road transport planning, SK No. 77 of Bina Marga also calls for community consultation
through the P5D procedure but often this procedure is not followed. PP 51 and KEP-
14/MENLH/3/1994  mandate  consultation  with  affected  communities,  and  KEP-
13/MENLH/3/1994 concerning membership of AMDAL Commisions provide for temporary
members representing affected communities. Thes requirements are also not often satisfied. An
important specific objective of the NSRRP will be to devise, test and refine a workable
procedure for community consultation.
There are three main areas of community consultation which are needed for integrated regional
transport.
i. Community consultation for transport planning and environmental assessment
ii. Community consultation for land acquisition and compensation
iii. Community consultation for resettlement
7.2. Community Consultation Already Conducted in NSRRP Preparation
7.2.1. Central Workshop.
On March 2nd 1997 Bina Marga, organised a workshop to inform government agencies, in
Jakarta and in the four provinces in the NSRRP project area, of the details of the proposed
project. Representatives from Riau, West Sumatra, North Sumatra and Aceh were represented at
14



the workshop and each- province was provided with four copies of all RRTPA reports which
includes the EIA/SIA report.
7.2.2. Provincial Workshops.
Provincial workshops were held in Pekanbaru (Riau) for Riau and West Sumatra provinces on ISt
July, and in Medan (Nortlq Sumatra) for North Sumatra and Aceh provinces on 3rd July 1997.
These involved mainly goyernment agencies but also included Universities and NGOs for the
discussions on the Environifental aspects.
At Riau a total of 148 persons attended the workshop, of which 111 were from the provinces of
Riau and West Sumatra and 37 were central government and consultant representatives. Six
NGOs/Universities were 'invited to attend by the provincial BAPPEDA and four of these
attended the workshop.
At Medan a total of 189 persons attended the workshop, of which 146 were from the provinces
of Aceh and North Sumatra and 41 were central government and consultant representatives. Ten
NGOs/Universities were invited to attend by the provincial BAPPEDA all attended the
workshop.
Both workshops and consultation meetings had the same programme which covered the folowing
main areas:-
a. The NSRRP definition. (2 hours)
b. The Safety Component of the Project. (1.5 hours)
c. The Co-ordination and Management of the Project. (I hours)
d. Public Consultations on Environmental and Social issues with NGO/Universities.
(1.5 hours)
All participants were provided with copies of translations of the main reports relating to the
presentations. Full details of the presentations and the supporting information provided 'to
participants is provided as an attachment to the main EIA/SIA report.
Following each session participants were allowed to ask questions and verbal answers were
provided. Full details of the questions and answers are provided in the Workshop report attached
to the EIA report.
7.2.3. Consultation Response by NGOlUniversities on Environmental issues.
In Pekanbaru, NGO/University participants asked 5 questions and made associated comments
about the project and environmental and social issues. In Medan, NGO/University participants
asked 8 questions and made associated comments about the project and environmental and social
issues.
They were generally well informed on the environmental issues but were not well informed on
the project details and many questions related to this topic. This reflected the fact that they did
not attend the earlier workshop sessions relating to the project itself.
7.2.4.EIA/SIA Public Disclosure and Further Consultations.
This EIA/SIA Executive Summary is to be publicly disclosed at one local University and one
Government Office in the Provincial Towns and following a press announcement further public
consultations are to be made in each province. The NGOs which attended the provincial
workshop consultations will be asked to encourage local private personnel to participate in the
consultations. Since there are no specific projects with full EIA/SIA assessments it is difficult to
identify people who will be affected, other than in a general way, and NGO assistance in this in
the future is considered essential.
15



Table 5.1 Environmental Screening for Network Extension:
Route                    From/to:_
On the proposed route, how many kilometres consist of ?:
Km   Km
A. Existing road (type Dnw  no widening)
- through densely occlupied terrain (urban/peri-urban/industrial)
- through agricultural settled terrain
- through non-settled/barely settled terrain or forest
- restricted land status (protection forest etc)
B. Existing road (type Dw - with widening)
- through densely oocupied terrain (urban/peri-urban/industrial)
- through agricultural/settled terrain
- through non-settled/barely settled terrain or forest
- restricted land status (protection forest etc)
C. New construction (type ID or IDw), i.e. - new roads, or upgrading with widening of existing non-
motorable roads? If category C, how many kilometres consist of new construction through:
Landform
- very steep mountainous terrain (peaks > lOOOm, slopes commonly >60%)
- other steepland (hilly, peaks 500- l OOOm, slopes mostly 26-40%)
- valleys within mountainous terrain
- undulating or rolling terrain (lowlands <SOOm, slopes mostly not >40%)
- flat, non-swampy terrain
- alluvial or swampy terrain
- coastal land systems (beaches, mangroves, estuarine)
- other (specify)
Land use/cover
- forest (primary or logged)
- bushland/shifting cultivation
- extensive land use systems (unimproved agriculture)
- intensive land use systems (mainly dryland/treecrops, few sawahs)
- intensive land use systems (mainly sawahs and associated villages)
- densely occupied land (urban, suburban, industrial)
- other (specify)
Forest status
- conservation areas (nature reserve, national park etc.)                                       l
- protection forest                                                                                                        i
- permanent forest (production forest, includes HTI)
- non-forest land (unclassified, or conversion forest)                                      I
- damaged forest/non-forest within forest status ("kawasan hutan rusak")
- other (specify)
Isolated villages 
How many villages?                                                             LIZ       IZ
What is the approximate population of these isolated villages?                |        TI     1
Agricultural potential
What is the potential for new agricultural settlement (low/medium/high)?
What is the potential for agricultural intensification (low/medium/high)?         U l           l
16



Table 5.2 Environmental Screening for Capacity Expansion:          Corridor
Link:          From/to:                                              Length_ km
Widening categorv:
Eval.   km     km
WI (existing up to 12m, widtn to up to 15-17m)                  4
W2 (widen to 14-15m)    I                                       4
W3 (existing 12-14m, widen to 22-24m)                           5
W4 (existing > 14m, widen to 22-24m)                             5
W5 (existing > 14m, widen to up to 15-17m)                      3
W6 (existing >14m, no widening required)                         I
W7 (existing min. width up to 4m, widen to 4.5-7m)              3
W8 (existing min. width 6.1-6.9m, widen to 7m when justified)    I
W9 (existing min. width 6m, widen to 7m when justified)          I
WIO (existing min. width 5.0-5.9m, widen to 7m)                 2
WI I (existing min. width 4.1-4.9m, widen to 7m)                3
Realignment (= new construction)                                 5
Land use/settlement density:
- densely populated urban residential terrain
- densely occupied commercial or industrial properties                  w
- mixed densely populated and intensively used agricultural terrain
(includes peri-urban land, ribbon development)               |      ull
- predominantly intensively used agricultural terrain but with
residential areas/villages (may include sawahs, mixed cropping etc)
- estate tree crops (includes HTI, "hutan milik")
- predominantly smallholder tree crops
- extensive ("unimproved") land use systems
- bushland/shifting cultivation
- forest
- other (specify)
Forest status:
- forest (primary or logged) - status Conservation or Protection
- status Production
- status Unclassified/Conversion
- damaged forest/non-forest within forest status ("kawasan hutan rusak")
- other (specify)
Topography&
- very steep (widening constrained by slopes >40% or narrow valleys)
- steepland (slopes mostly 26-40%, widening slightly constrained)
- undulating to rolling land (slopes mostly not >25%)
- flat land (non-swampy)
- swamps/wetlands
- other (specify)
17



