Document of
The World Bank
Reoort No:        16230 TUN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
INDUSTRY SUPPORT INSTITUTIONS UPGRADING PROJECT
May 23, 1996
Private Sector Development
Finance and Infrastructure Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
US$1 = TDO.96
TD1 = US$1.04
US$1 = FRF5.17
FRFI = US$0.19
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS
BMN                 Bureau de Mise d Niveau
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CETIME              Centre Technique des Industries Mecaniques et Electriques
CETTEX              Centre Technique du Textile
CNCC                Centre National du Cuir et de la Chaussure
CTE                 Centre Technique de l'Emballage
CTMCCV              Centre Technique des Materiaux de Construction, de la Ceramique et du Verre
CUP                 Competitiveness Upgrading Plan
DGI                 Direction Generale de l'Industrie
EC                  European Commission
ECAL                Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan
ETE                 Euro-Tunisie Entreprises
EU                  European Union
FODEC               Fonds de Developpement de la Compstitivitd
FODEP               Fonds de Depollution
FRF                 French franc
FTA                 Free Trade Agreement
GoT                 Government of Tunisia
1CB                 International Competitive Bidding
Ml                  Ministry of Industry
NCB                 National Competitive Bidding
NMS                 National Metrology System
NS                  National Shopping
PEC                 Programme for Enhancing Competitiveness
PCU                 Project Coordination Unit
PMN                 Programme de Mise d Niveau
PSD                 Private Sector Development
SC                  Steering Committee
SME/SMI             Small and Medium Enterprise/Small and Medium Industry
STC                 Sectoral technical center
TD                  Tunisian Dinar



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
INDUSTRY SUPPORT INSTITUTIONS UPGRADING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary
I.   INTRODUCTION                 ........................                           .   I
II.    THE STRATEGY FOR INDUSTRIAL COMPETITIVENESS                                         1
A.    Background                                                                    I
B.    The Industrial Upgrading Program           . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        2
C.    Industrial Technology Development                                             2
D.    Sectoral Technical Centers                                                    3
E.    The Government's Reform Agenda                                                3
III.    BANK AND EC ROLES AND LENDING STRATEGY                     . . . . . . . . .       6
A.    Bank Role and Lending Strategy           . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        6
B.     EC Role           ...................... .                                   7
IV.    THE PROJECT.8. .                          . .............. .                         8
A.    Project Rationale         . . . .. . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . .            8
B.    Project Objectives and Scope         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        9
C.    Project Description         .................. .                              9
D.     Project Costs          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  12
E.     Project Financing. ..................                                       13
F.  Environmental Aspects ................... . 14
G.    Financial and Economic Analysis          .... . .     .........    14
V.    PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION                           . ..............    15
A. Management ........................ .. 15
B.    Implementation          .......................                         .    16
C.   Procurement  .. ...................... .  16
D.    Disbursement            . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
E.    Accounts and Audits           ....................                      .    20
F.     Monitoring, Evaluation, and Reporting        .........................    20
G.    Bank Supervision          ...................................... .    21
VI.   BENEFITS AND RISKS                  .......................................    22
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED                     ....................                      .  23



Paoe No.
In-Text Tables
Table 4.1  Project Cost ..        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Table 4.2    Financing Plan       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
Table 5.1    Procurement Arrangements       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
Table 5.2    Disbursement Arrangements                                         19
Table 5.3    Estimated Disbursements      ............................    20
ANNEXES
Annex 2.1    Letter of Development Policy
Annex 3.1    International Experience with Technical Support Institutions
Annex 4.1    Existing STCs
CETIME
CETTEX
CNCC
CTMCCV
Annex 4.2    Proposed New STCs
Annex 4.3    National Metrology System
Annex 4.4    Project Costs and Financing by Institution and Component
Annex 4.5    Methodology for Financial and Economic Analysis
Annex 4.6    Examples of Financial and Economic Analysis
Annex 5.1    Performance Monitoring Indicators
Annex 5.2    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission that visited Tunisia in April 1996. The
Appraisal team comprised Judith Press (Task Manager), Dominique Pannier (Senior Public Sector
Management Specialist), Hamid Alavi (Industrial Specialist), Ezedine Hadj-Mabrouk (Senior
Environmental Specialist) and Giulio deTommaso (Consultant). Preparatory studies were financed under
a Japanese grant (TF023032). Ira Lieberman and Alain Soulard are the peer reviewers. Claudia Pardifias
is the lawyer. The Division Chief is Amir Al-Khafaji, the Country Director is Daniel Ritchie, and the
Regional Vice President is Kemal Dervis.



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
INDUSTRI SUPPORT INSTITUTIONS UPGRADING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Tunisia.
Executini! Agencv:   Ministry of Industry / Direction GWndrale de l 'Industrie (MI/DGI).
Beneficiaries:      Existing and new sectoral technical centers (STCs), and institutions participating
in the national metrology system (NMS).
Poverty Category:   Not applicable.
Loan Amount:        FRF200 million (US$38.7 million equivalent).
Terms:              Repayment in 17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard interest rate
for PIBOR-based French franc single currency loans.
Commitment Fee:    0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less any
waiver.
Onlending Terms:   For the four existing STCs, funds under the project will be onlent in French
francs, at the same PIBOR-based interest rate that the Bank charges, and with a
maturity not exceeding that of the Loan. For new STCs established under the
project, funds will be made available by the Borrower in French francs on a
grant basis.
Financing Plan:     See para. 4.20.
Rate or Return:     All investment projects will be required to demonstrate an economic rate ot
return of at least 12%.
Staff Appraisal
Report:              15579 TUN.
Project
Identification
Number:             40208.






REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
INDUSTRY SUPPORT INSTITUTIONS UPGRADING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1          Tunisia is at a critical point in its economic development, and both Government (GoT)
and the private sector are keenly aware of it. Economic performance has improved following an
extensive reform program over the last eight years, which has gone far to liberalize the economy and
orient it outward by removing restrictions and administrative controls over external trade, prices, and
credit.
1.2          Of critical importance to Tunisia's efforts to improve the international competitiveness
of its industry is the strengthening and upgrading of its support infrastructure, to make it more efficient
and responsive to the needs of private enterprises. International markets increasingly require products
to be certified (to ISO 9000 standards, etc.), requiring firms to have access to an accreditation system
and a national metrology system, both of which are now being established in Tunisia. Mechanisms to
diffuse information regarding international requirements are needed to support assimilation of new
technology, and laboratories are needed to analyze and test products to verify that they meet established
standards. Under past industrialization policies, GoT set up sectoral technical centers (STCs) to support
private enterprises, which are overwhelmingly small and medium enterprises (SMEs). The private sector
wishes to benefit from the services provided by STCs, and lobbies actively for the creation of additional
STCs.
HI.   THE STRATEGY FOR INDUSTRIAL COMPETITIVENESS
A.    Background
2.1          Tunisian industry developed after independence in 1956 behind high protective barriers.
For the last few decades, industrial development has been central to Tunisia's development strategy. The
country now has an important industrial base, which accounted for 31 percent of GDP in 1993, compared
to 24 percent in 1970. Manufacturing is the largest component of the industrial sector (consisting
primarily of agroindustry, construction materials, machinery, textiles, and chemicals), and in 1994
accounted for 17.5 percent of GDP, 20 percent of total employment, and about 65 percent of exports.
Tunisia has performed well in terms of export growth, with manufactured exports increasing by 9 percent
a year during 1980-92. although growth has slowed in recent years. This rate of growth was achieved
through a combination of policies that fostered macroeconomic stability and increased the outward
orientation of the economy.
2.2           GoT and the private sector agree that it is necessary to pursue integration with the world
economy and in particular the European Union (EU). To this end, it has recently signed a free trade
agreement (FTA) with the EU involving full trade liberalization over a 12 year period starting in 1997.
The scope and pace of tariff reduction are now clearly defined by the free trade agreement between
Tunisia and the EU, as well as by Tunisia's recent accession to the GATT/WTO.



- 2 -
2.3           GoT is fully aware of the necessity of meeting the challenge of such a free trade zone and
subsequent cooperation agreement. and thus of completing the overhaul of Tunisia's legal. regulatory,
and financial frameworks. Since it is seeking to manage and keep to a minimum the disruption and costs
the FTA is expected to cause in the short term, in particular in the industrial fabric, GoT has established
a progfram (Programme de Mise a Niveau - PMN) to help upgrade the competitiveness of industrial
enterprises to international standards. The European Commission (EC) is playing a leading role in
supporting the upgrading process, with a program for enhancing competitiveness (under preparation), as
well as the establishment of a Euro-Tunisian business center.
B.    The Industrial Upgrading Program
2.4           GoT's industrial upgrading program, the Programme de Mise a Niveau (PMN), has been
established to assist self-selecting (volunteering) viable private sector industrial enterprises to upgrade to
international standards. A diagnostic study, covering inter alia market potential, management capability,
technical performance and know-how, financial strength, and competitiveness are prepared by specialist
consultants for each firm. Where actual or achievable competitiveness is shown, preparation of a
competitiveness upgrading plan (CUP) follows, covering areas such as quality, productivity,
environmental issues, recapitalization, organization and management, and physical investments. The firm
implements this plan with appropriate technical assistance from various primarily private sector sources,
either domestic or foreign. Access to financing under the PMN is conditioned on the firm implementing
the agreed CUP. The sectoral technical centers (STCs) are viewed as essential players in the program,
both directly as providers of services to firms and as channels for foreign assistance.
2.5           GoT has established a quadripartite Steering Committee (SC) to oversee the PMN, which
includes representatives of relevant ministries and of the financial and enterprise sectors, and a
representative of the labor union. The SC is chaired by the Minister of Industry,. A coordinating entity,
the Bureau de Mise a Niveau (BMN) has also been set up, reporting to the Cabinet of the Minister of
Industry and serving as technical secretariat to the SC, to guide firms seeking competitiveness upgrading
through the PMN.
C.    Industrial Technolos!v Development
2.6           Main Impediments to Technology Transfers.   Given investors' preference for
technologically simple manufacturing activities, entrepreneurs consider the issue of technology transfer
a significant challenge. Foreign exchange control is no longer an impediment to technology transfer since
the introduction of current account convertibility. Both domestic and foreign direct investment enjoy a
high degree of freedom. Training to improve the Tunisian work force's capacity to absorb technology
needs to be developed and a favorable business environment put in place to ensure the success of
technology transfer.
2.7           The Diffusion of Technology. Diffusion of technology will occur more quickly and
widely if economic policies help raise the demand for technology - for example, by further import
liberalization and domestic competition among producers, and by incentives to acquire new manufacturing
machines and processes. Technology diffusion also depends on measures to increase the flow of
information about new technologies and to reduce the direct costs of acquiring new technology; the roles
of both the public and private sectors are important in broadening access to new technology. While
economic reforms and liberalization, including the recently signed FTA with the EU, have raised demand
for technology in Tunisian industry, the mechanisms for technology diffusion remain weak.



- 3 -
2.8           Low Domestic Technological Capacity. Technology transfer is defined as the transfer
of the know-how necessary to produce a given good or service. Technology refers to the manufacturing
process, but is ultimately reflected in the range and quality of products manufactured. In manufacturing,
technology is thus a function of the sophistication and range of the manufacturing equipment used. It is
also a function of the manufacturing process and product design, which can be upgraded by acquiring the
right to use more advanced propriety processes and product designs, usually through licensing
arrangements. In addition to the "hard" components of technology, such as machines, materials, and
design, the "soft" components of technology may be equally important because they determine how
efficiently the hard components are used in manufacturing. Critical elements of soft technology include
the organization and management of manufacturing firms and the training of staff. Taking into account
the growing pressure stemming from foreign competition, acquiring technological know-how and
machinery from foreign companies is viewed as critical to upgrade the quality of many domestic products
and to foster exports.
D.    Sectoral Technical Centers
2.9           Tunisian sectoral technical centers (STCs) are parastatal institutions (personnes morales
d'intgret 4conomique public - "juridical persons of public economic interest") managed by the private
sector. At present, they provide a wide array of services to enterprises and the industrial sectors they
serve; a common feature of these services is that they support or promote the acquisition and diffusion
of technology.
2. 10         Four STCs have been promoting the acquisition of technology in well-established activities
with large numbers of enterprises. On the whole, entrepreneurs find their services useful, although they
criticize their efficiency and the level of expertise of the staffs. The newest is CETTEX (the technical
center for the textiles sector), set up in 1992. The others are CNCC (for leather and shoes); CETIME
(for mechanical and electrical industries); and CTMCCV (for construction materials, ceramics, and
glass).
E.    The Government's Reform Agenda
2.11          GoT is undertaking a broad program to reform and upgrade the institutions supporting
the development of the private industrial sector, which are intended to play an important role in the PMN.
The retorm program is based on the recommendations of studies financed under a Japanese grant, for
which the Bank is implementing agency, and is more than a mere institutional reform of existing public
instruments. Rather, its aim is to redefine the priority functions of institutions; ensure optimum
utilization of limited public finances; clarify the relationships among the state, sectors, and institutions;
and encourage the institutions to behave like private-sector operators.
2.12          The general framework of the reform is designed to ease the transition to a situation in
which the STCs are incorporated as independent entities that provide services paid for out of allocated
public and sectoral resources and by fees from private client firms. This framework should allow each
institution to develop along its own lines. The pace of progress toward autonomy -- particularly with
respect to salary structures -- will he determined by the level of income generated by services sold to
enterprises.
2.13          Reform of the STCs' Charters. The Government initiated the reform process with the
enactment of Law No. 94-123 in November 1994, which introduced significant changes in the governance



- 4 -
of the STCs. The By-Laws of the STCs must also, henceforth, comply with the provisions of Decree
No. 95-439 of March 1995. which implements some provisions of Law No. 94-123. This reform aimed
to strengthen the STCs' autonomy under the guidance of private sector representatives, and to reinforce
their commercial orientation. Such an approach was advocated by the Bank in the Private Sector
Assessment,' which emphasized that the STCs need to work in cooperation with their sectors.
2.14         The main changes under the Law are to: (a) subject STC operations to commercial law
and to audit of accounts, while giving them financial autonomy as quasi-corporations - without share
capital-that pursue public economic goals (personne morale d 'intdr& &conomique public); (b) delegate
to the Board of each STC all major decisions regarding the STC's activities; (c) give a large majority
of the Board seats to private sector representatives (9 out of 12 members) nominated by the sector's
professional association and appointed by the Minister of Industry, and allow the Board to appoint the
Chairman and the Managing Director, the latter after consulting the Minister of Industry; and (d) provide
a broad definition of the powers of the Chairman and the Managing Director.
2.15          Public funding entails certain controls: (i) the Finance and Industry Ministers approve
current and capital expenditure budgets, financing plans, and the salary scale; and (ii) the Minister of
Industry approves the internal organization of the center, as well as borrowings. The new legal regime
provides for a system of checks and balances, which is generally appropriate, although state control over
salaries is an impediment to a fully commercial orientation. With an increasing proportion of commercial
revenues, and with a proper incentive scheme as provided for in the program and performance contracts
(para. 2.16), STCs are expected to become more autonomous and accountable to their clients'
representatives.
2.16          Program  and Performance Contracts.  To support the transition to autonomy, the
Government intends to implement a program and performance contract (PPC), which will constitute the
basic principle governing the relationship between the Ministry of Industry and the institution. To clarify
the role of each party, and ensure that the actions of each institution are consistent and directed toward
meeting the needs of private enterprises, the activities of each body will be classified in three categories,
each of which will be associated, eventually, with a specific payment mechanism:
(a)    Services provided for, and at the reguest of. enterprises in the sector, in the form of
technical assistance, product development, analyses or tests, training, information
services. and documentation. Such services must be billed in principle at full cost and
payment received (with the exception of activities for which there is an agreement for
sectoral support - see (b) below), or else be paid by subscription fees.
(b)    Support efforts benefitting all enterprises in a particular sector or subsector of activity,
e.g., the monitoring of technological developments, participation in standardization, etc.
Such support is currently funded through payments from FODEC (the Fonds de
DeSveloppement de la Competitivite, put in place by GoT to fund the industrial upgrading
process), but in future will be subject to a subscription levied on the sector in question.
In the future, these services may also be provided through competitive bidding, following
a pattern similar to that of franchising.
/    Report No. 12945-TUN, dated November 1994.



- 5 -
(c)    Operations in response to 2overnment needs, or specific needs for public services, should
initially be paid for by the Government through a multi-year contract. Subsequently.
once the institutions are completely private, these needs can be met by means of
competitive bidding. At such time, these functions can be assimilated into the first
category defined above. At present, payments are made through FODEC, but eventually
they will be entered in the central government budget.
2.17          Finally, during a transitional period (defined in the PPC), the Government can undertake
to contribute exceptional and decreasing support (i.e., a subsidy) while the STCs build up their self-
financing capacity (categories a+b+c below). This subsidy would therefore cover both the delivery of
services that are not currently remunerated at their true value, and the cost of inefficiencies. Introduction
of a cost accounting system will make it possible to determine clearly the costs of the various services.
2.18          The PPC is therefore an appropriate instrument while the institutions maintain their
current status. It defines:
(a)    The STC's revenue from enterprises for services supplied to them by the STC (cateworv
_2/); this should increase over a period of three to seven years, to reach at least 50
percent of operating expenses;
(b)    The share and/or amount of financing covering services provided in the general interest
(cate2orx b), for reasons of competitiveness;
(c)    The share and/or amount of financing covering the provision of public services (categorv
c); and
(d)    The gradual reduction and final elimination of the subsidy currently granted while the
institutions build up their self-financing capacity.
2.19          In addition, the PPC specifies to what degree an institution will be responsible for its own
capital budget and to what degree it will be funded by FODEC (or, in the future, by the government's
budget or a levy on the sector), based on the various categories of activities above.
2.20          The PPC also provides for positive and negative incentives.  In particular, positive
incentives will include ways to reward employees for increases in the institutions' incomes, while negative
incentives could be incurred if an institution requires a higher subsidy than provided for in the PPC. The
contract also indicates the measures to be adopted in case of noncompliance with contractual duties.
Finally, provision is made for a supervisory board (commission de suivi) to act as arbitrator in case of
disputes between the parties regarding possible nonperformance of contractual duties. Program and
pertormance contracts for the four existing sectoral technical centers have been prepared under terms of
reference agreed with the Bank.
This category largely corresponds to services described in para. 2.16 (a) above, but may also
include some payments from firms for services primarily covered by the sector, as described in
para. 2.16 (b).



2.21         The Government has sent the Bank a policy letter regarding its reform program for the
support institutions, which is attached (in translation) as Annex 2.1. In addition to the commitment to
implement the PPCs described above, this letter addresses the authorities' intentions to: (a) implement
the reform of the support institutions as a coherent set of service providers; (b) identify the priority
missions for each institution; (c) put in place an appropriate cost accounting and billing system in each
institution; and (d) initiate more flexible recruitment procedures as well as some form of incentive system
for personnel in each institution.
111. BANK AND EC ROLES AND LENDING STRATEGY
A.    Bank Role and Lending Strategv
3.1           As noted in the proposed Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), the pace of structural
reform needs to move forward decisively in Tunisia, particularly in the areas of trade and opening more
investment activities to the private sector. The rest of the world is changing rapidly, so that countries
such as Tunisia need to liberalize to enhance their international competitive position. The state needs to
decrease its size and role in the economy further, strengthen its actions in the provision of public goods
and the management of scarce resources, and encourage a higher level of private investment. both
domestic and foreign.
3.2          In this context, the Bank's private sector development (PSD) strategy in the short term
is to work in parallel on two fronts:
(a)    support further reform of the legal and regulatory frameworks to foster further private
sector development, through the proposed Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan;
and
(b)    support GoT's efforts to upgrade private firms' competitiveness, through this proposed
project. the proposed Second Training and Employment Project, and possible subsequent
operations.
In the long term, the Bank's PSD work in Tunisia is expected to encompass the private provision of
public services as well as the promotion of private agriculture, and in particular linkages with
agroindustry. The Bank is also working closely, and in complementarity, with the European Commission
(EC).
3.3           Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The recent Private Sector Assessment and other
economic sector work identify the main issues to be addressed to make the economy more competitive.
This work responds to the priorities of GoT, which regards the Bank as a valuable source of policy advice
and technical analysis, and to the strategy outlined in the CAS of supporting private sector development
and continued policy reform. Moreover, at GoT's request and in preparation for Bank support for PSD,
the Bank was executing agent for a set of studies, financed by a Japanese grant (TF023032), that
reviewed the needs in order to upgrade enterprises and strengthen support agencies. The project is
complementary to the proposed Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan (ECAL) and Second
Training and Employment Project, as well as to the EC programs aimed at supporting Tunisian efforts



- 7 -
to improve the international competitiveness of viable private sector enterprises. The Project has been
developed in close cooperation with the EC, which is expected to provide parallel cofinancing for the
technical assistance and training components.
3.4           The recently revised legal status and By-Laws of the industrial support agencies offers
a satisfactory framework for their transition to a corporate model, which the project seeks to support.
The proposed project addresses some of the institutional needs of the industrial support infrastructure,
and responds to the Govermnent's industrial competitiveness upgrading strategy and policy for the reform
of the technical support infrastructure.
3.5           Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Operations. As documented by an ASTTP study
of the use of external sources of technology by private enterprises in six countries,3 government support
must play a major role in many areas where the market itself does not provide it. As the study points
out. this is especially important for small scale industry (SSI), which suffers most from lack of support.
Empirical data. as documented by the study, suggest that government's role is first and foremost to create
an appropriate environment for technology acquisition and development and to ensure that the right
incentives are present, including product competition and an education system that produces quality
technical manpower. The survey further suggests that where technological institutions are needed,
government must support their creation or stimulate industry to cooperate and create them. Where such
institutions already exist, as in Tunisia, their success depends on several factors. Design of the present
project draws heavily on the study's findings (see Annex 3.1 for a summary of international experience
with technical support institutions).
3.6           The proposed project draws on successful examples of technological institution reform.
which point to the following key elements: (a) reward structures for staff based on quantity and quality
ot service provided to industrial clients. (b) flexibility in personnel management in order to select and
retain valuable technical staff, (c) leadership capable of driving the changes, and (d) a clear understanding
of who the clients are and their priority needs, translated into the right mix of STC activities. The project
performance indicators have been chosen to highlight progress along these lines (para. 5.20 ff).
B.    EC Role
3.7           The European Commission (EC) is playing a leading role in supporting the upgrading
process, with a Programme for Enhancing Competitiveness (PEC), under preparation, to support the
development of venture capital, provide technical assistance to the entity coordinating the PMN upgrading
process. and provide training to the banking system. The EC is also putting in place a Euro-Tunisian
business center. Euro-Tunisie Entreprises (ETE). which will undertake diagnoses of firms and provide
them with appropriate technical assistance, as well as promote joint ventures between Tunisian and
European firms.
3.8           The objective of the PEC is to provide support for the Tunisian private sector to enable
it to take advantage of opportunities that will arise through the liberalization of the trade regime, and to
enable it to contribute more generally to economic growth. The main focus of the program is on
development of the financial sector; it is designed to be complementary to the EC program providing
business services through the ETE, as well as providing support to GoT's PMN. The PEC is also
3/ Institutions and Policies for Industrial Technology Development (Yellow Cover), November 3, 1995,
Private/Public Sector and Technology Development Division, Asia Technical Department (ASTTP).



- 8 -
designed to he complementary to the ECAL under preparation by the Bank with parallel cofinancing from
the EC.
3.9          The PEC is expected to comprise the following components: (a) fostering development
of the Tunisian capital market through the establishment of a venture capital facility, with funds channeled
through the European Investment Bank: (b) support to the BMN, through providing medium-term
expatriate staff and, in particular, organizing targeted study tours for Tunisian decision makers and
policy-related workshops in Tunisia with external advisory inputs, on themes relating to the mise a.niveau
process. The EC has requested Bank support for and participation in this component; (c) assistance to
the banking system to deliver appropriate training for commercial bank staff so that the banking sector
can better address the needs of the business community, through a broad training program addressing
each bank's individual needs as well as areas of general concern; and (d) resources to strengthen the
EC's capacity to manage this series of activities in Tunisia, as well as oversee ETE, and a privatization
program yet to be launched.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.    Project Rationale
4.1           Tunisia's international competitiveness is limited by the capacity of private entrepreneurs,
mainly SMEs, to adapt their products to foreign market requirements and to meet increasing domestic
demand for quality and diversity. Acquiring and assimilating technology is central to overcoming both
difficulties. As in other developing countries, the overwhelming demand of industrial firms is for
services related to technology transfer. Technological know-how is so diverse and specialized that
individual firms (unless they have a large technology support group of their own) cannot possibly have
up-to-date knowledge in all relevant fields. Some needs may be satisfied through normal market
channels, or through means such as the use of private research firms, consultants, cooperation between
supplier and customer. etc. However. government support must play a major role in many areas where
the market itself does not provide it (para. 3.5).
4.2           The project involves an adjustment in the role played by the state, in line with the
Tunisian 1994 law reforming the statute of the STCs (para. 2.13), as well as with the lessons drawn from
successful examples of technology infrastructure (para. 3.5).
4.3           The Tunisian government will focus on its role as catalyst, offering financial assistance
to support the creation of new STCs and funding the cost of STC activities that benefit the entire sector
or subsector, in particular small and medium industries (SMIs). GoT will also (a) establish a supervisory
board for monitoring PPC execution, (b) promote common projects, such as the introduction of a
common cost accounting scheme. (c) set up an incentive scheme for STC personnel that will foster client
orientation, and (d) reform poorly performing STCs, by identifying their priority missions, providing
positive and negative incentives, and negotiating exceptional and decreasing financial support while
institutions build up their self-financing capacity. This role is commensurate with the state's capacity to
negotiate and enforce the rules of the game, with the supervisory board as arbitrator. These issues are
reflected in the letter of development policy received from GoT (see para. 2.21).



4.4           During project preparation. Government and the STCs examined their respective roles
and the STCs' mission. and prepared the divestiture of activities that directly compete with the private
sector. The project will strengthen and improve management and encourage the STCs to further clarify
their mandate and focus on marketable services. Therefore, the thrust of the reform supported by the
project is to foster the STCs' responsiveness: STCs, to be effective, should be proactive in reaching out
and providing services to industrial clients, foreseeing their future needs, and adjusting their services
accordingly.  As recommended by the study, the emphasis is on close association, rather than
competition, with the private sector.
B.    Proiect Objectives and Scope
4.5           The objective of the proposed project is to put in place an efficient and market-responsive
system of support agencies, providing assistance to the industrial sector, consisting mainly of small and
medium enterprises, and in particular to firms seeking to become more internationally competitive. The
project aims to enhance the effectiveness of GoT support for viable private sector enterprises' efforts to
upgrade their international competitiveness, which various donors, including the EC, are supporting. It
will improve management of the STCs through the introduction of program and performance contracts,
and encourage them to further clarify their mandate, and focus on marketable services.
C.    Project Description
4.6           The project will support:  (a) the institutional reform  and strengthening of the four
existing sectoral technical centers, (b) the creation of additional sectoral technical centers, and (c) the
establishment of a national metrology system (NMS). To this end, the Project will assist in financing
such productive facilities and resources of the technical institutions supporting the industrial sector as will
contribute to the economic and social development of the Borrower. Thus, the Bank loan will finance
civil works, goods and equipment, technical assistance and training for investment projects in support of
the above activities for the STCs, and civil works, goods and equipment for the NMS.
Existing Technical Centers
4.7           The four existing sectoral technical centers (STCs) are CETIME (mechanical and
electrical industries), CETTEX (textile sector), CNCC (leather and shoes), and CTMCCV (construction
materials, ceramics, and glass). A detailed description of each institution is given in Annex 4.1, and a
breakdown of planned investments by STC and covering about the next two years in Annex 4.4. The
Bank has reviewed the financial and economic justifications for these investments, which are satisfactory;
these planned investments account for 50 percent of the financing requested for the existing STCs under
the Bank loan. The project aims to address the particular needs of each of these institutions. within the
framework of the reform program described above.
4.8           The economy's new outward orientation requires both a broader range of services than
the STCs now provide and a strengthening of the private sector's capacity to provide technical expertise
to productive enterprises. Since one of the STCs' main functions is to provide the kind of technical
services that private firms can be expected to provide in the future, the STCs need to balance three
different objectives: providing technical expertise to enterprises in their sectors; developing private
sector capabilities for providing technical expertise, especially where private firms can be expected to
replace the STCs; and performing an array of functions that private firms cannot be expected to perform,
at least in the medium term.



- 10 -
4.9           There are a number of functions that the STCs can perform as repositories of sectoral
technical expertise. that are not likely to be performed by private firms. One is to collect and disseminate
information on technology for enterprises and, if requested, for the state. Most enterprises in Tunisia
are too small to (a) stay abreast of new techniques and product designs being adopted around the world;
(b) have laboratories to test inputs, outputs, and prototypes; and (c) employ production engineers able
to master issues of quality, conformity, production process optimization, etc. As an illustration of the
limited in-house technical capacity of Tunisian manufacturing industry, it should be noted that the average
ratio of engineers and technical staff to total staff in Tunisian companies is two to three times less than
in other countries in a similar stage of development and six times less than in industrialized countries.
While the ultimate objective should be to increase this ratio, adequate numbers of qualified personnel are
not currently available. The proposed Second Training and Employment Project will help develop
enterprise-based and in-service training to address these issues. In the meantime, the STCs can help
overcome at least some of the firms' limitations.
4.10          Draft program and performance contracts (PPCs), allowing for progressively greater
autonomy as an STC improves its performance, have been prepared with assistance from consultants
financed under the Japanese grant (para. 2.16 ff). The draft PPCs have been reviewed by the Bank and
found to be satisfactory. The contracts will transfer responsibility to the STCs and ensure that their
actions are consistent and directed toward meeting the needs of private firms; the contracts include
measures in case of noncompliance by either party. GoT has also sent the Bank a policy letter covering
this and other aspects of its reform program for support institutions (para. 2.21). Assurances have been
received that PPCs acceptable to the Bank will be signed with each existing STC. Signature of a PPC
satisfactory to the Bank will be a precondition for an STC to enter into a financing agreement with the
Borrower under the Loan (para. 4.23).
New Technical Centers
4.11          Until now, private investors have not taken the initiative to build up private advisory or
testing capacity on a purely market basis. For example, there is no domestic independent consulting or
engineering capacity in the sector of wood transformation and furniture manufacturing. This is due to
a combination of the following factors: (a) the Tunisian manufacturing sector is largely composed of
SMIs; (b) the lack of a tradition of cooperatives or exporting firms that encourage collective action;
(c) lack of confidence that privately run laboratories would protect commercial or industrial secrets; (d) a
weak industrial base in manufacturing, which translates into scarce local technical knowledge; (e) a
limited domestic market for engineering and consulting; (f) the reluctance of SMI entrepreneurs to utilize
foreign advisors or experts; and (g) their reluctance to pay market rates for professional consulting or
advisory services. These facts should not discourage the new STCs from following the example of
CETTEX in fostering the creation of private consulting practices or testing laboratories. Rather, they
underline the need for a transition period before envisaging full privatization of an STC.
4.12          Despite private sector reluctance to set up such centers, several employers' associations
have long advocated the creation of technical centers in their sectors. The November 1994 law reforming
the statute of technical centers introduced the concept of private management for those centers (para. 2.13
ff) and clarified the conditions attached to their creation. In addition, the Tunisian authorities and the
Bank have agreed that any new centers should adhere to the following principles:
(a)    A commercial orientation, which should translate into internal organization, management,
and working procedures equivalent to those in place in Tunisia's private sector;



- 11 -
(b)    A deliberate policy of restraint by (i) developing activities that are not performed or
insufficiently performed by private entrepreneurs, and (ii) carrying out these activities
using private sector providers to the greatest possible extent, following the model of the
sector-wide agreement on the use of laboratories developed by CETTEX;
(c)    Small, highly qualified technical staff, following CETTEX's example. In consequence,
personnel should be recruited on the basis of contracts comparable to those in the
corresponding private sector; and
(d)    An increasing share of revenue from services provided and billed to private firms, rapidly
attaining the threshold of 50 percent.
4.13          The 1994 law has given new impetus to the projects; four industrial sectors, namely
chemical industries, wood and furniture, agroindustry, and packaging, have officially requested the
creation of technical centers. Joint committees, made up of representatives from the sector and from the
Ministry of Industry, were established in the spring of 1995 to make recommendations on the main
activities of these centers and the methodology for their creation. Feasibility studies are currently
underway for these proposed new STCs, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and reflecting
the above principles, the results of which are expected by July 1996. These studies will include detailed
market studies that estimate actual and potential demand by industrial enterprises for services to be
provided by new STCs, and the financial and economic viability of their investment programs, including
rate of return requirements (at least 12 percent). Annex 4.2 provides summary information regarding
the proposed new STCs, and a tentative breakdown of planned investments is given in Annex 4.4.
4.14          New STCs will, therefore, be established along similar lines to the reformed existing
STCs, as market-responsive institutions expected rapidly to earn at least half their revenue from services
rendered to firms. The economic viability of one of the proposed new STCs, namely the technical center
for wrapping and packaging (Centre Technique de l'Emballage - C), has been established. The initial
results of the economic analysis of CTE show an internal economic rate of return (IERR) of 65 percent,
which is satisfactory to the Bank. This economic analysis is based on the agreed methodology (see Annex
4.6) to ensure that CTE will choose the most cost effective investment among various alternatives, while
maximizing the positive sectoral impact. The full report, including economic analysis, is available in the
project files. Assurances have been obtained that receipt by the Bank of a feasibility study establishing
the viability of each proposed new STC. and a signed PPC satisfactory to the Bank. will be preconditions
for signina a financing agreement between the STC and the Borrower (para. 4.23).
Metrology
4.15          Tunisian exports will be facilitated if products and/or production processes can be tested
and certified in Tunisia before incurring shipping costs. A necessary condition for product testing is that
Tunisian firms satisfy the health, safety and environmental standards applied in foreign markets, primarily
the European Union, which receives 85 percent of Tunisia's exports. Certification of production
processes may also be a necessary condition for obtaining subcontracts from foreign firms. This requires
Tunisian laboratories that are (a) able to certify, and (b) recognized by their trading partners.
International recognition requires that: (a) for metrology, primary level certification laboratories must be
up to international standards and recognized as such by international counterparts, and (b) for product
testing. relevant testing bodies must be accredited by recognized primary level certification organizations.



- 12 -
4.16          The project will support the creation of an NMS by financing civil works and equipment
inter alia for a primary level laboratory, which does not yet exist in Tunisia, and for industrial metrology.
This equipment and associated technical assistance is needed to fulfill the first objective. GoT has
developed a comprehensive plan for the accreditation of testing bodies. It has identified metrology as the
weak link in the chain of elements to build the country's accreditation and certification system. Before
investment in equipment is planned. a detailed study of the shape of the Tunisian metrology system is
required. In particular. a choice must be made between a centralized and a decentralized system. An
explanation of the issues involved is given in Annex 4.3, along with a brief description of the EC-funded
study that will provide the basis for an informed decision.
4.17          Estimates of costs are difficult to make, especially because of the significant difference
between the two scenarios. The costs of establishing a new, centralized national laboratory may be high:
roughly TD30 million could be needed for a qualified centralized laboratory. If a decentralized system
is chosen, this figure could probably be reduced to TD8-10 million (for civil works and equipment), the
actual cost to be determined by the quantitative analysis to be undertaken as part of the EC-funded study
of the requirements of testing bodies (laboratories) and industry.
4.18          The Bank project will ensure that the results of the EC-funded study translate quickly into
purchase of needed equipment. Under the project, US$10.4 million is allocated to finance the metrology
component. Subject to Bank approval of the consultant's recommendations, purchase of equipment and
execution of needed civil works will be financed out of the proceeds of the loan, up to US$7.4 million.
Donors (most likely the EC) or GoT will fund the associated costs of technical assistance and initial
training. Assurances have been received that the EC-funded study will be completed by March 31, 1997.
This study will ascertain the most appropriate principles and system to set up the metrology component.
On the basis thereof, GoT will determine, in agreement with the Bank, the most adequate institution to
implement this component.
D.    Project Costs
4.19          The estimated project cost is TD59.6 million (US$62.1 million equivalent). No physical
or price contingencies have been included, at GoT's request, since overall costs for significant
components of the project are only estimates. Direct and indirect foreign exchange costs account for
about US$54.1 million equivalent, or about 87 percent of total costs. Recurrent costs, including
personnel, have not been included in project costs. Estimated project costs by component are presented
in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1
Proiect Costs
(US$ million)                      (FRF million)
Component                    L_cal   Foreign      Total         Local      ForeiLn  Total
STCs                   6.5       45.1       51.7          33.7      233.4     267.1
Metrology               1.4       9.0       10.4           7.3       46.5       53.9
Total Proiect Cost             79       54.1       62.1          41.       279.8      32



- 13 -
E.    Project Financing
4.20         The proposed Bank loan will finance equipment, including vehicles, civil works. technical
assistance and training, and will finance about 62 percent of total project costs. The overall financing
plan for the project is presented in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2
Financing Plan
(US$ million)                      (FRF million)
Financier                    Local    Foreign    Total          Local    Foreign    Total
GoT/STCs               7.9       0.0        7.9          41.0       0.0       41.0
GoT/STCs/EC                   0.0      15.4       15.4           0.0      79.8       79.8
IBRD                   0.0      38.7       38.7           0.0     200.0      200.0
Total Financing               7.9      54.1       62.1          41.0     279.8      320.9
4.21          All project funds for STCs, including the environment sub-component, will be pooled,
while those for the metrology component will remain separate. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no single STC will utilize more than US$6 million equivalent of Loan funds, to ensure fair access for
STCs to project funds.
4.22          For the four existing STCs, funds under the project will be onlent in French francs, at
the same PIBOR-based interest rate that the Bank charges, and with a maturity not exceeding that of the
Loan. This is appropriate in view of the increasing autonomy of the STCs over the project's life, and
the principle of cost recovery. No commitment charge on the unwithdrawn amount of the onlent funds
shall be paid, however. For new STCs established under the project, funds will be made available by
the Borrower in French francs on a grant basis; this is acceptable since the STCs have no equity capital.
Assurances have been received that the Borrower will enter into a financing agreement acceptable to the
Bank regarding the conditions under which funds will be passed on to each institution by the Borrower.
Signature of a PPC satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 4.11 and 4.15) will be constitute a precondition for
an STC to enter into a financing agreement with the Borrower. Receipt of two signed financing
asreements satisfactory to the Bank will be a condition of Loan effectiveness: receipt of a signed
financing agreement, satisfactory to the Bank. will be reguired before proposed investments are approved
for each center.
4.23          Cofinancing. Parallel cofinancing for the project is expected primarily from the EC, in
the form of grants, to cover part of the technical assistance and training components. Assurances have
been received that GoT will ensure adequate financing for the technical assistance and training
components. in the event and to the extent that other donors do not fully cover these needs.



- 14 -
F.    Environmental Aspects
4.24          Supporting competitiveness upgrading of private industrial enterprises to international
standards requires a review not only of the financial soundness of these enterprises and their support
institutions but also of their technological, environmental, and management performance. This includes,
in particular, an assessment of: the production process; the quality control system; the consumption
and use of raw material, water, and energy; the production and management of waste; and the degree
of compliance with environmental and quality requirements and standards, both national and international.
The support institutions (the STCs) should be prepared to provide the best practice example as well as
the best service and advice in these areas.
4.25          Accordingly, under the project, STCs will review their own environmental and quality
control practices and develop a solid state-of-the-art knowledge base, as well as necessary institutional
capacity through training, technical expertise, studies, and enhancement/mitigation measures (including
win/win measures and investment in clean technologies and best environmental practices).  An
environmental institutional strengthening sub-component will constitute an integral part of the project's
technical assistance and investment program. In light of the project's scope, and after Bank review of
the operations of the four existing STCs (in particular the in-house demonstration production units) found
them to have an insignificant enviromnental impact, the project was classified as category C.
4.26          In addition, the centers (existing and new) are committed, under the proposed reform and
upgrading program and as part of their overall new mission and services, to support the competitiveness
upgrading process of participating private industrial enterprises, to bring them into line with international
standards and market requirements, especially in the areas of technological, environmental, quality, and
management performance. Accordingly, the centers are proposing, with the support of the project, to
strengthen or develop a new line of advisory and other services in the areas of information and research
on clean technologies; upstream waste minimization and reduction; economies in the use of raw
material, energy, water, and chemical products and other dangerous substances in the production process;
waste recovery and recycling; training in industrial best environmental practices; and environmental
audits.
4.27          The centers also expect to (a) assist private enterprises in applying for support from the
national depollution fund (Fonds de Depollution - FODEP), and (b) provide paid services, upon request,
to support the proposed establishment by the Ministry of the Environment of a national Environmental
Label Scheme. in particular by participating in the determination of industrial product groups and the
definition of selection criteria, and by providing assistance to enterprises in redesigning their products
and in preparing their applications to be awarded the environmental "clean production" label.
4.28          The support activities proposed under the project to strengthen the service capacity of both
the existing and new centers consist of pilot enviromnental audits, studies, technical assistance, in-house
and external training, information and publications, and some small equipment. The implementation of
these activities will be supervised as an integral part of the overall Bank project.
G.    Financial and Economic Analysis
4.29          A methodology for the financial and economic analysis of each category of proposed
subproject has been discussed and agreed with the Tunisian authorities, as well as with the management
of each existing and proposed new institution (see Annex 4.5). The same methodology will be applied



- 15 -
to the metrology component. Some features of this methodology, which relate specifically to the types
of activities undertaken by market-responsive technical support institutions, are summarized below.
4.30         For the financial analysis: (a) a market study to determine what services are needed by
private industries that are not being offered by the private sector, as well as the demand for the proposed
service at different prices; (b) a technical study to determine what investments are necessary to offer a
given service; and (c) financial rate of return analysis, including the full cost of the investment and of
operating expenses, with apro rata allocation for overheads, to verify that it is financially viable-for the
institution to provide the service at an acceptable price.
4.31         For the economic analysis:  (a) financial analysis at border prices for investments
demonstrating an adequate financial return, to ensure correct allocation of resources from a country
perspective; (b) for other subprojects, economic analysis based on (i) opportunity costs (e.g., of sending
products abroad for testing and certification, of lost value due to product spoilage, etc.), and
(ii) externalities (e.g., benefits of technical services to the entire sector).
4.32         The Bank has received satisfactory financial and economic analyses, following the agreed
methodology, of early year investment projects for the existing STCs, amounting to some 50 percent of
proposed Bank financing for the existing STCs (para. 4.7). Assurances have been received that financial
and economic analysis for investment projects for both new and existing STCs will be carried out
according to the methodology agreed with the Bank, and that all investments above the free limit (para.
5.4) will be reviewed by the Bank for prior approval. The condition for each disbursement for each STC
is that the Bank shall have arnroved the investment Dro*ect in respect of which withdrawals are requested.
V. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Manalerrent
5. 1          The Direction Generale de I 'Jndustrie (DGI) within the Tunisian Ministry of Industry has
carried out the leadership role during the preparation phase of the project. It will continue to play this
role in the execution phase, but with a different degree of direct involvement depending on whether the
beneficiary is an existing or new STC, or the institution (not yet defined) entrusted with responsibility
for establishing the national metrology system.
5.2           The MI will ensure overall coordination through a small Project Coordination Unit
(PCU), created within the DGI, to administer the project on behalf of the Government. The PCU will
be headed by a recently appointed director, who will act as a focal point for the beneficiaries. The PCU
director will report to the Director General of Industry; appropriate arrangements will be put in place for
the implementation of any component not entirely under the responsibility of the MI. The DGI will form,
as needed, specialized working groups of representatives of the STCs to ensure consistency in the
implementation of the reform program and execution of the project. This has already been planned for
matters of common interest, such as cost accounting. The PCU director will foster exchanges of
experience and documents relating to review of capital investments subprojects and the methodology used
for economic and financial justifications of such investments.



- 16 -
5.3           For each existing as well as new STC, the managing director will be responsible for
investment planning and the preparation of the PPC (para. 2.15), which will be presented to the newly
formed STC boards, which now include a majority of private enterprise representatives. In view of this
important step, the terms of reference for the consultant who has helped design the performance contracts
include the task of presenting draft proposals to these representatives and familiarizing them with the
concepts and logic of such contracts. In the case of new STCs, project implementation will be carried
out by the MI, until the boards of each STC appoint a chairman and confirm the managing director, in
accordance with the procedure set out in the March 1995 decree on mandatory provisions in technical
center By-Laws.
5.4          The PCU, with the help of designated Ministry of Industry administrative staff, will be
responsible for project accounts, review and guidance of procurement activity carried out by beneficiaries,
disbursement administration, monitoring of beneficiaries' activity, collecting project indicators, and
reporting. The PCU will also clear and monitor project commitments and disbursements (para. 5.17),
monitor the progress of the various components and report to the Government and the Bank semi-annually
on management issues and implementation. In addition, the Bank has delegated to the PCU the authority
to approve investment projects for the STCs up to a free limit of US$100,000 equivalent of Bank
financing, on the basis of the agreed criteria; this value may be increased as the PCU develops and
demonstrates its capacity to evaluate proposed investments. Each beneficiary institution will name a
counterpart for the PCU. The PCU Director will hold a full-time position for the first years of project
implementation. He will regularly liaise with the Bank's project staff and visiting missions, in particular
on issues relating to the allocation of funds among the various institutions.
5.5           Without the results of the study (para. 4.19), it is impossible to designate at this stage the
agency or agencies to be in charge of the metrology component. The DGI shall act as the interim
implementing agent until the study being undertaken to this end has been completed (para. 4.19). The
MI will be assisted by two EC-financed residential experts who will ensure consistency within the entire
quality promotion program and advise the Government on the preparation or implementation of
recommendations.
B.    Imulementation
5.6           The project will be implemented over a period of six years. Project completion is
expected by June 30, 2002, with the loan closing by December 31, 2002. A mid-term review of the
project will be carried out no later than December 31, 1999.
C.    Procurement
5.7           The procurement arrangements for the components to be financed by the Bank are
summarized in Table 5.1 below.



- 17 -
Table 5.1
Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ millions)
Proiect Element          ICB         NCB          Other         NBF          Total
1. Civil Works           -           10.6           -            -            10.6
(7.4)                                  (7.4)
2. Goods
2.1 Equipment         21.3           7.0          3.9a          -           32.2
(18.5)       (6.1)         (3.4)                     (28.0)
2.2 Vehicles                        3.4           -             -            3.4
(2.8)                                  (2.8)
3. TA & Training          -            -            0.5         15.4          15.9
(0.5)                     (0.5)
TOTALS                  21.3          21.0          4.4          15.4         62.1
(18.5)       (16.3)        (3.9)                     (38.7)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan.
N.B.F.: not Bank-financed. Due to rounding, numbers may not add up.
a/: includes international and national shopping.
5.8          All works, goods, and equipment to be financed by the Bank loan will be procured in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January
1995, revised January 1996). Tunisian manufacturers competing for contracts for the supply of goods
procured under international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures will receive domestic preference, in
accordance with Appendix 2 of the procurement guidelines.
5.9          Goods and equipment to be financed under the Bank loan will consist of laboratory
equipment, vehicles, office equipment and furniture, and technical documentation. To the extent
practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$250,000 or more each. Goods and equipment packages, including vehicles, estimated to cost more
than US$250.000 equivalent each, will be procured through ICB, using the Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) will be used for contracts estimated to cost between
US$100,000 and US$250,000, with an aggregate limit per STC, and for the NMS, of US$1 million.
International Shopping (IS), with at least three quotations solicited from two eligible countries, will be
used for contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000, with an aggregate limit per STC, and for the
NMS, of US$500,000. Off-the-shelf items, with a value not exceeding US$50,000 per contract, will be
procured through National Shopping (NS) by obtaining at least three competitive quotations, with an
aggregate limit per STC, and for the NMS, of US$250,000. For any two STCs, or for the NMS and
any one STC, the aggregate limit for IS and NS may be doubled. Any direct contracting for goods which
are of a proprietary nature, if required, will be approved on a case-by-case basis.



- 18 -
5.10         Civil works contracts for the construction of STCs and facilities for the NMS vary in
amount, with an average of around US$1.2 million, and none of these contracts will cost more than
US$3 million equivalent. All civil works will be carried out in accordance with NCB procedures
acceptable to the Bank, as they will not interest foreign contractors.
5.11         Contracts for technical assistance, consultants, and training will be awarded following the
Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency (August 1981), and assurances have been obtained to that effect.
5.12         Assistance will be provided to the implementing agency until its staff becomes conversant
with international commercial procurement practices and the Bank's procurement procedures. All
contracts for goods awarded through ICB, for works valued above US$350,000, for the employment of
consulting firms valued above US$100,000, and for the employment of individual consultants valued
above US$50,000 will be subject to prior Bank review. In addition, the first two bid evaluations and
contract awards for each STC, and for the NMS, below the prior review threshold will also be subject
to prior review. These limits will result in prior review of about 60 percent of procurement financed by
the Bank. All contracts subject to prior review will require submission of a completed Form 384 by the
PCU. All other contracts will be subject to selective ex-post review by the Bank. Assurances have been
received from the Government that procurement will be undertaken in accordance with the Bank's
procurement guidelines; standard bidding documents, as well as the format and content of the bid
evaluation reports, have also been agreed with the Borrower.
5.13         Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows:
(a)    Communication to the Bank, for review in accordance with the above provisions, of
bidding documents;
(b)    Prompt reporting of contract award information by the Borrower;
(c)    Comprehensive quarterly statements on procurement to the Bank by the Borrower
indicating:
(i)    A complete updated list of all contract awards, including contract award dates
and other data, as agreed with the Borrower during negotiations;
(ii)   Revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project, including
best estimates of allowances for physical and price contingencies;
(iii)   Revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract
award, and completion time for individual contracts; and
(iv)   Compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
D.    Disbursement
5.14         The proposed project will be implemented over a period of approximately six years and
is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002. The loan funds will be disbursed as follows: (a) civil
works at 70 percent of expenditures, (b) goods and equipment at 100 percent of foreign expenditures;



- 19 -
100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory cost), and 85 percent of local expenditures for locally
procured items. and (c) consultants' services and training at 100 percent of expenditures. Disbursement
arrangements are summarized in Table 5.2 below, and estimated disbursements in Table 5.3 below.
Retroactive financing of up to FRF20.0 million (10 percent of loan amount) will be provided to help
cover eligible start-up expenditures for goods or civil works made on or after April 1, 1996 (date the
appraisal started).
Table 5.2
Disbursement Arrangements
Category       Amount (mill.)              Expenditures to be financed
FRE     US$
equiv.
1. Civil Works       32.5     6.3   70 percent of expenditures
2. Equipment and    145.0   28.0   100 percent of foreign expenditures
Vehicles                            100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
85 percent of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
3. Consultants'       2.5     0.5   100 percent of expenditures
Services and
Training
4. Unallocated       20.0     3.9
TOTAL             200.0   38.7
5.15         Withdrawal applications will be fully documented except for those against contracts for
goods under US$250,000, for works under US$350,000, for services of consulting firms under
US$100,000, for services of individual consultants under US$50,000, and for training. Claims for
expenditures for contracts below this amount, and other expenditures not covered by a contract, will be
disbursed against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). SOEs should contain information as agreed with
the Bank during negotiations, and supporting documentation related to SOEs will be retained by the
agency in charge for periodic inspection by the Bank and external auditors.
5.16         A Special Account in French francs with an authorized allocation of FRF12 million
(US$2.3 million equivalent, representing 4 months average disbursements over the life of the loan), and
an initial deposit of FRF6 million, will be established at the Central Bank of Tunisia. The Special
Account should be replenished monthly, or more often when the total debits from the Special Account
are equal to one-third of the amount advanced to the Special Account. It should be used for all small and
medium-sized transactions with a value of less than 20 percent of the amount advanced to the Special
Account. .Normal documentation requirements apply for replenishment requests, in addition to a copy
of the bank statement from the institution holding the account, detailing the transactions made and
reconciled by the Borrower (PCU).



- 20 -
Tahle 5.3
Estimated Disbursements
Bank FY         1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003
in FRF million:     Annual           10.0  20.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  30.0  20.0
Cumulative      10.0  30.0  70.0  110.0  150.0  180.0  200.0
in US$ million eq.:   Annual          1.9   3.9   7.7   7.7   7.7   5.8   3.9
Cumulative       1.9   5.8  13.5  21.3  29.0  34.8  38.7
E.    Accounts and Audit
5.17         The PCU will establish and maintain separate project accounts and records for project
expenditures, including the Special Account. These records will be audited in accordance with the
"Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects and Disbursements under SOEs, Financed
by the World Bank" (March 1982). The PCU will maintain a consolidated account of all expenditures
under the project. These accounts will be audited annually by Government auditors in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles, under terms of reference approved by the Bank. The audit reports will
be furnished to the Bank six months after the end of each year, and will include separate opinions on the
adequacy of SOEs and the Special Account.
F.    Monitoring. Evaluation, and Reporting
5.18          Required reports are described above regarding project management (para. 5.4),
procurement (para. 5.13), disbursement (para. 5.16), and accounts and audit (para. 5.17). In addition,
assurances have been obtained that the project's impact will be monitored, in terms of both individual
STCs and their impact on the industrial sector, specifically as regards the competitiveness upgrading
process. A number of project performance indicators have been developed, as described below.
5.19         Project Output Indicators. These indicators measure the quantity and quality of services
that will be provided by the STCs. The output quantity indicators are mainly concerned with the
execution of program and performance contracts (PPCs). In order to monitor the execution of the PPCs,
a number of common indicators have been agreed for each technical center. These indicators are as
follows:
(a)    Financial Autonomy Ratio, defined as the share of revenues from category a and b
services (para. 2.18) to total operating expenditure. This ratio excludes rent paid by the
center and interest expenses;
(b)    Technical Staff Ratio, defined as the ratio of technical personnel to total staff of the
technical center;
(c)    Productivity Ratio, defined as the ratio of the number of days spent by operational
personnel on revenue-earning activities (categories a and b) to total number of days; and



- 21 -
(dI)    Market Penetration? Ratio. defined as the ratio of the number of enterprises using the
services of the technical centers to the total number of enterprises in the sector
concerned.
5.20          The output quality indicators will be compiled through STC client surveys. Biennial
surveys of industrial enterprises will be undertaken to solicit their opinion of these enterprises regarding
their awareness of the technical centers, as well as their appraisal of the quality of services offered by
the STCs, where appropriate, and to gather additional information to monitor project impact. Institutional
arrangements for carrying out the survey, the formulation of representative samples for each sector, and
specific survey content have all been agreed, and are described in Annex 5.1.
5.21          Project Outcome/lmpact Indicators. The above-mentioned biennial survey will also be
used to provide quantitative data to construct the following additional indicators to monitor project impact:
(e)    Evolution of value added for enterprises using the services of STCs, in relation to the
evolution of sectoral value added;
(f)    Evolution of productivity for enterprises using the services of STCs, in relation to the
evolution of sectoral productivity;
(g)    Evolution of exports for enterprises using the services of STCs, in relation to the
evolution of sectoral exports; and
(h)    Evolution of investment for enterprises using the services of STCs, in relation to the
evolution of sectoral investment.
G.    Bank Sunervision
5.22          Regular Bank supervision will seek to: (a) reach a shared opinion with the implementing
agency and the supervisory board of the progress made by the existing STCs in meeting the objectives
(i) of the reform policy, and (ii) contained in the PPCs; (b) review with the STCs possible changes in
their equipment needs; (c) review with the new STCs their work programs regarding developmental and
institutional aspects and capital investments; (d) review the need to update or modify project performance
indicators; and (e) define adjustments in the PCU's role and functions in the light of experience. For
the metrology component, supervision will focus on the implementation aspects of this component,
including: (a) confirmation of allocation of project implementation responsibility within the national
metrology system, and related action plans; (b) identification of project beneficiaries; (c) possible need
for a thorough institutional capacity review  of mandated institution;  (d) financing plans;  and
(e) procurement activities.



- 22 -
VI.   BENEFITS AND RISKS
Project Benefits
6.1           The pro ject will help Tunisia's economy to prepare for the challenges of the FTA with
the EU, by reducing the disruption and costs to the industrial fabric which the FTA is expected to cause
in the short term. The strengthening of Tunisia's industrial support infrastructure, to make it more
efficient and responsive to the needs of private enterprises, will contribute to the competitiveness
upgrading of industrial enterprises to international standards. Subprojects to be funded under the project
are expected to have rates of return of at least 12 percent.
6.2           The project will help develop Tunisian capacity to provide specialized advice to industry.
In addition, it will play a significant role in the development and diffusion of productivity-enhancing and
environmentally sustainable technologies, which will improve productivity and efficiency in the industrial
sector. The project will also foster the private provision of services to industry by refocusing the
activities of the technical support institutions. The project will benefit (a) STCs as well as private
lahoratories and consulting firms, (b) the Tunisian manufacturing sector, and (c) the Tunisian economy.
6.3           The STCs will benefit from the project through: (a) clarified mandates and closer ties
to firmns in their respective sectors; (b) increased autonomy in management, personnel recruitment, and
operational flexibility; (c) increased contribution to the industrial sector and its related impact on staff
motivation and pay, due to the incentive scheme; (d) strengthening of capital investment screening by
introduction of financial and economic analysis methodology and extension of market studies:
(e) financing of capital investments, enabling the introduction of up-to-date technology; (f) introduction
of domestic calibration means, which will facilitate STC accreditation; and (g) closer cooperation among
STCs. resulting in cross-fertilization (para. 5.2). Private laboratories and consulting firms will benefit
from: (a) divestiture of STCs' activities that compete with their own; (b) the STCs' new emphasis on
a complementary approach; and (c) access to domestic capacity in the metrology system.
6.4           The manufacturing sectors covered by existing or planned STCs will benefit-from (a) the
STCs' stronger client orientation, which will make them more accessible and responsive through (i) the
professional associations' ability to influence STC activities, and (ii) the PPC mechanism; (b) increased
technical focus of STC staff, who will be encouraged to deliver a value-added service through the PPC's
incentive scheme; (c) greater awareness among industrialists regarding services provided by STCs; and
(d) the establishment of new STCs.
6.5           The Tunisian economy as a whole will benefit from (a) higher quality goods produced
by local industry supported by an upgraded technological infrastructure; (b) budgetary savings through
reduced overlap among support institutions, reduced STC inefficiencies, and possible reduced direct and
indirect cost of foreign calibration of metrology instruments, due to the establishment of an NMS;
(c) increased competitiveness of Tunisian goods on international markets through broader and easier
access to domestic product and process certification; and (d) increased productivity and introduction of
environmentally sustainable technologies in industries receiving enhanced assistance from STCs.



- 23
Risks
6.6          Institutional. There is a risk that the institutional reform of the existing STCs may not
be fully implemented, for example by not applying negative incentives, when applicable, under the
performance contracts. This would enable the STCs to continue past practices, rather than reorient their
activities clearly toward satisfying the expressed needs of private sector firms. The consultative process
underway with the STCs, key representatives of the concerned sectors (who make up three-quarters of
the boards of the STCs), and GoT during the preparation of the program and performance contracts
should mitigate this risk. Also, GoT is fully convinced of the need for and soundness of the proposed
reform, and has sent a letter to the Bank regarding its reform policy (para. 2.21). The reforms will
nonetheless be an important focus of supervision during project implementation.
6.7           Economic. There is also an economic risk that project funds might not disburse fully,
in particular for the new STCs and the metrology component. This risk does not appear significant in
light of the urgency felt by all parties in Tunisia to establish the new STCs and to put in place a national
metrology system. In addition, the pooling system for funds available for STCs under the project (para.
4.21) should limit this risk considerably. However, the agreed mid-term review and possible subsequent
adjustment to project components mitigate this risk.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
7.]           Ag,reements have been reached on the following:
(a)    GoT's reform program  for the support institutions, which is set out in a letter of
development policy addressed to the Bank (para. 2.21);
(b)    For each existing and new STC, the signature of a program and performance contract
acceptable to the Bank will be an eligibility criterion for entering into a financing
agreement with the Borrower (paras. 4.11 and 4.15);
(c)    For each proposed new STC, receipt by the Bank of a feasibility study establishing its
viability will be an eligibility criterion for entering into a financing agreement with the
Borrower (para. 4.15);
(d)    The study to determine the basis on which the NMS should be set up will be completed
by March 31, 1997 (para. 4.19);
(e)    No single STC can utilize more than US$6 million equivalent of Loan funds (para. 4.21);
(f)    Each STC shall sign a financing agreement acceptable to the Bank with the Borrower for
making the proceeds of the Loan available (para. 4.23);
(g)    GoT will ensure adequate financing for the technical assistance and training components,
in the event and to the extent that other donors do not fully cover these needs (para.
4.23);



24 -
(h)    Financial and economic analysis for investment projects for both new and existing STCs
will be carried out according to the methodology agreed with the Bank, and all proposed
investments above the free limit will be reviewed by the Bank for prior approval (para.
4.32);
(i)    A mid-term review of the project will be carried out no later than December 31. 1999
(para. 5.6);
(j)    Employment of consultants and procurement of goods and works will be undertaken in
accordance, respectively, with the Bank's Consultants and Procurement Guidelines; also
standard bidding documents for ICB, as well as the format and content of the bid
evaluation reports, have been agreed with the Borrower (para. 5.12); and
(k)    Adequate monitoring and evaluation of the project will be carried out, including:
(i)    Semi-annual progress reports on project implementation, no later than March 31
and September 30 each year (para. 5.4);
(ii)    Quarterly statements on procurement (para. 5.13);
(iii)   Annual audits of the project accounts, including the Special Account, no later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year (para. 5.17);
(iv)   The use of agreed project performance indicators to measure the degree to which
the project's objectives are being achieved (paras. 5.18-21); and
(v)    A biennial survey of industrial firms, aimed at assessing the firms' views
regarding the STCs as well as compiling quantitative data to monitor the project's
impact, no later than March 31 every other year (paras. 5.20-21); and
7.2           The following will be the conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan:
(a)    Receipt by the Bank of at least two signed financing agreements satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 4.23); and
(b)    The PCU  shall have been established under terms of reference and operational
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, and its Director shall have been appointed (para.
5.2-4).
7.3           The condition for each disbursement for each STC is that the Bank shall have approved
the investment project in respect of which withdrawals are requested (para. 4.33).
7.4           On the basis of the above agreements, the project is considered suitable for a Bank loan
in the amount of FRF200 million for seventeen years, including five years of grace, to the Republic of
Tunisia, at the Bank's standard interest rate for PIBOR-based French franc single currency loans.



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
INDUSTRY SUPPORT INSTITUTIONS UPGRADING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ANNEXES
Annex 2.1   Letter of Development Policy
Annex 3.1   International Experience with Technical Support Institutions
Annex 4.1   Existing STCs
CETIME
CETTEX
CNCC
CTMCCV
Annex 4.2   Proposed New STCs
Annex 4.3   National Metrology System
Annex 4.4   Project Costs and Financing by Institution and Component
Annex 4.5   Methodology for Financial and Economic Analysis
Annex 4.6   Examples of Financial and Economic Analysis
Annex 5.1   Performance Monitoring Indicators
Annex 5.2   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File



I



Annex 2.1
Page 1 of 4
Republic of Tunisia
Ministry of Industry
May 2, 1996
to:   Mr. James Wolfensohn
President of the I1BRD
Subject:    Letter of general policy
Bd:         Industry Support Institutions Upgrading Project
Dear Mr. President,
Tunisia's industrial sector is widely diversified and contains a large number of small and
medium sized family businesses that are generally under-capitalized.
In recent years they have developed under the shelter of tariff and administrative barriers
and have not experienced any significant competition.
The growing trend in the world economy toward free trade has led Tunisia to adopt and
implement a structural adjustment program that will steadily lead, over time, to the liberalization
of its economy.
In addition, and to strengthen its economy's links to international markets, Tunisia has
become a signatory of the GAIT agreements, and has signed an agreement with the European
Union with a view to the introduction, according to a fixed timetable, of a free trade zone.
The Government of Tunisia has been examining the situation of the country's industrial
enterprises in order to create the best conditions for promoting their adaptation to the new
economic context in which Tunisia must henceforth operate.
A number of complementary actions have been identified and are currently being carried
out using various instruments and in close conjunction with representatives of the private sector.
One specific instrument is the upgrading program (Programme de Mise a Niveau) which consists
of a series of measures aimed at enterprises and their environment, and designed to help the
productive system to adapt to the requirements for opening Tunisia's economy. This program
has two components, which focus on the enterprise and its environment respectively.



Annex 2.1
Page 2 of 4
The agency responsible for the enterprise upgrading program is the steering committee
(COP1L), which is made up of representatives of the State, of financial institutions, of U77CA"'
and of the UGTF.
This first component of the program targets all private sector industrial enterprises having
a potential for growth and competitiveness, regardless of size, sector or location. It is based on
firms' voluntary participation in the upgrading process, which is sought through three main types
of action: intangible investments, physical investments and financial restructuring.
The second component of the program relates to basic infrastructure (mdustrial zones,
free zones, economic information ...) and technological infrastructure.
The program will be carried out in two stages. The first stage (1996 - 2000) will involve
the adaptation of Tunisia's industry so as to meet international competition. The second stage
(2001 - 2005) will see the consolidation of the process and its application to the commercial
sector.
In the context of this effort, the authorities have deemed it necessary to restructure,
upgrade and strengthen existing technical support institutions so that they can perform their task
of helping enterprises in a suitably energetic manner. The institutions concerned are the Centre
National du Cuir et de la Chaiwsure (CNCC), the Caere Technique des Matiriaur de
Construction de la Ciramique et du Verre (CTMCCV), the Centre Technique des Industries
AU#canique et Electrique (CEM ), and the Centre Technique du Textile (C Ex).
This restructuring will take place at several levels: refocusing of activities to avoid
competing with the private sector, organization supporting the marketing of the centers' services,
technical upgrading and skills strengthening, new management procedures and the setting of
objectives for the sale of services.
In addition, the authorities also feel it necessary to provide some other industrial sectors
with their own technical centers so as to help enhance their competitiveness: the wood and
furmiture, packaging, chemicals and agroindustry sectors would be the first to benefit. The
establishment of these centers would follow detailed feasibility studies (now under way) which
would in particular assess firms' demand for such services.
'/ The Tunisian confederation of employers.
2/ ThL' Tunisian trades union.



Annex 2.1
Page 3 of 4
Over the past year, diagnostic studies and action plans were carried out with assistance
from the Bank and a Japanese grant: these led to the identification of the approach to te
followed in order to achieve the objectives described above. A program to upgrade existing
support institutions has been prepared.
This program focuses particularly on steps to be taken by all the institutions concernedl,
such as the introduction of program and performance contracts that clearly define the relationship
between the State and these institutions. The program and performance contract will introduce
total management autonomy and accountability so that these institutions can become independent
and responsive to the needs of their sectors. Furthermore, the contract will provide for the
possible later privatization of these institutions, with which partners, such as professional
organizations and the State, would contract for the provision of services on the same basis as
corporate clients.  This process will be facilitated by the introduction of appropriate
organizational measures, including recruitment and remuneration conditions, as well as cost
accounting, etc.
The said support institutions upgrading program includes actions specific to each
institution, with special reference to the following:
-     refocusing of activities and internal reorganization of physical, human and
financial resources through the definition of three service categories benefitting
respectively individual enterprises, the sector as a whole and the State;
development of new activities such as industrial metrology and the specialized
training needed to raise the level of technology used;
-     cessation or transfer of certain activities that can be carried out by the private
sector;
-     definition, after a market or feasibility study, and implementation of a program
to strengthen physical plant and equipment, and skills.
The new technical centers should follow from the outset the approach laid out for the
existing centers.
Along with the study carried out with the assistance of the Bank and the Japanese grant,
whose results were briefly mentioned above, the authorities have also amended the institutional
framework in order to increase the management autonomy of the centers and to set them more
firmly in their industrial context. These changes were among the recommendations of the saidl
study. Thus the new law relating to technical centers in industrial sectors, promulgated ink
November 1994 (law No. 94-123), and decree No. 95-439 of March 13, 1995 establishing model



Annex 2.1
Page 4 of 4
statutes for technical centers, made major changes in the management of these centers by
entrusting their guidance to the relevant professional organizations and associating the latter with
their operations. This is a step allowing these centers to be run by representative professional
bodies.
In an upcoming phase the authorities will need to facilitate the cessation or transfer of
certair. activities at existing technical centers, and the release from some centers of some of the
non-operational staff who are no longer needed as a result of this transfer process and/or of the
reorientation towards technical skills.
The authorities will undertake these actions in the context of the program and
performance contracts which will govern all the technical centers.
It is thus evident that Tunisia attaches special importance to the upgrading, restructuring
and development of its system of support institutions for industrial sector enterprises, so as to
create the necessary conditions for their solid participation in the new context of membership
in the world economy.
To this end, Tunisia counts on the Bank's cooperation and assistance in implementing this
program.
Yours faithfully,
Slabeddine BOUGUERRA
Minister of Industry



Annex 3.1
Page 1 of 6
INTERNATIONAL EXPERIENCE WITH TECHNICAL SUPPORT INSTITUTIONS
A recent ASTTP study' has documented the key characteristics of Technology support Institutions
(TI). Of particular interest was how these TIs are organized, how they operate, their management
background and modus operandi, and their approach to services and income generation.
The issue of efficiency and the relative importance of alternative technology policies, incentive
measures and technical institutions (TIs) were of particular emphasis in this study.
I. Methodologv of the studv:
The paper examined 6 economies: India, Korea, Taiwan, Canada, Hungary and Mexico. While
in different geographical areas and at different stages of development all had an important
industrial base.
Several sectors of industrial activity were chosen to take account of technology intensity,
industrial structure, economies of scale and age of the industry.
Different types of survey instruments were used to ensure that the largest and most varied sample
of firms, policy-makers, industry-leaders and consumers were used in each country.
n1. Why do firms acguire technolol!y and how?
1. Why do firms seek technology?
3  to improve product competitiveness in domestic and/or export markets.
D To increase their production levels
3 To increase productivity
2. How do firms acquire technology and why?
The evidence suggests that in developing economies, there is significant interdependence betweerL
internal and external sources of innovation.
*  Internal sources of innovation: such as in-house R&D departments and laboratories,
are mostly used by companies seeking to develop new technology, which they cart
patent and copyright and which they will be able to exploit exclusively or modify tc
the specifications of the market to which they are seeking to cater.
'Institutions and Policies for Industrial Technology Development (Yellow cover), November 3, 1995.
PrivateJPublic Sector and Technology Development Division, Asia Technical Departnent (ASTTP)



Annex 3.1
Page 2 of 6
External sources of suWort such as (i) conscious imitation of competitors; (ii) the
acquisition of goods which come bundled with other information and skills;
(iii) outright purchase of knowledge (consultants, public research institutions and
training centers) are extensively used in developing countries. In these countries,
firms often need technology that is not new (and therefore devoid of the sensitive
issues surrounding R&D transfers), and lack the internal skills and financial resources
necessary to use technology appropriately. By using external sources of support,
firms tend to reap more benefits from economies of scale and scope and ease the
strain on financial and human resources.
* Firms which are competing in world markets, rely more on technology use and
knowledge. Moreover, those firms with an in-house R&D department to develop new
products tend to use external sources more than others.
External sources of technical assistance can tak-e many shapes. :
* vertical linkages between customer and suppliers and producers: This type of help
is most used by firms with in-house deDartnents who are able use it as a fast and
reliable source to solve problems, develop new products and improve the quality of
processes. Customer relations are important to those firms in the process of catching
up with foreign competitors. Medium sized firms rely heavily on this relationship
for information about technological and market developments. Finally, the smallest
firms use customers and suppliers for help in applied problem-solving, as a source
of commercial advice and as a means of building networks of contacts.
*  Moreover, the data suggest that, overall, foreign licensors as well consultants and
Private Contract Facilities are seldomly used because they are deemed too ex0ensive.
*  Public Technology Institutions, such as TIs2 have proven a popular choice among the
firms surveyed in this study, particularly among small and medium sized firms with
insufficient resources to seek out private external sources of knowledge.3
II. Characteristics of Technical Institutions
1. Main characteristics of Technological support institutions
*  Most TIs are organized along sectoral lines.
2 such as National, regional and local technical laboratories, standard universities and technical colleges.
except for Canada where private sources dominate



Annex 3.1
Page 3 of 6
*  Their ownership structure, however, varies greatly from country to country. In
general, who owns the Technical Institutes is not an important factor in improving
performance.
*  The ability of a TI to generate revenue can be an important incentive to be industry-
oriented, but is not a necessary prerequisite.
2. Who uses Technical Institutions ?
*   Large firms tend to utilize TIs more intensively than small firms, but TIs serving
medium-sized firms were judged the most dynamic.
*  A higher number of firms, irrespective of country of origin or sector of activity',
tended to using publicly owned Tls than any other form of technological service
facility available.
*  Firms in technologically mature sectors tended to use public TIs more than in other
sectors.
*   While public TIs play a very important role, a diversity of institutions is required to
serve industries which vary in their structures and in the nature of their core
technologies.
*  Firms in all countries and all sectors, also tended to use basic technological services
(such as services relating to the use and diffusion of know technologies, education
and training, and standards and testing), significantly more often than advancedl
services (such as contract R&D or technical problem solving).
II. Patterns of Use of Technolorical SuDport Institutions
The extent and purpose of its use depends however upon the size of the firm using the TI.
* National TIs, which are best able to support the development of new products and
therefore require complex technical skills are mostly used by the larger firms. Its use
was preferred by those finrns with in-house capabilities, which could be able to
develop the knowledge provided them by these TIs. Smaller firms, particularly see
national TIs as difficult to interact with, cumbersome and mired in red tape.
' This assertion is not true in the case of Canada. Similarly, public Tls were cited by more firms than any other
source of technology in every sector but pharmaceuticals (where use of foreign investors/licensors made
private contractual sources the most frequently used).



Annex 3.1
Page 4 of 6
In contrast,
regional and local Tis are preferred by medium and small sized firms in our survey.
Indeed, while lacking capability in new-product development, they are considered
good at helping firms solve specific product or process improvement problems by
allowing third party use of their facility and providing know-how. Firms using these
types of TIs have complemented them with involvement in industry associations to
ensure that contacts are secured, networks are built and that the firm is being exposed
to new ideas.
Overall, the study reveals that those forms of assistance most generally provided by public Tis
such as (i) helping firms in developing standards and (ii) granting subsidies to education and
training have been taken up by all types offirms, irrespective of size. It further demonstrates,
therefore, that public TIs are the best tool to promote technology diffusion among small and
medium sized enterprises.
IV. Making Technology Institutions work.
An effective TI must be dynamic and proactive in reaching out and providing services to its
industrial clients, in foreseeing what industry will need in the future and alerting firms in that
regard. It must be appreciated by its clients and be able to adapt to changes in industry and do
what the competition requires.
For an SSI, a well functioning productivity center will offer two services primarily: training and
problem solving. In general SSIs are labor intensive but very small firms. This will entail work
on industrial engineering as well as in the area of business and financial management. As
industry develops, TI should devote an increasing amount of activities on machinery, automation,
quality control and standards.
A good institute of standards and quality will assist companies through outreach, training and
other mechanisms to reach export standards, and work to make local standards compatible with
export market standards, and in particular for domestic industry to reach effective quality
assurance standards.
2. How do you measure performance ?
In order to evaluate perfornance, two particular areas should be focused on:
* the extent of use by clients of various services and their degree of satisfaction in the
service is important because it measures the Tls ability to penetrate the market.. In
this respect, the ability of a TI to earn revenue from clients would be an indication
of the value attached by clients to the service.



Annex 3.1
Page 5 of 6
* the extent of the change in the TI's company culture is important because ii
demonstrates a TI's dynamism in the past, how it has trained staff and changed
cultures to adapt to industries new requirements.
3. How do you manage a Technical Institute effectively?
Management of well-run Technology Institutes require similar skills to the management of any
other business:
*  Recognition of a TI's market and matching its resources to the client's needs. This
is particularly important for TIs with some public sector involvement.
*  Recruit highly gualified technical Reople able to provide the customer with efficient
services today and adapt and predict the future technological challenges of its clients.
* KeeD in close touch with a TI's client base and generate income. This can be
accomplished through various methods of interaction (extensive programs, regular
open houses, surveys and seminars). A TI doing work for its client base, and
therefore receiving increased income from contacts with clients, is an effective way
to ensure that there is systematic contact with client firms.
Our data suggests that formal organizational links such as membership on boards of advisers or
directors do not seem to have any impact on the quantity of service provided by TIs to industry.
Similarly, whether or not the CEO of the TI came from industry or research seems to make little
difference. This seems to signify that relying on superficial links in themselves is not sufficient
to improve performance. Instead, client orientation must be intemalized in the TI, as an integral
part of its activities.
4. How do you implement change in a TI ?
Client orientation entails the definition of goals and the creation of an incentive scheme to reward
their achievement. Technical staff should be encouraged to be client oriented, to stay on top of
their field and to work in teams. Income -eneration, if practical, should also be included as a
goal and a reward, wherever possible.
Effective Market Targeting: Diffusion of technology to industrial firms should be central to the
roles of TIs working with industry. Industry's demand is most often for information, skills.
training and the solution to Rroblems where the information know-how or answers are known to
those with a technical background or simply need to be reformulated.



Annex 3.1
Page 6 of 6
V. Government Role and Reforming Technoloev Infrastructure
1. What is an appropriate role for Government?
*  Creation of an arnropriate environment for technologv acguisition and development
and to ensure the right incentives are present. This means the presence of a local
industry which operates in a competitive environment domestically and/or abroad so
that Tls have demand for their product, the presence of an education system which
produces high quality manpower, and a technology infrastructure endowed with
equipment and people that can support industry for part of its technological needs.
Where TIs don't exist, Governments might stimulate industry to join together and form TIs,
initiate action itself and/or stimulate an educational institution or private groups to form TIs.
2. How can Government contribute to the reform of a TI?
Where an infrastructure already exists but is not perfomiing satisfactorily reform packages have
included the following components:
* Hard budget constraints - by squeezing TI budgets, the government forces the TIs to
better utilize the resources they have available and become demand driven institutions
serving well defined clienteles.
* re-focusing the TI's vision of its role, its client base and its internal procedures
(including well defined incentive schemes and Dro2rams for industrv) to match that
new vision, by aggressively promoting effective leadership.
Reforms which do not alter the basic incentive systems shaping TIs' on-going activities, such as
setting up marketing arms for TI innovations, changing the charter and composition of the Tis
board or adjusting the project selection criteria have shown disappointing results since they do
not change the institutions, instead simply delay necessary decisions.
For SSIs, where the study has revealed near universal absence of sufficient support to SSIs, Tis
should focus on pro-actively trying to expose firms to the benefits of change and generating a
demand for technology improvements, as well as resolving problems brought to them.



Annex 4.1
Page 1 of 13
CENTRE TECHNIQUE DES INDUSTRIES MECANIQUES ET ELECTRIQUES
(CETIME)
Background
The mechanical and electrical industry sector generates TD 1.1 billion turnover per
year, and exports a third of its total production ( approximately TD 365 million). It employs
about 46,000 people, approximately 1.6 percent of the total employed population in Tunisia.
Almost 800 firms are active in the sector; most are SMEs with fewer than 50 employees
each. The sector experienced strong growth in the 1980s and is expected to grow by 10
percent a year over the next four years, 1996-2000.
CETIME, the Technical Center for Mechanical Industries, has existed for almost
15 years. It was created in 1982' with World Bank support as a publicly owned, autonomous
agency with commercial and industrial activities. The center was expanded in 1988 with
UNDP support. In the past, its revenue sources and organizational structure were
determined by government decree. Its budget, statute, and activities were approved by the
Ministry of National Economy at the beginning of each fiscal year. The center's board was
made up by five Ministry representatives, one representative for public companies, two
representatives for private companies, and one representative for banks and financial
institutions. CETIME's statute is being redefined on the basis of Law 94-123, which relates
to the private management of technical centers.
The center currently employs 182 people, divided between the headquarters (87
people), the tooling department located in Sousse (92 people), and a small office in Sfax (3
people).
In a recent survey of firms operating in the sector, all had heard of CETIME, and
nearly 60 percent reported having used its services. Thus CETIME is well known in the
sector.
According to private sector representatives, CETIME has contributed to the
development of enterprises in the mechanical and electrical industry sector, but it is not
possible to quantify its past contribution. One criterion is the number of enterprises in the
sector, which grew from 430 in 1982 to 800 in 1994. Under the present project, CETIME
will focus on those services that private entrepreneurs need, without impeding development
of private engineering and consulting firms or competing with private manufacturers. Thus,
the center will divest competitive activities by selling off the units that produce prototypes,
small quantities of electronic printed circuits, tools and surface treatment products. As of
April 1996, the Bank and the center have agreed to launch a study to address the divestiture
from the tooling unit in Sousse.
Established by Law 82-45 on 25 May 1982, its statute was subsequently modified by
Law 94-123 of November 1994 to make the center more autonomous.



Annex 4.1
Page 2 of 13
Main activities
Information dissemination and training
CETIME is entrusted with disseminating technical know-how regarding the state of
foreign markets and the legal and administrative requirements for exports. It also provides
updates to the Tunisian industrial directory, which provides information on the activities of
its membership.
The center manages a 3000-volume library and receives 80 different periodicals and
trade magazines.
Training is one of the most important focuses of the center's activities. CETIME
provides instruction and training to workers on technical matters relating to the production
process, thus contributing to the development of a specialized labor force. The center also
retrains specialized workers for new subsectors in which there is demand for a skilled
workforce.
Technical expertise
The center offers technical expertise on administrative and trade matters (such as
ensuring that materials and products conform to regulations from importing countries). On
behalf of the Tunisian Govemment, as well as the judiciary and CETIME members, the
center also verifies and controls technical specifications, mechanical experiments, and
performance reports.
CETIME provides technical assistance to its membership on activity planning and
sector studies. In addition, it designs or adapts specialized software relevant to the
membership.
It provides technical evaluation of projects and advice on the choice of production
process, raw material, semi-manufactured products, and equipment. CETIME also supports
its members by designing and building prototypes.
Upon request, the center also creates small-scale designs, and microchips; prepares
models, and treats surfaces chemically.
Automation and modernization support
The center lends its technical expertise to designing more efficient capital equipment
for its membership, as well as to modifying existing equipment. It also assists the
membership with maintenance, either by directly performing maintenance operations or by
helping the firm to set up a program of capital maintenance.



Annex 4.1
Page 3 of 13
Planned activities
CETIME expects to develop, based on rigorous analysis of customers' demands:
a)    a new center for welding
b)    additional mechanical, electrical and electronics laboratory
c)    micro electronics
d)   technical documentation
e)    sectoral data and center to monitor technological developments; and
f)    pedagogical material for training purposes.
These investments will enable the center to develop or expand the following services:
a)   technical information and specialized vocational training;
b)   testing and analysis;
c)   technical assistance with a particular emphasis on quality control; and
d)   industrial metrology.
Details of planned investments for the next two to three years are given in Annex 4.4,
page 4. The financial and economic justifications for these investments have been reviewed
by the Bank and found to be satisfactory.
The development of specific activities will take place within the framework of a
coherent strategy, combining (i) divestiture; (ii) implementation of management tools,
including cost accounting; and (iii) development of a marketing strategy. The level of
commercial revenues should increase from 640,000 TD in 1995 to 2.333 million in 2000.
Financing
CETIME's resources, TD 1.25 Million in 1995, come from sales of its products and
services (TD 614,000 in 1995), as well as from government grants (TD 614,000 in 1995.
CETIME, unlike other centers, was not funded through a special levy.
CETIME's operating budget was estimated at TD 1.2 million for 1995. Salaries
accounted for over 67 percent of the 1995 operating budget.
Environmental aspects
CETIME's industrial operations are fairly small and involve the design and
production of electronic printed circuits and of metal and plastic transformation tools
(outillage de transformation). Improvements in waste management and in indoor air quality
and safety are to be undertaken, also as part of the environmental audit proposed under the
project.



Annex 4.1
Page 4 of 13
CENTRE TECHNIQUE DU TEXTILE (CETTEX)
Background
The textile industry is a large and dynamic sector of the Tunisian economy. It
comprises 2,200 enterprises, 80 percent of which have fewer than 100 workers. The sector
employs more than 210,000 people, about 9 percent of Tunisia's employed labor force and
half of Tunisia's industrial employment. However, the sector is severely lacking a qualified
specialized work force. Technical staff makes up only 0.4 percent of the sector's work force
(roughly 840 people); the rest is unskilled labor.
Although textile exports reached TD 1.6 biUion in 1994, the sector is not as
integrated as its Moroccan competitor. Overall, the sector lacks the up-to-date capital goods
necessary to compete with its East Asian or Mediterranean counterparts.
CETTEX, the Technical Center for Textile Industry, is the newest technical center
in Tunisia. It was established in 1990 as an autonomous publicly owned agency responsible
for commercial and industrial activities.2 It became operational only in 1994 after almost
twenty years of discussions between the Ministry responsible for Industry and sector
representatives to determine who would have the controlling power to establish the center.
In the past, CETIEX's revenue sources and organizational structure were determined
by Government decree.3 Its budget, statute, and activities were approved by the Ministry of
National Economy at the beginning of each fiscal year.
CETTEX's statute and management organization have been redefined on the basis of
Law 94-123 of November 1994 relating to the private management of technical centers.
In 1995, the center employed 40 people. It is planning to recruit 25 more people by
1997 to reach its planned ceiling of 65 people.
From the beginning of its operations, CEITEX has maintained an attitude that makes
it a highly regarded institution. It has: (i) followed a general rule of promoting partnerships
with private sector enterprises, as illustrated by the sector-wide agreement on the use of
existing laboratories; (ii) limited its technical assistance effort to only 30 percent of all
training services, with the objective of eliciting private sector initiative; and (iii) maintained
a ceiling on its own staff.
The center works closely with FENATEX, the professional association that
coordinates the activities and defends the interests of all firms in the sector. In addition,
CEITEX interacts with private sector representatives in working groups, which study issues
2 Established by Law 90-111 on December 31, 1990
3 Decree 91-1813 of December 2, 1991.



Annex 4.1
Page 5 of 13
related to textile laboratories, product creation and design, employee training, and strategic
sector studies.
Main activities
Technical assistance
The center, with the help of external experts, provides its membership with hands-on
assistance in marketing, operation improvement, quality enhancement and control, feasibility
studies for new projects, and reorganization planning.
Private firms in the sector consider technical assistance to be the center's most important
activity because it is most likely to affect the competitiveness of these firms. In 1995, it has
provided 1,250 man/day of experts, half of which were foreign experts, for 120 technical
assistance operations.
Training program
The center provides systematic training to workers through its member firms, in the
form of interlocking modules covering all aspects of the sector's activity and all types of
textile workers, from product designers to manual laborers. Training classes are designed to
incorporate the most up-to-date information and work methods. Classes include clothing
conception and design, knitting and other manufacturing techniques, quality enhancement and
control, human resource management, and marketing.
Furthermore, the center regularly finances studies to assess training needs in the
textile sector. The center also helps build networks of private training centers. in the two
years of the center's activity, the membership has been extremely satisfied with the results of
the training program. In 1995, it has organized 40 courses attended by 300 workers. The
number of workers attending these courses is expected to double in 1996.
Information dissemination and marketing
The center has been assisting other professional organizations, such as FENATEX, in
creating and implementing a modern and coherent promotion and marketing campaign for
textile goods "Made in Tunisia", both within Tunisia and internationally.
In this context, CETTEX has focused on coordinating and organizing the participation
of textile enterprises in trade shows both domestically and abroad. It has devised a
marketing strategy aimed at the European print media and has produced and financed
commercials for television.
Finally, in addition to its marketing activity, CETTEX manages a database with
information on the 2100 firms operating in the sector, and produces a yearly directory in
conjunction with FENATEX.
Research and Development
CETIEX's approach to R&D has been to act in conjunction with other bodies active
in R&D. At this stage, R&D activity in the sector is still embryonic and CE`TEX has



Annex 4.1
Page 6 of 13
established a laboratory to compensate for the general lack of technical equipment. The
laboratory will focus on testing and research activities needed by the sector that are not being
undertaken by other labs. This will ensure that no tasks will be duplicated, that optimal use
is made of sector resources, and that all equipment available is adequate for the tasks
undertaken.
Financins
CETTEX was funded by a special 1 percent levy on Tunisian textile sales and
imports, paid by textile companies. Currently it receives a subsidy from the Industrial
Upgrading Fund (FODEC). CITEX's resources, estimated at TD 2.8 million in 1995,
come from sales of its products and services (TD 150,000 in 1995, CETTEX's second full
year of activity), as well as from government subsidies (TD 2.6 million in 1995).
Salaries were estimated at TD 600,000 in 1995, approximately 60% of its operating budget,
and 21 % of total budget expenditures.
Planned activities
CETTEX's development plan is based on thorough needs analysis and economic
justification. It includes:
a)   laboratory equipment, as determined by the working group professionals from the
textile sector and laboratory owners;
b)    creating and equipping two training centers, one in Tunis and one in Sfax.
C)    computers and office equipment;
d)    vehicles;
e)    office fittings for the center in Tunis and its local branches.
Details of planned investments for the next two to three years are given in Annex 4.4,
page 5. The financial and economic justifications for these investments have been reviewed
by the Bank and found to be satisfactory.
The development plan will enable CETTEX to respond to its clients' needs in four
high priority areas:
a)    technical assistance to individual firms,
b)    training of specialized workers,
c)    sector promotion, and
d)    testing and product analysis.
CETTEX proportion of self financing should increase from 16% in 1995 to 42% in 2001.



Annex 4.1
Page 7 of 13
CENTRE NATIONAL DU CUIR ET DE LA CHAUSSURE (CNCC)
Background
The leather sector is a dynamic sector in Tunisia. It has grown an average of 28
percent a year from 1987 to 1993 and has become the second most important source of
exports for the Tunisian economy. Currently, over 400 private companies operate in this
field, employing over 36000 people, about 10 percent of Tunisia's industrial manufacturing
employment.
The sector has undergone a significant evolution recently, but is still dominated by
craftsmen who specialize in low price-low quality goods and therefore lack the commercial
and technical infrastructure to effectively export. The bulk of the production of shoes and
other leather goods is for domestic consumption. In 1993 only 21 percent of total production
was targeted for export, most of which was produced by foreign-owned enterprises.
Investment in the sector has remained weak4. The sector's average stock of capital
goods is outdated and investment in machinery is low, less than 2 percent of total industrial
investment in the last ten years. Consequently, Tunisian shoe and leather manufacturers
continue to remain behind their international competitors.
CNCC, the National Center for Leather and the shoemaking industry is the oldest
technical center in Tunisia. It was created in 19695 as an autonomous publicly owned
agency with commercial and industrial activities, to foster the development of leather and
shoemaking sector. In the past, its revenue sources and organizational structure were
determined by government decree6, and its budget, statute and activities were approved by
the Ministry of National Economy at the beginning of each fiscal year. Currently, CNCC's
statute and management structure are being redefined on the basis of Law 94-123 relating to
private management of technical centers.
The center currently employs 91 people, 14 of whom are on short term contracts. Of the 77
people on the permanent staff, 18 percent (14 people) are engineers and skilled technicians.
4 Investment has averaged only 1.5% of total investment in manufacturing industries over the
life-span of the VIII economic plan.
5 Established through Law 69-9 on January 24,1969, its statute was modified on June 2,1982
(Law 82-89) and on October 20, 1993( Law 93-101) to take into account the changes in
the leather industry.
6 Decree 94-1061 of May 9, 1994.



Annex 4.1
Page 8 of 13
Main activities
Promotion and marketing of the leather and shoemaking industry:
CNCC organizes and manages domestic trade shows, such as Promocuir
(promotional exposition of leather and shoe goods that is held in Tunis every year) and
coordinates Tunisian presence in trade shows abroad.
In addition, it organizes, finances, and manages regular meetings between local and
foreign businessmen active in the leather sector, and assists in setting up joint ventures and
other business partnerships within the domestic sector and with foreign businessmen .
CNCC offers information on resources available for subcontracting in the sector and
matches them with demand the through a database containing more than a thousand
references.
Information dissemination and training
The center publishes several magazines and periodicals to ensure dissemination of
latest available information on matters of interest to the membership and their potential
business partners.  In addition, it offers instruction on business-related issues (marketing and
distribution techniques, optimization of resources) as well assistance with the use of the latest
available technologies.
Research and development support
The center plans, designs and develops methods for working and treating leather more
cheaply and efficiently. The center is managing laboratories for all the leather-related
activities in which the membership is involved. It is currently managing, on a pilot basis, a
treatment plant to make leather water resistant. The plant conducts specialized tests on
materials and then provides technical assistance to any firm interested in the process.
Technical assistance
The center owns several specialized factories that are used, on a pilot basis, to
provide technical support in the areas of leather tanning and residual water processing. It
also runs a fine leather shoe factory to assist its members in the design and manufacture of
fine leather shoes.
Financin2
CNCC was financed through a special 1.5 percent levy on the turnover of the shoe
industry and is now is financed in part by Government funds channeled through the
FODEC, the Industrial Upgrading Fund. Currently, CNCC's level of self-financing is



Annex 4.1
Page 9 of 13
estimated between 5 and 7 percent its total income. Participation in trade shows accounted
for over a fifth of revenues.
For 1996, CNCC's expenses are projected to reach were estimated at TD 1.6
million, with wages and salaries representing over half of total expenses.
Areas for reform
CNCC is currently facing a number of challenges, including:
a) a low level of self financing--between 5 and 7 percent of its total income.
b) 77 staff, of whom only 18% are engineers or specialized technicians.
c) little or no cost-sharing by enterprises for the wide range of services performs for
the sector; and
d) a low utilization rate (between 30 and 50 percent of capacity) for laboratory
equipment and pilot manufacturing units.
Planned Activities
Within the framework of the reform program, which implies profound changes in the
way CNCC operates, it will be necessary to make modest investments for technical
upgrading of:
a) equipment to complement the services performed by the laboratories
b) machinery to complement the pilot production unit for shoes
c) equipment to complement the testing unit for leather produced by tanneries
Details of planned investments for the next two to three years are given in Annex 4.4,
page 6. The financial and economic justifications for these investments have been reviewed
by the Bank and found to be satisfactory.
This equipment should support CNCC's three pronged reform program which involves:
a) Reducing the range of services provided by focusing on (i) technical assistance,
(ii)testing and certification, (iii)training in specialized areas, (iv)sectoral promotion
activities and (v)informing enterprises on trends in fashion and design.
b) Reducing its administrative personnel by about 20 people to allow the recruitment
of qualified engineers and technicians.



Annlex 4.1
Page 1 0 of 13
c) Developing plans to market the center's services.
With implementation of these reforms, CNCC's "commercial revenue should
increase from 20% to 31 % between 1996 and 2000.
Environmental asDect
The CNCC equipped its tannery in 1992 with a wastewater treatment plant of
20m3/day capacity. This plant is used for both the treatment of its own effluent and for
experimenting with different treatment schemes that are more relevant to the needs of the
center's industrial clients. Further improvements in the environmental management of the
CNCC's small scale tannery, treatment plant, and demonstration shoe production unit will be
accomplished as part of the environmental audit proposed under the project.



Annex 4.1
Page 11 of 13
CENTRE TECHNIQUE DES MATERIAUX DE CONSTRUCTION DE LA
CERAMIQUE ET DU VTERRE (CTMCCV7)
The building materials, ceramics and glass industries sector consists of approximately
1200 firms, 250 of which manufacture goods. Most firms in the sector are small in size and
employ less than 50 workers each. The sector currently employs approximately 61,000
people, around 2.5 percent of the total employed population in Tunisia and 14.5 percent of
industrial employment. The sector suffers from a lack of technically qualified staff at all
levels.
The sector is dynamic in the Tunisian economy, generating a turnover of
approximately TD 992 million.
The CTMCCV, the Technical Center for Building Materials, Ceramics, and
Glass Industries was created in 19827 as an autonomous publicly owned agency with
commercial and industrial activities. In the past, its budget, statute, and activities were set
by government decree.8 Its board was composed of three Government representatives, one
representative from the financial sector, and four from firms active in the sector (one for
public firms and three for private firms). Its chief executive officer was nominated by the
Minister of the National Economy, under guidance from the professional organization
representing firms in the sector.
CTMCCV's statute has now been redefined on the basis of what was stipulated in
Law 94-123 relating to the private management of Technical centers.
Its role is to support the promotion and development of the sector, help increase the
productivity and technical proficiency of both public and private firms, and participate with
other agencies in regulating the sector.
Its main characteristics are:
a)    modest proportion of revenue generated by services sold to individual enterprises;
b)    under-utilization of human resources and equipment, resulting in low productivity;
c)    modest level of partnership with local research and training institutions or enterprises
but good access to bilateral assistance programs, which enables the center to benefit
from state-of-the-art equipment and technical assistance.
The center employed 80 people in 1995 (25 of whom are technical staff), divided
between headquarters and two regional centers, in Sfax and Sousse. The regional centers are
responsible for providing technical assistance on site and for representing the center
commercially.
7 Law 82-46 of May 25, 1982.
B Decree 82-1283 of September 18, 1982



Annex 4.1
Page 12 of 13
Main activities
Information dissemination and training
The center is entrusted with disseminating technical and commercial know-how within
the industry.
In response to demand from enterprises in the sector, estimated at 226,000 for the
VIII plan, and expected to surpass it during the IX plan. The center also retrains specialized
workers for new sectors of activity.
It conducts seminars and training programs for industrialists, engineers, and
technicians in the subsectors. In 1995, the center organized several seminars on issues such
as ceramics production technology, glass production technology, creation of a quality control
system, and making specialized health-care products using ceramics.
Furthermore CTMCCV cooperates with academia to provide hands-on training and
placement to university students and young professionals finishing their studies in related
fields.
It also disseminates information through the publication of specialized magazines and
periodicals.
Technical assistance and experise
The center provides its membership with technical assistance on issues such as clays,
sands, and limestone layer diagnostics; studies of the environmental impacts of activities; and
raw material and product testing. It also provides energy and technological audits upon
request.
Research and development
In conjunction with Tunisian universities, the center focuses on applied research to
devise and implement new products with industrial potential.
On demand, the center designs and creates new types of ceramics, marbles, and
masonry.
Financing
In addition to the receipts resulting from services provided (TD 100,000 or 12 percent
of total turnover, from 103 operations on behalf of 51 clients), CTMCCV was financed by a
special levy paid by companies in the sector, and now through the Industrial upgrading fund
(FODEC). FODEC subsidy for 1995 was estimated at TD 405,000, making up about 46%
of the centers resources.
For 1995, CTMCCV's budget included TD 880,000 for operating expenditures and
TD 300,000 for investment expenditures. Wages and salaries accounted for approximately
TD 600,000.



Annex 4.1
Page 13 of 13
The reform effort
Within the framework of the reform program, CTMCCV's development plan requires
the following investments:
a)    a series of small additional investments for on- and off-site testing units and
laboratories dealing with concrete, cement, glass, ceramics, bricks; for energy
audits; and for metrology
b)    supplemental equipment including vehicles, information technology, office furniture,
etc.
Details of planned investments for the next two to three years are given in Annex 4.4,
page 7. The financial and economic justifications for these investments have been reviewed
by the Bank and found to be satisfactory. This equipment should increase the impact of this
center on the technical upgrading of this sector, if combined with the following measures:
a)    divesting (by selling to private entrepreneurs) the activities of small-scale production
of ceramics, marble, and bricks;
b)    reviewing research activities and pursuing only those undertaken in partnership with
enterprises;
c)    increasing the ratio of technical to administrative staff so that the former eventually
comprise 45 to 50 percent of total staff;
d)    upgrading human resources through training, and by motivating staff through
introducing flexibility into the wage policy;
e)    developing a marketing strategy based on cost accounting.
With implementation of these reforms, the level of commercial revenues are expected to
increase from 12.3% to 50% between 1995 and 1999.
Environmental aspects
CTMCCV's production operations are also of semi-industrial nature and are mainly out of
used due to the lack of demand. In addition, these operations are due to be sold or
dismantled under the restructuring scheme proposed under the project.






Annex 4.2
Page I of 3
PROPOSED NEW SECTORAL TECHNICAL CENTERS
A.   Technical Center for Chemical Industries
1.    This center will support the technical upgrading of private enterprises in the chemicals
industries. These enterprises account for only 25 percent of total sectoral value added because
of the size and current public ownership of the Tunisian fertilizer industry. The main subsectors
are in the manufacturing process -- paints and inks, soap, perfumes and cosmetics - and not in
basic heavy production.
2.    The committee that undertook the preparatory studies, has identified, in part based on the
experience of other countries, the following main activities for this center, to be confirmed by
the results of the feasibility study:
a)    Technical services for the sector as a whole
- Organization of seminars and workshops
- Enterprise awareness of modem technology
- Research and development to adapt modem technology
- Technology information services
- Sectoral studies
b)    Technical assistance to individual firms (commercial services)
- Testing inputs and outputs, for conformity to norms and standards
- Tan'ming
- Quality assurance services
- Other competitiveness enhancing and services
- Techno-economic studies
- Technology studies
- Enviromnental impact studies
- Technical assistance to improve safety of chemical products
- Preparation of best-practice guides
- Diffusion of technical and commercial information
- Strategic studies
c)    Services for the Public Sector
- Training of public institutions' personnel
- Sectoral and strategic studies
- Technical assistance to public institutions
- Public information services



Annex 4.2
Page 2 of 3
B.    Technical Center for Wood and Furniture
3.    This center will focus on the technical needs of manufacturing enterprises in the wood and
furniture sector, which has long been protected by high tariffs. Accordingly, the furniture sector
is not very competitive given its structure, its low productivity and quality and the lack of
standards.Ninety percent of the inputs for this industry are imported. The relevant professional
association has been seeking the creation of a technical center since the 1980s. Another feature
of this sector is the predominant share of artisans and the small size of production units.
4.    Given the multiple needs of this sector, a committee that visited technical centers abroad,
initially decided that the center should focus on the following services:
a)    documentation and technical information,
b)    technical assistance,
c)    training and sectoral promotion (trade fairs), and
d)    testing and quality control.
This technical center will be launched in partnership with a foreign center such as CTBA irn
France.
C.    Technical Center for WraDpin2 and Packagine
5.    This technical center already exists as a departnent of INNORPI, the national institute for
standards and patents. This department was created in 1988 with the support of UNDP. Its
services help Tunisian exporters develop their knowledge of the packaging requirements in.
foreign markets. It also offers technical assistance to packaging producers (cardboard), drafts
standards, and tests products.
6.    The department is made up of three units:  design, a test laboratory for cardboard
packaging and another for metallic packaging; it employs 8 people. Its turnover was modest -
less than TD 10,000 in 1993.
7.    The objectives for its development as a full-fledged technical center are to:
a)    develop a "commercial" behavior, based on the results of market analysis, and
b)    augment laboratory equipment to respond to the needs of Tunisia's agro-industry.
D.    Technical Center for Aero-Industrv
8.    The design of the center is challenging, given the scope of potential activities and the
multiplicity of subsectors (24) and sectoral associations (30) that come under the umbrella of the



Annex 4.2
Page 3 of 3
agro-industry association. Within the Ministry of Industry, a separate department is responsible
for the agro-industry sector; this department was transferred from the Ministry of Agriculture
in early 1995.
9.    The agro-industrial sector is large and diversified, encompassing various products,
including fisheries, breweries, etc. It employs 60,000 workers and comprises 5,000 production
units, the majority of which small and medium scale enterprises, with total value added of TD
415 million in 1994, roughly 20 percent of total industrial value added. In 1994, exports of agro-
industrial products amounted to TD 220 million.
10.   The on-going feasibility study has three objectives. First, to determine which subsectors
will be served by the proposed center, given that some of them -- the olive oil industry, for
example -- have already set up laboratories or research centers on their own. Second, to identify
priority activities; according to industry representatives, the sector needs a wide range of
upgrading measures. The main focus is likely to be quality assurance, testing and certification,
and environmental management.  Third, to determine whether the center should take over
LCAE's laboratory for inspecting food products.






Annex 4.3
Page 1 of 2
NATIONAL METROLOGY SYSTEM
1.    The main issues related to this component are: (i) the current gap in the accreditation
and certification system in Tunisia, (ii) the alternatives for building a national measurement
system (NMS), (iii) the expected outcome of the planned study on this topic.
2.    Metrology is broadly defined as both a scientific field applying to measurement and as
activities undertaken in measurement and include: measurement theory, definition of
measurement units and their physical translation, features of measurement instruments,
measurement methods and standards, organizations dealing with measurement execution.
3.    An NMS is essential to achieve measurement credibility; it is composed of calibration
equipment, know-how, means of information, etc.; it exists in almost every country possessing
an industrial base. According to international practice an NMS is composed of relatively
standard functions allocated to a national institute/primary laboratory, certified calibration
laboratories/centers, licensed metrology services. Such a system does not yet exist in Tunisia,
where partial elements can nonetheless be found.
4.           Traceability, which ensures that each measurement can be reliably traced to a
higher reference standard, and ultimately to the central national and intemational standards, is
the most important aspect of metrology because without it there can be no equality with
measurements in other countries. Thus, it is impossible for a country to enter into
certification agreements with other countries if it cannot demonstrate traceability in all parts
of its metrology system.
5.           Establishing the traceability chain in various metrology fields is one of the
basic issues to address when introducing measurement systems in the country. This can be
achieved in two ways, which differ with respect to the costs, implementation, and
maintenance of the traceability system. If the system is established to ensure that only one or
very few pieces of equipment have to be sent abroad for each field of measurement, this
normally means a greater initial investment in equipment and training of personnel, but lower
operating costs. This level of investment is possible only for a primary laboratory working on
a scientific or high industrial calibration level. Alternatively, lower initial investment is
possible in some fields if more equipment is sent abroad for calibration, but this will eliminate
the possibility of maintaining the traceability within the country and result in higher operating
costs. This choice must be discussed thoroughly in each measurement field.
6.           Once the metrology structure has been determined, it is important that a
detailed study be made about the metrology needs of national and/or accredited laboratories



Annex 4.3
Page 2 of 2
for each field measurement. The differences between legal and industrial metrology should
also be clarified. A metrology system can be established based on either of two principles:
- a centralized system with one National Metrology Laboratory at the top, or
- a decentralized system with several specialized national metrology
laboratories.
7.           The advantage of a centralized system is that it is easy to manage, but it is very
costly to establish. The advantage of a decentralized system is that it can be based on
laboratories, equipment, and expertise that already exist in different institutions. The
disadvantages could be that coordination among the laboratories might not be smooth, and
that both equipment and training might require improvement.
8.           A study of this issue has been launched with the financial support of the
European Commission, as part of their ECU 5 million technical assistance progran for quality
promotion in Tunisia. According to its terms of reference, the study (action number 13)
should: (i) identify technical and manpower requirements to calibrate the measuring
instrument, (ii) evaluate the extent of traceability, and (iii) recommend a structure for a
Tunisian metrology organization. A call for tenders for executing of this study was issued in
February 1995. Review of bids took place in November 1995, and completion of the study is
expected in late 1996.
9.           Given that the Bank was satisfied with the terms of reference of the study and
with the technical proposal of the selected consulting firm, it has been agreed that the
investments identified through the study will be, after review by the Bank, financed by the
project. It will enable the access of Tunisian laboratories, and ultimately Tunisian industries,
to local certification capacity.



Financing Plan and Project Cost                                   Annex 4.4
Page 1 of 7
Financing Plan                                      Project Cost
Tunisian Dinars
(million)
Local     Foreign     Total                          Local      Foreign     Total
GoT/STCs          7.6                   7.6         Existing STCs        2.5         19.6    22.2
GoT/STCs/EC                    14.8    14.8         New STCs              3.6        20.8     24.4
IBRD                           37.1    37.1         Environment           0.1         2.9      3.0
Metrology             1.4         8.6     10.0
TOTAL             7.6          52.0    S9.6         TOTAL                 7.6        52.0     59.6
US Dollars
(million)
Local     Foreign     Total                          Local      Foreign     Total
GoT/STCs           7.9                   7.9        Existing STCs         2.7        20.4     23.1
GoTlSTCs/EC                     15.4    15.4        New STCs              3.7        21.7     25.5
IBRD                            38.7    38.7        Environment           0.1         3.0       31
Metrology             1.4         9.0     10.4
TOTAL              7.9          54.1   -62.1        TOTAL                 7.9        54.1      62.1
French Francs
(million)
Local     Foreign      Total                          Local      Foreign     Total
GoT/STCs          41.0                   41.0        Existing STCs       13.7        105.6    119.3
GoT/STCs/EC      -              79.8    79.8        New STCs             19.3        112.3    131.6
IBRD             -             200.0   200.0        Environment           0.7         15.5     16.2
Metrology             7.3        46.5     53.9
TOTAL             41.0         279.9   320.9         TOTAL               41.0        279.9    320.9
Note:
DD,TX: Custom duties and taxes
T.A.: Technical Assistance



Financing Plan by category of expenditure                            Annex 4.4
Page 2 of X
TD'ooOs
World Bank Financing   Equipment        Vehicles       Civil Works     T.A.         Total
Existing centers             12,624           1,530           728           465       15,347
New Centers                   7,249           1.182          5,355            -       13,786
Environment                    870                            _-                         870
Metrology                     6,090             -            1,050            -        7,140
TOTAL                        26,833           2,712          7,133          465       37,143
Govemment/Centers     Equipment        Vehicles       Civil Works    DD TX         Total
Existing centers               507              270            312        1,457         2,546
New Centers                       -             209          2,295        1,083         3,587
Environment                                     -                          130           130
Metrology                         -             -              450         910          1,360
TOTAL                           507             479          3,057        3,580         7,622
Other Donors                      | Training and TA                                Total
Existing centers                               4,265                                    4,265
New Centers                                    7,060                                    7,060
Environment                                    2,000                                    2,000
Metrology                                      1,500                                    1,500
TOTAL                                         14,825                                   14,826
Grand Total                            Total
Existing centers                              22,158
New Centers                                   24,432
Environment                                    3,000
Metrology                                     10,000
TOTAL                                        59,590
Note:
DD,TX: Custom duties and taxes
T.A.: Technical Assistance



Financing Plan by category of expenditure                              Annex 4.4
Page 3 of 7
USS million
World Bank         Equipment        Vehicles       Civil works      T.A.         Total
Existing centers               13.2              1.6            0.8          0.5          16.0
New Centers                     7.6              1.2            5.6                       14.4
Environment                     0.9              -              -                          0.9
Metrology                       6.3                             1.1                        7.4
TOTAL                           28.0             2.8             7.4         0.5          38.7
GoT/ STC               Equipment        Vehicdes       Civil Works    DD, TX         Total
Existing centers                0.5              0.3            0.3          1.5           2.7
New Centers                       -              0.2             2.4         1.1           3.7
Environment                                      -               -           0.1            0.1
Metrology                          -             -               0.5         0.9            1:4
LTOTAL                            0.5              0.5            3.2          3.7           7.9
Other Donors                         Training and TA                                 Total
Existing centers                                  4.4                                       4.4
New Centers                                       7.4                                       7.4
Environment                                       2.1                                       2.1
Metrology                                         1.6                                       1.6
TOTAL                                            15.4                                      15.4
Grand Total                             Total
Existing centers                                 23.1
New Centers                                      25.5
Environment                                       3.1
Metrology                                        10.4
TOTAL                                           62.1
Note:
DD,TX: Custom duties and taxes
TA.: Technical Assistance



Financing Plan by category of expenditure                              Annex 4.4
Page 4 of '
FF million
World Bank      Equipment         Vehicles       Civil works      T.A.          Total
Existing centers           68.0               8.2          3.9           2.5           82.6
New Centers                39.0               6.4         28.8        _                74.2
Environment                 4.7               -                       _                 4.7
Metrology                  32.8                             5.7       _                38.5
TOTAL                     144.5              14.6          38.4           2.5         200.0
GoT/ STC          Equipment         Vehices        Civil Works    DD, TX         Total
Existing centers            2.7               1.5           1.7           7.8          13.7
New Centers                                   1.1          12.4           5.8          19.3
Environment                                   -                           0.7           0.7
Metrology                                                   2.4           4.9           7.3
TOTAL                       2.7               2.6          16.5          19.3          41.0
Other Donors                    Training and TA                                  Total
Existing centers                             23.0                                       23.0
New Centers                                  38.0                                       38.0
Environment                                  10.8                                       10.8
Metrology                                     8.1                                        8.1
TOTAL                                        79.8                                       79.8
Grand Total                         Total
Existing centers                            119.3
New Centers                                 131.6
Environment                                  16.2
Metrology                                    53.9
TOTAL                                      320.9
Note:
DD,TX: Custom duties and taxes
T.A.: Technical Assistance



Annex 4.4
Page 5 of 7
Total Project Costs
TD'000
T.A &               of whitc
Equipment  Vehicles  Civil Works  Training   Subtotal    DD,TX
Existing STCs.   14.6        1.8       1.0       4.7       22.2        1.5
New STCs          8.3        1.4       7.7       7.1       24.4        1.1
Environment       1.0                            2.0       3.0         0.1
Subtotal STCs    23.9        3.2       8.7      13.8       49.6        2.7
Metrology         7.0                  1.5       1.5       10.0        0.9
GRAND TOTAL    30.9          3.2       10.2     15.3       59.6        3.6
USS million
TA &                of which
Equipment  Vehicles  Civil Works  Training   Subtotal  DD,TX
Existing STCs.   15.2        1.9       1.1       4.9       23.1        1.5
New STCs          8.7        1.4       8.0       7.4       25.5        1.1
Environment       1.0                            2.1        3.1        0.1
Subtotal STCs    24.9        3.3       9.1       14A       51.7        2.8
Metrology         7.3                   1.6      1.6       10.4        0.9
-GRAND TOTAL    32.2          3.3       10.6      15.9      62.1        3.7
FF million
TA &                of which
Equipment  Vehicles  Civil Works  Training   Subtotal    DD,TX
Existing STCs.    78.6       9.7        5.6      25.5      119.3        7.8
New STCs          44.9       7.,5      41.2      38.0      131.6        5.8
Environment       5.4                            10.8       16.2        0.7
Subtotal STCa    128.8       17.2      46.8      74.3      267.1       14.4
Metrology         37.7                  8.1       8.1       53.9        4.9
GRAND TOTAL    166.5         17.2      54.9      82.3      320.9       19.3



Annex 4.4
Page 6 of 7
Existing STCs
(TD000)
of which
Equipment Vehicles  Civil Works   TA & Training    TOTAL   DD,TX
CETIME                3,889     260          70          2,435     6,654     432
CETTEX                1,350     270        450            800      2,870     113
CNCC                   920      200          0           1,215     2,335      87
CTMCCV                1,135     170          0            280      1,585      96
TOTAL                 7,294     900         520          4,730    13,444     729



Annex 4.41
Page 7 of 7
New STCs
(TD'OOOs)
of which
Equipment Vehicles  Civil Works  TA & Training  TOTAL   DD,TX
Chemical Inds.         1,462      400       1,300       1,500       4,662    190
Wood&Fumiture          1,936      320       2,670        1,790      6,716    252
Packaging              2,207      330        850        1,860       5,247    287
Agrotndustry           2,727      340       2,830        1,910      7,807    355
TOTAL                  8,332      1390      7,650       7,060      24,432   1,083
TABLE 7                                         11/21/96






Annex 4.5
Page 1 of 2
METHODOLOGY FOR FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Obiectives
A.1.  To choose among alternatives, the most financially profitable investnent for
both the existing and new technical centers
A.2.  Maximize the positive economic impact of investments on the concerned sector
B. Stens for Financial Analvsis
B. I. Market study
estimate actual and potential demand by indusrial enterprises for
services provided by technical centers
Estimate service provision over 5 years; evaluate the proportion of services for
the state, for a group of enterprises or the sector, and for individual
enterprises, following the methdology specified in performance contracts for
the exrsting technical centers
*     perform sensitivity analysis for changes in demand in response to
changes in price for each service provided by technical centers
-     determine whether there exist private sector providers of services similar
to those offered, or planned to be offered, by technical centers, in order
to spin-off such services to private sector providers
B.2. Financial benefits of investments
*     using the infonration obtained through the step B.1., estimate the
revenue of technical center investments for the period 1996-2006
B.3. Estimate investment costs (at market nrices) and direct and indirect operations
costs
B.4. Calculate Financial Internal Rate of Retumn (FIRR)
*     the rate that makes the present value of stream of costs and benefits
equal



Annex 4.5
Page 2 of 2
C. Economic Analysis
C. 1. Market study
*     same step as B.1
C.2.  Economic beefits of investments
*     RReesimate the benefits calculated through step B.2. (at border prices for
services that are crntly provided overseas, or at prices offered by
local suppliers when such suppliers exist) and estmate the benefits of
investments for the sectr (for exmple, increase in exports, savings in
resource utiolon, productivity improveents)
C.3.  Estimate costs as in ste, B.3.. but at om,ortmuitV cost rather han market mices
C.4.  Calculate the Eomic intemai Bt of Retun
-     same step as B.4



Annex 4.6
Page I of 14
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF INVESTMENTS
CASE EXAMPLES
The purpose of the agreed financial and economic analysis methodology is to ensure
that technical centers, both existing and new, will chose the most cost effective
investment among various alternatives, while maximinng the positive impact of their
assistance on the sector.
A methodology for financial and economic analysis of each category of proposed
subproject was discussed and agreed with the Tunisun authorities. the management of
each existing technical center, as well as the General Directors of the new technical
centers during the appraisal mission (see Annex 4.6). Furthermore, the mission
reviewed the economic justification of the pipeline of proposed investments of the
existing techical centers, prepared by these centers and agreed, where necessary, on
appropriat modifications and improvements.
The main elements of the financial analysis are as follows:
a)    Market study to determine (i) what sevices are needed by private
industies that are not being offered by the private sector, and (ii) the
willingness of private enterprises to pay for these services.
b)    Technical study to determine the required investments at market prioes to
meet the demand for a given service.
c)    Calcuation of the financial rate of retun of the investment to verify the
financial viability for the institution to provide the service at an
acceptable price.
The following procedures are required for economic analysis to deermine the economic
inpact of the investment on the sector as a whole:
a)    Market study is modified to include the benefits to the sector as a whole.
b)    Technical study is modified to reesdmate investment costs at border
prices.
c)    Economic rate of return is calculated to verify economic viability of
investments.



Annex 4.6
Page 2 of 14
B. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS: CETIME's Dimensional MeIrolo=v Laboratory.
1. Mechanical and Electrical Industries:
The mechanical and electrical industry generates TD 1. 1 billion turnover per year, and
exports a third of its total production (approximately TD 365 million). It employs
approximately 46,000 people, 1.6 % of the total employed population in Tunisia.
About 800 firms are active in the sector, most of them are SME's with fewer than 50
employees each. While the sector experienced strong growth in the 1980's, in order to
realize its expected growth of 1O percent a year over the next four years, it will have to
enhance its competitiveness to meet the challenge of a free trade area with the E.U.
2. Marked Analysis for Metrology Laborutory
A survey was performed on a sample of 60 entegrises by CETIME, in collbon
with CETIM SENLIS (France), to determine the serices the entepries in the sector
require from a techical center like CETIME and how much they are willing to pay for
these services.
Pivate sector enterprises expsed an interest in receiving the following sevices from
the Dimensional Metrology Labortory. (DML):
a) Calibration and meastuing of ouMigMent
The market suvy revealed that 35 out of the 40 enteprises that are cerfifiod with ISO
9000, have expressed a clear need for this srvice. Accordingly, between 35 and 40
enterprises are expected to use the service the fit year, with an estimatd inicrease of
10 enterprises a year during the subsequent four year period.
Price sensitivity analysis was performed and the unit price for the service were set
according to the result of this analysis.
The expected yearly turnover for the first five yeas of activity is summarized below.
TD'OOO
1            2             3             4             5
Turnover         101.68        129.6        157.52        185.44        213.36



Annex 4.6
Page 3 of 14
b) Training
Based on the results of the suwvey, the center is expected to organize training seminars
on Dimensional Metrology issues as well as professional cerdfication courses for
metrolgogy personnel.
The revenue from providing this training is estimated at TD 10,000 for the first year
and 15,000 is subsequent years.
In addition, training courses can be organized upon request from enterprises in the
sector. Revenue from this activity is estimated at TD 5,000 per course. Demand for
such seminar is estimated at one firm, for a revenue of TD 5,000, for the first year and
increase by one every year thereafter.
Price sensitivity analysis was performed and prices for this service were set
accordingly. Turnover was esfimated as follows:
TD'OOO
1           2           3           4            5
Training-& Seminars.-   10            15          15          15           15
Seminars on Request      5            10          15          20           25
Turnover                 1S          25           30          35           40
c) Technical Assistance
Technical assistance is required by enterprises in the creation of their own metrology
departments. It will involve assa   in the development of the terms of reference,
acquisition and installation of equipment, mgement of metrology laboratories and
problem solving.
Price sensitivity analysis was performed and prices for these services were set up
accordingly. Tumover was estimated as follows:
TD'000
1            2.            3             4             5
Turnover           25           35             40           40             40



Annex 4.6
Page 4 of 14
Tumover for the metrology laboratory as a whole is therefore summnrized below:
TD'OOO
1           2            3            4            5
Turnover       141.68        189.6       227.52       260.44       293.36
3. Invcmen4 operating costs and altwaive
The cost of the investnent in the components highlighted by the survey and described
above are esfimated at TD 420,000, of which TD 70,000 for office fitting. Oprating
costs are summarized below:
TD'000
1         2           3            4          5
Wages & Salaies         20         26.5        36.5        36.5       36.5
Operating Costs         9.0        9.0         9.0          9.0        9.0
Total Operating Costs    29        35.5        45.5        45.5       45.5
4. Rnu"es and Beacnft
Based on the above calculations, cash flow is therefore estimated as follows:
7D'000
1          2           3           4          5
Turnover               141.7      189.6       227.5       260.4      293.4
Opeaig Costs           29.0        35.5        45.5        45.5       45.5
Cash Flow             112.7       154.1       182.0       214.9      247.9



Annex 4.6
Page 5 of 14
5. Calculation of the financial rate of return
For the Dimensional metrology Laboratory, the Financial rate of return (i) is obtained
by applying the following formula:
112.68  +   154.1  + 182.02 +  214.94 + 247.86 - 420 = 0
(l+i)    (1+i)2  (1 +i)3   (1+i)4   (1+i)5
i = 28.1%
6. Sensiivity Analysis
The intemal rate of return was recalculated on a number of altemative scenarios. The
original scenario is depicted on page 10 of this anne-x
Scenario 1: Increasing overead costs by TD 30,000 (66% in later years of
total operating costs in later years).
Results:    IRR is reduced from 28.1% in the original scenario, described
above, to 20.0%.
Conclusion:  An underesdmation of overhead costs is plausible and affect the
investment's rate of retur. However, the retuns on the
investmenets are sufficient to cover considerably higher overheads.
Scenario 2:  Reducing turnover by 30% .
Results:    IRR is reduced from 28.1% in the originil scenario, to 10.2%.
Conclusion:  The investment is, predictably, very sensitive to a reduction in
turnover. However, this scenario is not considered likely, based
on CETIME's current client base and turnover.
Scenario 3: Increasing salaries by 100%.
Results:    IRR is reduced from 28.1% in the original scenario, to 20.1%.
Conclusion:  Increasing salaries is a plausible scenario given the need to attract
talented skiiled personnel from the private sector. However, even
in the case of a doubling of wages and salaries, the return is still
sufficient to justify the investment



Annex 4.6
Page 6 of 14
Scenario 4:  a) Reducing turnover by 15%.
b) Increasing operating costs by 10%.
Results:    IRR is reduced from 28.1% in the original scenario to 18.5%.
Conclusion:  This is a more likely scenario, which however will not change the
investnent decision.
Scenario 5:  a) Reducing turnover by 15%.
b) Increasing operating costs by 10%.
c) Increasing wages by 50%
Results:    IRR is reduced from 28.1% in the original scenario to 13.7%/
Conclusion:  In the eventuality that scenario 4 occurs in conjunction with an
increase in salaries of 50%, both of which are reasonably likely
possibilities, the retun on the investment will still be high enough
to justify the investment
Scenario 6: a) Reducing turover by 20%.
b) Incrng opqting costs by 20%.
Results:    IRR is reduced from 28.1% to 14.3%.
Conclusion:  This is considered a worst case scenario. Based on CETIME's
current financial situation, and the results of the market analysis
and survey, this is an unmlikely scenario.



Annex 4.6
Page 7 of 14
C. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS: CNCC's Laboratories.
A market analysis of a 40 enterprise sample in the sector, performed with the support
of a consultant, revealed a need for investments to upgrade CNCC's laboratory
capacity. These investments will increase CNCC's capacity to performn tests to ensure
conformity with international, and especially European, regulations as well as product
quality control and environmental testing.
This investment is expected to have economic benefits for the sector as a whole. In
order to quantify these benefits, CNCC formulated the following hypotheses, based on
the results of the market analysis and survey, as well as international experience. Each
has been submitted to sensitivity analysis, details of which are shown in section 5,
below.
HYPOTHESIS # 1.
CNCC's client base is expected to evolve as follows:
1996   1997  1998   1999   2000  2001  2002   2003   2004  2005  2006
Number of           35   50    70       90   103   118   136   156   179   206
Enterprises
L. Quantifying Economiw Benefis
Reinforcing the laboratory will bring benefits to client enterprises who seek to monitor the
confonnity of the existing product to existing international regulations and standards. The cost of
performing these tests abroad are currently four times higher than performing the tests in Tumsi_
The number of companies which are expected to take advantage of this service, and its economic:
benefit to them are shown below:
1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006
Number of                10   15   20    30    35    40   46    53   61    70
Enterprises
Gains on Services         7    13   25    50    62    74   89   107   131    157
CM '000)



Annex 4.6
Page 8 of 14
Moreover, a laboratory able to perform the necessary analyses and tests will allow enterprises to
ensure the quality of their product and to minimize complaints and returns after the sale of the
product.
HYPOTHESIS # 2
The market analysis and enterprise survey indicated that the elimination of these costs is expected to
result in savings to client enterprises equivalent to 1% of their turnover. Based on the market
analysis and survey, the average turnover of potential client enterprises was estimated at TD 1
million.
The number of companies which are expected to take advantage of these services, and the economic
benefit to them, based on these hypotheses is shown below:
1996  1997  1998    1999  2000   2001  2002   2003   2004   2005   2006
Number of                 35    50      70    90    103   118    136    156    179    206
Enterprises
Gains on Services        350   500    700   900   1030  1180   1360   1560   1790   2060
(TD'000)
Therefore, the stream of financial and economic benefits, including the benefits to entrises who
could have access to CNCC tests rather than overseas tests, is shown below:
TD'OOOs
1996  1997  1998 .1999  2000   2001   2002   2003   2004  2005  2006
Financial Benefits    38    42    S0    65    86   99    113    130    150   174   202
Economic           38   399   563   790  1036   1191   1367   1579   1817  1995  2419
Benefits
2. Investment costs
Investment prices at border prices have been estimated at 260,000 TD.



Annex 4.6
Page 9 of 14
3. Operating costs
TD'OOOs
1996  1997  1998   1999   2000  2001   2002   2003   2004  2005  2006
At narket prices       83    83    83        83     83    87       87      87      87    87    87
At border prices      106   106   106    106    106   111    111    111    111   111   111
Taking account of economic rettrns from the sector as a whole, investment performance would
reflect the following:
TD'OOOs
1996   1997  1998   1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004   2005   2006
Turnover             38    399   563    790  1036   1191  1367  1579   1817   1995   2419
Opeating Costs      106    106   106    106   106   111   111   111   111    111 i           1
Net Cash Flow        -68    293   4S7    684   930   1080  1256  1468   1706   1834   2308
4. Calculation of the economJc rate of rdurn
For CNCC's Laboratory, the economic rate of retun (i) is obtained by applying the
following fozmula:
-68.8     +     293  +        457      +    684 +          930   .... 230   - 260=0
(I+i)           (1 +i)2      (+j)3 (il +i)              (  +i)5    (14ii)"
i - 89.7   %



Annex 4.6
Page 10 of 14
S. Sensitivity Analysis
The internal rate of return was recalculated based on a number of altermative scenarios. The
original scenario is depicted in page 10 of this annex.  These alternative scenarios were
developed by changing the hypotheses listed above, as follows:
Scenario 1:  Reducing the client base by 50 and 75 percent
Results:    IRR is reduced from 89.7% in the original scenario, described above, to
59.8% and 39.9%, respectively.
Conclusion:  CNCC's client base estimate was based on the assumption that it would
grow by 15% yearly over 12 years. Given, CNCC's low starting point,
this assumption is reasonable. However, even with a considerable lower
client base estimates over 12 years, the return on he investment re
high enough to justify the investmeni. .
Scenario 2:  Reducing the average finm's tutmover esfimate (from TD 1 million) by
25, 50, and 75 pecent.
Results:     IRR is reduccd from 89.7%o in the original scenario, to 75.8%; 59.8%,
and 39.9%o, respectively.
Conclusion:   The original scenario assumes that firms with higher tuover will use
tiese CNCC services. However, even if the assumption is revised to
include firms with a lower urnover, the return renains high enough to
justify the investment
Scenario 3:  Reducing efficiency gain estmates from 1 percent of average firm's
tunover to 0.50, 0.25, and 0.10 percent
Results:     IRR is reduced from 89.7%o in the original scenario, to 59.8 %, 39.90/o,
and 23.8%, respectively.
Conclusion:   Estimation of the efficiency gain is taken from the market survey
perfomed by CNCC on a 40 enterprise sample (10% of sector's
enterprises). The potential for overestimation of the benefits is limited.
However, even in the case of drastic reduction in efficiency gains, the
IRR remains high enough to justify the investment



Annex 4.6
Page I I of 14
Scenario 4:  Increasing Operating costs by 15% and 75%.
Results:     IRR is reduced from 89.7%  in the original scenario to 86.8% and 76%
respectively.
Conclusion:   An increase in opeating costs does not significantly affect the
investennt returns.
Scenario 5:  a) Reducing the average firm's turnover estimate by 75%,
b) Increasing operating costs by 15%,
c) Decreasing client base by 50%.
Results:     IRR is reduced from 89.7% in the original scenario to 23.9%.
Conclusion:   This is a conservative scenario. Even in this case, the expected return
on investment still justifies the investment.
Scenario 6:  a) Reducing client base by 75%,
b) Reducing the average firm's turnover esfimate by 75%,
c) Reducing the average firm's efficiency gains to 0.10% of turnover.
Results:     IRR is reduced from 89.7% in the original scenario, to 11.2%.
Conclusion:   This is a worst case scenario. Based on the market analysis, and the
enterprise survey performed by CNCC, as well as the outside
consultant's study and conclusions, this scenario is highly unlikely.



Financial Analysis                                             Annex 4.6
CETIME Metrology Laboratory                                        Page 12 of 14
(Original Scenario)
Technical                           Wages &  Operations and  Operating    Net
Year  Calibration   Training    Assistance    Turnover   Investment   Salaries   Mairnenance    costs    Cashflow
0                                                       420                                            -420
1      101.68       15          25         141.68                   20           9           29       112.68
2       129.6       25          35          189.6                   26.5         9          35.5       154.1
3      157.52       30          40         227.52                   36.5         9          45.5      182.02
4      185.44       35          40         260.44                   36.5         9          45.5      214.94
5      213.36       40          40         293.36                   36.5         9          45.5      247.86
IRR       28.1%



Economic Analysis                                                   Annex 4.6
CNCC Laboratory                                                 Paee 13 of 14
(Origmal Scenario)
Savings on  CNCC             Total
YEAR    Monwrng  client  Gain Cl.  Economic   Financial                Fixed    OperaLing  Nct Cash    IRR
COSts            (2)      BenefiLs    Benefits  Turnover  Investment    costs   Flow    Calculations
0                                                                    -260                           -260
1996                                              38        38                    106      -68        -68
1997        7       35      350       357         42       399                    106      293        293
1998       13       50      500       513         50       563                    106      457        457
1999       25       70      700       725         65       790                    106      684        684
2000       50       90      900       950         86       1036                   106      930        930
2001       62       103    1030       1092        99       1191                   III      1080       1080
2002       74       118    1180       1254        113      1367                   111      1256       1256
2003       89       136    1360       1449        130      1579                   111      1468       1468
2004       107      156    1560       1667        150      1817                   111      1706       1706
2005       131      179    1790       1921        174      2095                   11I      1984       1984
2006       157      206    2060       2217        202      2419                   111      2308       2308
IRR       89.7%



Sensitivity Analysis: Overview                                Annex 4.6
Page 14 of 14
CETIME Laboratory: Sensitivity Analysis
HYPOTHESIS                          IRR
Original scenario    See Page 12                                             28.8%
Altemative scenario 1    Overhead Increase of TD 30,000                      20.0%
Altemative Scenano 2    Reducing Tumover by 30%                              10.2%
Altemative Scenario 3    Increase salaries by 200%                           20.1%
Aftemative scenano 4    a)Reducing Tumover by 15%                            18.5%
________________b)lncreasing operating costs. by 10%                 ____
a) Reducing Tumover by 15%
Altemative scenario 5    b)lncreasing Operating costs by 10%                 13.7%/
c) Increasing wages by 50%
Altemative scenario 6    a) Reducing Turnover by 20%                         14.3%
________________b)increasing Operating costs by 20%
CNCC Laboratory: Sensitivity Analysis
HYPOTHESIS                                                iRR
Original scenario     See Page 13                                                                   39.7%
EAlternative Scenanio 1.
Reducing client base                                 by 50%                   59.9%
by 75%                  39.9%
Alterative scenano 2    Reducing average tumover estimate                  by 25%                   75.8%
by 50%                   59.8%
by 75%                   39.9%
Alternatve scenario 3    Reducing efficiency gain estimates                to .50%                   59.8%
to .25%                  39.9%
_________________   _ ____________________________________________  by   .10%     23.8%
Alternative scenario 4    Increasing Operatng costs                        by 15%                    866.8
by 75%                   76.0%
Altemative scenano 5    a) Reducing the average firm's tumover estimate by 75%
b) Increasing operating costs by 15%                                           23.9%
c) Decreasing client base by 50%
Altemative scenano 6    a) Reducing the average firm's tumover estimate by 40%
b) Increasing operating costs by 25%                                           61.9%
Altemative scenano 7    a) Reducing client base by 75%
b) Reducing average firm's estimate by 75 %                                    11.2%
c) Reducing the average fifmfs gains to .110  of tumover



Annex 5.1
Page 1 of 6
PERFORMANCE MONITORING INDICATORS
The Project's impact, both in tms of individual STCs and their impact on the
industrial sector, specifically as regards the competitiveness upgrading process, will be
monitored. The tentative target values for project outut indicators (see below) have been
developed, and will be finalized after discussions between the authonties and the STCs to
fialize the PPCs. The project outcome/impact indicators descibed in this annex have been
agreed. The baseline and target values for these indicators will be determined following, and
on the basis of, the first firm-level survey (see below), which will be carried out no later than
December 31, 1996.
A. Poject Output Indicators
These indicators measure the quantity and quaity of services that will be provided
thugh the project The outut quantity indicators are mainly concerned with te execution of
progam and performance contracts (PPCs). In order to monitor the execution of the PPCs, a
number of common indicators have been agreed upon for each technical center. These indica
are as follows:
(i)  PFinacil Autonomy Raio, defined as the ratio of Category (a) revenues (par.
2.18) to total operating ependiture. This ratio excludes rent paid by the center
and interest expenses.
(u)   Techncal Stfrf Ratio, defined as the  tio of tecical peonnel to total staff of
the technical center.
(iii)  Pwuiviy Ratio, defined as th rato of the number of days spent by opeaional
pesonnel on evenue-earning actvities (Categories (a) and (b)) to total number
of workdays.
(iv)  Market Pnetwmtion Raio, defined as the ratio of the number of enterprises using
the sevices of the technical centers, to the total number of enterprises in the
sectr concerned.
The baseine and target values for the first three selected indicators are specified
in the PPCs and arecsummarized in Tables 5.2 (A) to 5.2 (C), for the eisting STCs. In most
cases, the taret values are defined for eah year; in other cases, only one targt value (for the
last year) has been idendfied. The values for the Market Pentrxion Rao will be spefied
aftr the first firm-level survey (see below).



Annex 5.1
Page 2 of 6
The Project's output quality indicators will be compiled through firm-level surveys
of technical center clients and other enterprises in the concerned sectors. Agreement was
reached at appraisal that annual surveys of industrial enterprises would be undertaken to solicit
the opinion of these enterprises regarding the quality of services offered by technical centers,
as wel as the awareness of the existence of these centers, in the case of enterprises that have
not used the services of these centers. The surveys would also be used to gather additional
information to monitor project impact. The first survey will be carried out no later than
Decmber 31, 1996; the second survey will be carried out by March 31, 1998, with other
surveys following every two years after this date.
Agreements have been reached on the modality and execution of the firm-level
survey. Specifically, the firm-level survey will be based on stratified random sampling to: (a)
represent the entire sector; (b) cover firms of different sizes and ownership structures; and (c)
answer specific questions on the relevance and quality of services provided by the existing and
new technical centers. The first survey will provide data to compile the baseline values for
project outcome/impact indicators; and the values for target indicators will be defined on that
basis. The survey instruments will be designed to: (a) be completed in a single one hour
interview, to ensure a high response rate; and (b) facilitate cross-firm and cross-sector
comparison through uniform 'core' questions.
The firm-level survey will be conducted every two years, and will be managed
by the PrOject Coordination Unit (PCU), which may subcontract the conduct of the survey to
other entities. These entities will develop the questionnaire which will be submitted to the PCU
and the Bank for approval.
The survey will encompass between 30 and 40 entrprises for each STC, with the
foolowing composition:
(a)   20% of the STC's clients, with a maximum of 20 and a minimum of 10
enterprises:
half of these enterprises will be the STC's largest clients in terms of the
STC's turnover; the remaunder would be chosen at random among the
STC's other clients.
20% of the sample will be maintained from one survey to the next.
These enterpnses will respond to both the opinion survey and a quantitative
questionnaire to obtain data on the evolution of value added, productivity,
exports, and investments, which will be used to formulate the four project
outcomelimpact indicators below. Comparable sector-level data will be obtained
from the Annual Development Report published by the Ministry of Economic
Development.



Annex 5.1
Page 3 of 6
The first finn-level survey will of course only cover the existing STCs.
(b)   10 enterprises that have only limited contact (e.g., seminars, etc.) with the STC.
(c)   10 enterprises that have never used the services of the STC.
In this manner, between 240 and 320 enterprises (for all STCs) are expected to be
muvyed every two years (except for the first survey which is likely to cover 160 to 200
enteprises). The human resources required for the survey are estimated at 10O-120 days,
costing about TD20,000 - 24,000.
B. Project OutcomeIXmpact Indicators
Tbe above survey would also be used to provide data to construct the followmng
additional indicators:
(v)   Evolution of value added by the enteprises using the services of technical
centers, in rlation to the evolution of sectoral value added.
(vi)  Evolution of producnviy by the enterpises using the serv      of technical
centers, in relation to the evolution of sectoral productivity.
(vii)  Evolution of aporu by the entrpris  using fte services of technical centers, in
relation to the evolution of sectorl exports.
(viii) Evolution of imes#nen by the enteprises using the services of technical centers,
in reation to the evolution of sectoral investment.



Baseline and target values for performance indicators                     Annex 5.1
Page 4 of 6
TABLE 5.2 (A): Financial Autonomy
TD'OOO
CETITME                             1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   2000   2001
Totl Operating Expenditures         1254    1610    1924    2238    2557   2843   3155
Reens from catgory A                 840      998    1316    1645    1986   2333   2686
Fiancial Autonomy Ratio             51%      62%      68%      74%     78%    82%  7-X5%
CE77m                               1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
Toal Operating Expenditubs          1000    1400    1S60    1650    1670
Revenues from categoy A              160      280     550      650      700
Fknancil Auvtonomy Ratio            16%      20%      35%     39%    .42%.
CNCC                                1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   200
Total Operafing Expendtus                    1650    1670    1690    1800   1840
PRevne frm category A                         332      371     431      492    570
Financial Autonomy Ratio                     20%      22%      26%     27%    31%
CTMCCV                              1995    1996    1997    1998    1i99
Totl Operabng Expenditures
Roenues from categofy A
Finarcial Autonomy Rato              13%                               50%



Baseline and target values for performance indicators                     Annex 5.1
Page 5 cf 6
TABLE 5.2 (B): Technical Staff Ratio
CE77ME                1995    1996      1997      1998      1999    2000   2001
Technical Staff Ratio  55%     57%       59%      61%       63%      66%    70%
CETTEX                1995    1996      1997      1998
Technical Staff Ratio  71%     76%       78%      79%
CNCC                   1995    1996     1997      1998      1999    2000   2001    2002
Technical Staff Ratio           25%                                                  60%
CTMCCV                 1995    1996      1997     1998      1999
Technical Staff Ratio  31%                                   45%



Baseline and target values for Performance Indicators                  Annex 5.1
Page 6 of 6
TABLE 5.2 (C): Productivity Ratio
CETIME                1995     1996   1997   1998   1999    2000   2001
Produchvty Rato       40%      43%    4a%    50%    53%       58%   60%
CETTEX         1995    1996    1997   1998
Productvty Ratio    86%                   87.3%
CNCC                  1995    1998   1997   1998   1999    2000   2001   2002
Productvky Ratio-              44%        -                           - --
CTMCCV                1995     1996   1997   1998   1999
Produeivity Ratio     55%                            -75%



Annex 5.2
Page l of2
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
Existing Technical Centers
CETIME:
Diagnostic Study for CETIME.
Draft Program and Performance Contract.
Study of investment requirements for electrical, mechanical and plastic laboratories.
Market study for accreditation of electrical, mechanical and plastic laboratories.
Methodological note on above market study.
Economic analysis of laboratory investments.
Market study of microelectronics center.
Market study for the laboratory of dimensional metrology.
Economic analysis of mechanical laboratory.
Economic benefits analysis of the trial laboratories.
C.ETTEX:
Diagnostic study for CETTEX.
Draft program and performance contract.
Market study of textile/clothing sector's needs.
Market stud and economic analysis for Training center.
CNCC:
Diagnostic study for CNCC.
Draft program and performance contract.
Financial analysis of CNCC's investment requirements.
Economic analysis of CNCC's investment requirements.
CTMCCIV
Diagnostic study for CTMCCV
Draft program and performance contract.
Economic and Financial Analysis for CTMCCV's investments.



Annex 5.2
Page 2 of 2
Proposed New Centers
Wrapping and packaging STC:
Feasibility study, including market study and preliminary financial and economic benefits
analysis.
Explanatory note regarding financial and economic benefits analysis hypotheses and
assumptions.
Other Centers:
Terms of reference for feasibility study.
Metrology component
Terms of reference for EC- funded metrology study.



I



Tunisia 15579-TUN
III 11111    l 1111111IJI1     I
US$ 15



