Report No. PIC2128
Project Name                    Tunisia-Private Industry Support (&+)
Infrastructure Upgrading Project
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           Industry
Project ID                       TNPA40208
Borrower                         Republic of Tunisia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Industry (MOI)
Contact: Mr. Mohamed Fadhel Zerelli
Director General for Industry, MOI
Tel: 216.1.890.319/892.313
Fax: 216.1.285.947/792.420
Date This Update Prepared        February 1996
Date Initial PID                 May 1995
Project Appraisal Date           February 1996
Project Board Date               June 1996
Background and PSD strategy
1.      Tunisia is at a critical point in its economic development,
and both Government (GoT) and private sector are keenly aware of
it. Economic performance, helped by private sector exports in
textiles and agro-industry, has improved following an extensive
reform program over the last eight years, which has gone far to
liberalize the economy and orient it outward by removing
restrictions and administrative controls over external trade,
prices and credit. In line with this, the public sector has given
way to the private sector in a wide range of activities.
2.      However, international experience has shown that, while
policy reform is a necessary condition for international
competitiveness, it does not by itself guarantee the ability to
compete in global markets. The spread of new technologies, even in
traditional labor-intensive sectors such as textiles and garments,
is reducing the share of labor in total costs and putting a premium
on quality, speed, and reliability of delivery and services. Thus,
unless policy reforms are supported by measures aimed at enhancing
exporters' capacity to produce goods that conform to international
norms for price and quality, sustainable export and economic growth
may not materialize in Tunisia.
3.      While Tunisia has managed to diversify its economy and
acquire some new comparative advantages, competitors (such as
Turkey, Thailand and Eastern European countries) have been more
successful in strengthening their traditional comparative
advantages in labor-intensive products, while also exporting higher
value-added products. Accordingly, Tunisia's performance is
endangered by a lack of diversification of exports and by the lack



of international competitiveness of many industrial enterprises
established under high protective barriers.
4.      GoT and private sector agree that it is necessary to pursue
integration with the world economy and, in particular, the European
Union (EU). To this end, it has recently initialed a free trade
agreement (FTA) with the EU, involving full trade liberalization
over a 12 year period starting in 1997. The scope and pace of
trade liberalization are now defined clearly by the free trade
agreement between Tunisia and the EU, as well as by Tunisia's
recent accession to the GATT/WTO.
5.      GoT is fully aware of the necessity of meeting the challenge
of such a free trade zone and subsequent cooperation agreement.
Since it is seeking to manage and keep to a minimum the disruption
and costs which the FTA is expected to cause in the short term, in
particular to the industrial fabric, GoT has put in place a program
(Programme de Mise a Niveau -- PMN) to upgrade the competitiveness
of industrial enterprises to international standards. The European
Commission (EC) is playing a leading role in supporting the
Tunisian upgrading process, with a program for enhancing
competitiveness under preparation, as well as the establishment of
a Euro-Tunisian business center (Euro-Tunisie Entreprises - ETE).
Critical to the mise a niveau process is the strengthening and
upgrading of Tunisia's support infrastructure for industry, to make
it more efficient and responsive to the needs of private
enterprises; GoT has requested Bank support for this effort.
6.      The Bank's PSD strategy in the short-term is to work in
parallel on two fronts:
(a)     support further reform in legal and regulatory
frameworks to foster further private sector
development, through the proposed Economic
Competitiveness Adjustment Loan currently under
preparation; and
(b)     support GoT's efforts to upgrade private firms'
competitiveness, through this proposed project, which
will parallel finance the EC's program for enhancing
competitiveness, and possible subsequent operations.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
7.      The recent PSA and other ESW identify the main issues to be
addressed to make the economy more competitive. They respond to
the priorities of GoT, which regards the Bank as a valuable source
of policy advice and technical analysis. Moreover, at GoT request
and in preparation for Bank support for PSD, the Bank has been
executing agent for a set of studies, financed by a Japanese grant,
reviewing the needs to upgrade enterprises and strengthen support
agencies. The Project is being developed in close cooperation with
the EC, as a component of the EC's Programme for Enhancing
Competitiveness (PEC), reinforcing the two institutions'
partnership for development.
-2-



The PMN and the EC Programme for Enhancing Competitiveness
8.      GoT has put in place the PMN to assist self-selecting
(volunteering) viable enterprises to upgrade to international
standards. GoT has established a quadripartite Steering Committee
(SC), including representatives of relevant ministries as well as
representatives of the financial and enterprise sectors and a
representative of the labor union, and chaired by the Minister of
Industry, to oversee its PMN. A coordinating entity, the Bureau de
Mise a Niveau (BMN) has also been set up, reporting to the Cabinet
of the Minister of Industry and serving as technical secretariat to
the SC, to guide firms seeking competitiveness upgrading through
the process.
9.      A diagnostic study, covering inter alia market potential,
management capability, technical performance and know-how, and
financial strength as well as competitiveness, will be prepared by
specialist consultants for each firm; where actual or achievable
competitiveness is shown, preparation of a competitiveness
upgrading plan (CUP) would follow, covering areas such as quality,
productivity, environmental issues, recapitalization, organization
and management, as well as physical investments. The firm will
implement this plan with support and appropriate technical
assistance from various primarily private sector sources, whether
domestic or foreign, coordinated through the BMN. Access to
financing under the PMN is conditioned on implementation by the
firm of the agreed CUP. The sectoral technical centers (STCs) are
viewed as essential players in the program, both directly as
providers of services to firms, and as facilitators of access to
specialized foreign assistance.
10.     The European Commission (EC) is playing a leading role in
supporting the upgrading process, with a Programme for Enhancing
Competitiveness (PEC) under preparation, to support the development
of venture capital, provide technical assistance to the process,
and provide training to the banking system. The EC is also putting
in place a Euro-Tunisian business center (ETE), which will
undertake diagnoses of firms and provide them with appropriate
technical assistance, as well as promote joint ventures between
Tunisian and European firms.
11.     The PEC comprises the following components:    (a) fostering
the development of the Tunisian capital market, through the
provision of venture capital, through the EIB; (b) support to the
Bureau de Mise a Niveau (BMN), in particular through: (i) the
organization of study tours for Tunisian decision makers and of
workshops in Tunisia on themes relating to the mise a niveau
process; and (ii) the provision of direct technical assistance to
the BMN. The EC has requested Bank support for and participation
in part (i) of this component; (c) a broad training program for
the banking system, addressing each bank's individual needs as well
as areas of general concern; (d) financing for a program manager
to cordinate EC involvement in PSD issues in Tunisia; and (e) the
Bank project to upgrade the private industry support
infrastructure. The Bank and EC would provide parallel financing
-3 -



through their respective operations; the EC may partly finance the
TA and training component of the Project.
12.     The objective of the proposed Project is to put in place an
efficient and market-responsive system of support agencies,
providing appropriate assistance to the private sector, consisting
mainly of small and medium enterprises (SMEs), and in particular to
firms seeking to become internationally competitive. The Project
will be one component of the EC program aimed at supporting
Tunisian efforts, through the PMN, to improve the international
competitiveness of viable private sector enterprises.
13.     The Project will provide finance, and possibly technical
assistance, to support: (i) the institutional reform and
strengthening of existing industrial support agencies, namely the
four existing sectoral technical centers; (ii) the creation of
additional technical centers; (iii) the establishment of the
national metrology system; and (iv) the institutional reform and
strengthening of the export promotion center, CEPEX.
14.     Assistance to Existing Industrial Support Agencies.    The
Project will provide finance to support the reform of the four
sectoral technical centers (STCs) providing assistance to the
industrial sector (CETTEX -- textiles, CETIME -- engineering and
electrical industries, CNCC -- leather and shoes, and CTMCCV --
building materials, ceramics and glass). The Project will help
develop Tunisian capacity to provide specialized advice to
industry, often through transfer of know-how from foreign
consultants, and sustain the impetus received from the recent
reform of their Boards, three-quarters of the members of which are
now from the private sector.
15.     New Sectoral Technical Centers.   The establishment of new
STCs will also be assisted. It is currently proposed that four new
STCs be established: for wood and furniture, for chemical
industries, for wrapping and packaging, and for food processing
industries. Feasibility studies are currently underway for these
new STCs, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, the
results of which are expected by mid-July 1996. New STCs will be
established along similar lines to the reformed existing STCs.
16.     Metrology. In addition, an accreditation system is being set
up for product certification (to ISO 9000 standards, etc.). Most
STCs are ready to perform product certification; they will be
involved in this activity as well as in the related activities of
the national metrology system (NMS) which is also to be
established. The proposed NMS is currently being defined after
which specific needs for industrial metrology can be defined. The
Project will finance equipment for the NMS, mainly for industrial
metrology, in addition to the metrology investments undertaken by
individual STCs to meet their sectors' needs. The inclusion of
this component in the project along with the STCs will help ensure
the availability to SMIs of needed services in the areas of quality
assurance and product certification.
- 4-



17.     CEPEX.  The Project will provide financial assistance to
support the reform of the export promotion center (CEPEX). The
issues, and therefore the solutions, with respect to CEPEX are
similar to those regarding the existing STCs; the main differences
concern the fact that CEPEX serves all exporters or potential
exporters, whether industrial or not, and performs more services
for GoT.
Project Cost, Financing and Implementation
18.     The total estimated project cost is some US$53 million
equivalent, with direct and indirect foreign exchange costs
accounting for about 77 percent of total costs; the Bank loan
would finance around 47 to 56 percent of total project costs
(US$25-30 million equivalent). Cofinancing for the Project is
expected. A project implementation unit (PIU) will be established
in the Ministry of Industry, supervised by a Project Director, to
administer the project on behalf of GoT.
Environmental Aspects
19.     In accordance with O.D. 4.01, this project has been
classified in category "B". Please see attached Environmental
Annex.
Lessons of Bank Experience
20.     Design of the project reflects conclusions of a review of
completed projects in industrial technology development (TD),
namely: (a) the impact of a technology project on TD hinges on the
existence of a clearly defined strategy, where TD is seen as part
of the overall process of industrialization; (b) the framework of
incentives is a crucial determinant of success; (c) the
strengthening of industrial technology capabilities may need
intervention to promote research and development activities;
(d) involvement in TD projects has resulted not only in the
development of institutions and financing mechanisms but in the
reform of technology policy; (e) successful development of
institutions and mechanisms has hinged on the creation of solid
management, with administrative and monitoring capabilities built-
in to the technology functions; (f) the Bank's role has been
critical when the success of the project depends on a sustained
commitment in areas where financial returns are difficult to
quantify or limited in the short term; and (g) technology policy
as it relates to industry has a major role in determining
competitiveness and productivity, and cannot be seen in isolation
from macro-economic, trade, industrial and regulatory policies.
Risks
21.     There is a risk that the institutional reform of the existing
STCs and CEPEX may not be fully implemented, allowing the STCs and
CEPEX to continue past practices rather than reorient their
activities clearly toward satisfying the expressed needs of private
sector firms. The consultation process underway with key
- 5 -



representatives of the concerned sectors (who make up the majority
of the boards of the STCs and half of CEPEX's board), the STCs and
CEPEX, and GoT during the preparation of the performance contracts
should mitigate this risk. Also, GoT is now fully convinced of the
need for, and soundness of, the proposed reform.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 25, 1997.
- 6 -



Annex
Environmental Annex
Upgrading the competitiveness of private industrial
enterprises to international standards requires a review not only
of the financial soundness of these enterprises and their support
institutions but also of their technological, environmental, and
management performance. This includes in particular an assessment
of: the production process; the quality control system; the
consumption and use of raw material, water, and energy; the
production and management of waste; and the degree of compliance
with environmental and quality requirements and standards (both
national and international). The support institutions (the STCs)
should be prepared to provide the best example as well as the best
service and advice in these areas.
Training on environmental issues, institutional strengthening
and other enhancement/mitigation measures will be an integral part
of the technical assistance and investment support program to STCs
and other beneficiary agencies under the project. The establishment
of a national metrology system will be also supported under the
project. The project will have an overall environmental positive
impact by enhancing STCs' environmental capacity and performance
and by helping improve compliance of private industrial firms
assisted by the STCs with relevant Tunisian and international
environmental requirements and standards.
-7-



