Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                   LOAN NUMBER 4037 TUN
                             Loan Agreement
             (Industry Support Institutions Upgrading Project)
                                between
                           REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                                   and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                              Dated July 2, 1996
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4037 TUN
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 1996, between the REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA (the
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project;
     (B)  the Bank has received a letter dated May 2, 1996, from the
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies
designed to support the upgrading of viable private sector industrial
enterprises to international standards (hereinafter called the Program)
and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the
Program;
     (C)  the Borrower intends to contract from other external sources
of funds (the Cofinanciers) one or more loans (the Cofinanciers Loans)
and one or more grants (the Cofinanciers Grants) in an aggregate amount
equivalent to sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000) to assist in
financing part of the cost of the Project on the terms and conditions
set forth in loan agreements (the Cofinanciers Loan Agreements) and in
grant agreements (the Cofinanciers Grant Agreements) to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Cofinanciers; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                            General Conditions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "ANPE" means the Borrower's Agence Nationale pour la
Protection de l'Environnement, established and operating pursuant to
the Borrower's Law No. 88-91 dated August 2, 1988, and its implemen-
tation Decree No. 88-1784, as the same may be amended from time to
time;
     (b)  "Basic Legislation" means, collectively, the Borrower's Law
No. 94-123 dated November 28, 1994, setting forth the legal framework
for technical centers operating in the Borrower's industrial sector,
and its implementation Decree No. 95-439 dated March 13, 1995;
     (c)  "By-Laws" means, individually, the By-Laws (statut) enacted
or to be enacted pursuant to the provisions of the Basic Legislation
to govern the administrative and financial organization of a STC (as
hereinafter defined);
     (d)  "Category" means a category of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and the term "Categories" means more
than one Category collectively;
     (e)  "Central Bank" means the Central Bank of Tunisia (Banque
Centrale de Tunisie) established and operating pursuant to the
Borrower's Law No. 58-90 dated September 19, 1958, as the same may be
amended from time to time;
     (f)  "CETIME" means the Borrower's Centre Technique des Industries
M caniques et Electriques, a juridical person of public economic
interest (personne morale d'intrt conomique public) established and
operating as a STC (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to the Basic
Legislation, or any successor thereto;
     (g)  "CETTEX" means the Borrower's Centre Technique du Textile,
a juridical person of public economic interest (personne morale d'
intrt conomique public) established and operating as a STC (as here-
inafter defined) pursuant to the Basic Legislation, or any successor
thereto;
     (h)  "CNCC" means the Borrower's Centre National du Cuir et de
la Chaussure, a juridical person of public economic interest (personne
morale d'intrt conomique public) established and operating as a STC
(as hereinafter defined) pursuant to the Basic Legislation, or any
successor thereto;
     (i)  "CTMCCV" means the Borrower's Centre Technique des Materiaux
de Construction, Cramique et Verre, a juridical person of public
economic interest (personne morale d'intrt conomique public)
established and operating as a STC (as hereinafter defined) pursuant
to the Basic Legislation, or any successor thereto;
     (j)  "DGI" means the Direction Gnrale de l'Industrie within the MI
(as hereinafter defined), established and operating pursuant to
Articles 27 and 31 through 34 of the Borrower's Decree No. 95-917 dated
May 22, 1995;
Page  3
     (k)  "Financing" means a loan or a grant made or proposed to be
made by the Borrower, through the MI (as hereinafter defined) and the
MF (as hereinafter defined), out of the proceeds of the Loan to a STC
(as hereinafter defined) for the purposes of carrying out an Investment
Project (as hereinafter defined);
     (l)  "Financing Agreement" means a financing agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower, through the MI (as hereinafter
defined) and the MF (as hereinafter defined), and a STC (as hereinafter
defined) pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same
may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules
to the Financing Agreement;
     (m)  "Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period corresponding
to any of the Borrower's fiscal years, which period commences on January
1 and ends on December 31 in each calendar year;
     (n)  "free-limit Financing" means a Financing which qualifies as a
free-limit Financing pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 (b) of
Section B of Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
     (o)  "French Franc" and "FRF" means each the lawful currency of
the Republic of France;
     (p)  "Investment Project" means a specific development project
which, pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement,
has been approved by the Bank to be carried out by a STC under Part A
of the Project utilizing the proceeds of a Financing, to: (i)
construct, upgrade, rehabilitate and maintain the infrastructure of
buildings, including laboratories; (ii) acquire laboratory, com-
puterized office, testing, certification and other equipment and
vehicles necessary to complement the services rendered by a STC,
including the improvement of the health and environment impact of
the STC's operations; and (iii) expand and supplement sectoral and
technological documentation and pedagogical material for training
purposes;
     (q)  "Investment Study" means an investment study applying the
agreed methodology for financial and economic analysis referred to in
paragraphs 2 (a) and 2 (c) of Section B of Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
     (r)  "MF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance (Ministre des
Finances), established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's
Decrees No. 75-316 dated May 30, 1975, No. 91-556 dated April 23,
1991, and No. 95-522 dated March 22, 1995;
     (s)  "MI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Industry (Ministre de
l'Industrie), established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's
Decrees No. 95-916 and No. 95-917 dated May 22, 1995;
     (t)  "NMS" means the National Metrology System (systme national
de metrologie) to be established by the MI or any other institution
so charged, identified in the conclusions of the study referred to
in Section A.4 of Schedule 5 of this Agreement;
     (u)  "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit (Unit de Suivi du
Projet) to be established and maintained within the MI pursuant to
the provisions of Section A.2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
     (v)  "Performance Indicators" means the agreed performance
indicators to be utilized under the Project to measure the degree to
which the Project objectives are being achieved, as the same may be
updated and supplemented from time to time in accordance with the
provisions of Sections A.2 (b) and B (b) of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement;
     (w)  "Program and Performance Contract" means a program and
performance contract (contrat de programme et de performance) con-
cluded or to be concluded between the MI and a STC (as hereinafter
defined), setting forth reciprocal undertakings designed to clarify
the role of each party and ensure that the actions of each STC are
consistent and directed towards meeting the needs of private enter-
Page  4
prises;
     (x)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (y)  "STC" means a sectoral technical center created and operating
in the industrial sector pursuant to the provisions of the Basic
Legislation to which the Borrower proposes to make or has made avail-
able a Financing; and such term includes, inter alia, CETIME, CETTEX,
CNCC and CTMCCV collectively or individually.
                              ARTICLE II
                               The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount
equal to two hundred million French Francs (FRF200,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in French Francs a special deposit account in its Central Bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
rate for each Interest Period equal to PIBOR Base Rate plus PIBOR Total
Spread.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
               including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding,
               the first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter,
               and after the initial period, each period from and
               including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding
               the next following Interest Payment Date.
         (ii)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
        (iii)  "PIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the
               Paris interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in
               French Francs for value the first day of such Interest
               Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period,
               for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or
               next preceding the first day of such Interest Period),
               as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as
               a percentage per annum.
         (iv)  "PIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:
               (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or
               plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest
               Period, below (or above) the Paris interbank offered
               rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits,
Page  5
               in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or
               portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single
               currency loans or portions thereof made by it that
               include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank
               and expressed as a percentage per annum.
     (c)  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of PIBOR Base Rate and
PIBOR Total Spread for Interest Period, promptly upon the determination
thereof.
     (d)  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section
2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers
as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the
interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice
to the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on
the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank
during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said
modification shall not apply to the Loan.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable March
15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
                               ARTICLE III
                        Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall: (i) carry out
Part A of the Project through the MI with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, engineering,
environmental, industrial and technical practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose; and (ii) carry out or cause to be carried
out Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, engineering,
environmental, industrial and technical practices and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. (a) For the purposes of carrying out Part A of the
Project, the Borrower shall, through the MI and the MF, relend or make
available, as the case may be, to the STCs the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) (a), (2) (a) (i), (2)
(b) and 3 under Financing Agreements to be entered into between the
Borrower and each STC on the basis of the criteria and in accordance
with terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank,
which shall include, without limitation, those set forth in Schedule
6 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall to exercise its rights in relation to
each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank; (ii) comply with its obligations under
this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
     Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods, works and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Page  6
     Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of
the Project; and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.
                                  ARTICLE IV
                              Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section, including those for the Special
               Account, for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six (6) months after the end of
               each such year, the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
         (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which
               the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment
               out of the Special Account was made, all records
               (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
         (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
          (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such Fiscal
               Year, together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                    ARTICLE V
                               Remedies of the Bank
Page  7
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Con-
ditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
     (b)  the Basic Legislation shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely
the operations or the financial condition of the STC or its ability to
carry out the Investment Project or to perform any of its obligations
under the Financing Agreement.
     (c)  The Cofinanciers Loan Agreements and the Cofinanciers Grant
Agreements  shall have failed to become effective by December 31, 1997
or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower estab-
lishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
     (d)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                    of any Cofinanciers Loans or Cofinanciers Grants
                    made to the Borrower for the financing of the
                    Project shall have been suspended, canceled or
                    terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
                    terms of the agreement providing therefor, or
               (B)  any such Cofinanciers Loan shall have become due
                    and payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
          (ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if
               the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
               Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termi-
               nation or prematuring is not caused by the failure of
               the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
               such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project
               are available to the Borrower from other sources on
               terms and conditions consistent with the obligations
               of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Con-
ditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
     (b)  the event specified in paragraph (d) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of para-
graph (d) (ii) of that Section.
                                ARTICLE VI
                       Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that at least two (2) Financing Agreements shall have been
executed in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (a) of
this Agreement; and
     (b)  that the PCU shall have been established under terms of
reference and operational arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, and
its Director shall have been appointed.
     Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to
Page  8
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank,
namely, that the Financing Agreements referred to in Section 6.01 of
this Agreement have been duly authorized or approved by the Borrower
and the STC which is a party thereto and are legally binding upon
the Borrower and such STC in accordance with their terms.
     Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister of International Cooperation and Foreign
Investment of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of International Cooperation
            and Foreign Investment
          149, Avenue de la Libert
          1002, Tunis-Le Belvdre
          Republic of Tunisia
          Cable address:                Telex:
               MCIIE                    18060
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                 248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.           64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                    By /s/ Azouz Ennifar
                                               Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Gianni Brizzi
                                                 Regional Vice President
                                            Middle East and North Africa
                               SCHEDULE 1
Page  9
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                         Amount of the Loan           % of
                              Allocated            Expenditures
                             Expressed in             to be
     Category                French Francs          Financed
(1)  Civil Works:                                  70%
     (a)  For Part A of       27,500,000
          the Project
     (b)  For Part B of        5,000,000
          the Project
(2)  Goods:                                        100% of foreign
                                                   expenditures,
                                                   100% of local
                                                   expenditures
                                                   (ex-factory cost)
                                                   and 85% of local
                                                   expenditures for
                                                   other items pro-
                                                   cured locally
     (a)  Equipment:
          (i)  For Part A of  102,500,000
               the Project
         (ii)  For Part B of   30,000,000
               the Project
     (b)  Vehicles for         12,500,000
          Part A of
          the Project
(3)  Consultants' Services      2,500,000           100%
     and Training
     for Part A of
     the Project
(4)  Unallocated               20,000,000
                              ___________
     TOTAL                    200,000,000
                              ===========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods,
works or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods, works or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed FRF20,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after April 1, 1996; and
Page  10
     (b)  under Categories (1) (a), (2) (a) (i), (2) (b) and (3),
until and unless the Investment Project in respect of which the
withdrawal is requested shall have been approved by the Bank in
accordance with the provisions of sub-paragraph 2 (a) of Section B
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
(i) goods, under contracts estimated to cost less than $250,000
equivalent each; (ii) works, under contracts estimated to cost less
than $350,000 equivalent each; (iii) services of consulting firms,
under contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each;
(iv) services of individual consultants, under contracts estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (v) training, all under
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are: (i) to assist in financing such
productive facilities and resources of the technical institutions
supporting the industrial sector as will contribute to the economic and
social development of the Borrower; and (ii) to put in place an effi-
cient and market responsive system of support agencies providing
assistance to the industrial sector, consisting mainly of small and
medium enterprises, and in particular to firms seeking to become more
internationally competitive.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Institutional Support and Strengthening of the Industrial
            Technical Support System
     (a)  Financing of Investment Projects to support a program aimed
at enabling existing and new STCs to strengthen their institutional
and environmental capability, effectiveness and impact to support the
enterprises undergoing competitiveness upgrading, in particular,
through: (i) better focusing on those services needed by industrialists,
development of areas of technical assistance and new services which
better respond to clients needs; (ii) improvement of technical infor-
mation and specialized vocational training, testing and analysis; and
(iii) in general, effective delivery of those services for which they
have been established.
     (b)  Provision of technical assistance as required for the
activities described in paragraph (a) of this Part A.
Part B:     National Metrology System (NMS)
     Establishment of a suitable National Metrology System aimed at
facilitating product quality assurance, including the provision of
the equipment required to enable laboratories to certify and be
recognized by trading partners.
                                 * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
                              SCHEDULE 3
                         Amortization Schedule
                                       Payment of Principal
     Date Payment Due              (Expressed in French Francs)*
On each March 15 and September 15
     beginning on March 15, 2002             8,335,000
Page  11
     and ending on March 15, 2013
     and on September 15, 2013               8,295,000
__________________________________________
*   The figures in this column represent the amount in French Francs to
    be repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General
    Conditions.
                               SCHEDULE 4
                               Procurement
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
this Part B.
     (a)  Grouping of contracts
     To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more each.
     (b)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of
the Borrower.
     (c)  Notification and Advertising
     The invitation to bid for each contract for goods estimated to cost
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the
procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the
Guidelines.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
Page  12
1.   National Competitive Bidding
(i) Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent per STC
and $1,000,000 equivalent under Part B of the Project; and (ii) works,
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provi-
sions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.   International Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent per STC and
$500,000 equivalent under Part B of the Project, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Guidelines.
3.   National Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent per STC and
$250,000 equivalent under Part B of the Project, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guide-
lines.
4.   Direct Contracting
     Goods which are of a proprietary nature may, with the Bank's prior
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Prior Review
     With respect to: (i) each contract for goods awarded in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Part B of Section I of this
Schedule; (ii) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $350,000 or more per contract; and (iii) the first two (2) contracts
to be awarded by each STC under Part A of the Project and the first two
(2) contracts to be awarded under Part B of the Project and not subject
to prior review pursuant to the provisions of subparagraphs (i) or (ii)
of this paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services required for the Project shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guide-
lines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981
(the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consul-
tants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable
to the Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply
to: (i) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (ii) contracts for the
Page  13
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall
not apply to: (i) the terms of reference for such contracts; (ii) single-
source selection of consulting firms; (iii) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (iv) amendments to con-
tracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value
to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (v) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to
$50,000 equivalent or above.
                              SCHEDULE 5
                        Implementation Program
Section A:     Implementation and Oversight Arrangements
1.   Direction Gnrale de l'Industrie (DGI)
     (a)  Overall responsibility for the Project shall reside with the
MI.  Within the MI, coordination, management and monitoring of the
Project shall be entrusted to the DGI, which shall, to this end, be
maintained by the Borrower with staff and under budgetary and reporting
requirements adequate to enable it to carry out its responsibilities
under the Project. To ensure consistency in the implementation of Project
activities, the DGI shall establish specialized working groups including
representatives of the STCs.
     (b)  For the purposes of Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, the MI
shall, on the basis of a proposal of the DGI, be vested responsibility
for drawing up the Financing Agreements.
2.   Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
     (a)  For the purposes of ensuring the proper execution of the
Project, the Borrower, through the MI, shall maintain during the period
of Project implementation a Project Coordination Unit headed by a
Director reporting directly to the Directeur Gnral of Industry. The
Borrower shall take all adequate measures to maintain the PCU with
staffing satisfactory to the Bank.
     (b)  The PCU shall be assigned specific responsibility for: (i)
monitoring the financing of the Project, including approving free-limit
Financings in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 (c) of
Section B of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, consolidating Project
accounts, tracing and monitoring Project expenditures, disbursements
and commitments; (ii) providing guidance and advising on procurement
matters, and ensuring that procurement of goods and works is carried
out in accordance with the requirements set forth in Section 3.03 and
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (iii) collecting, gathering and consoli-
dating information from the STCs and, on the basis thereof, preparing
and submitting to the Bank for its review (A) not later than March 31,
June 30, September 30 and December 31 in each Fiscal Year, quarterly
statements on procurement under the Project; (B) not later than March
31 and September 30 in each Fiscal Year, semiannual progress reports,
including an assessment of the need to update or modify the Performance
Indicators; and (C) the mid-term review report referred to in paragraph
(b) of Section B of this Schedule; (iv) timely and prompt planning of
Project activities and supervision of each STC responsible therefor;
(v) coordinating and commissioning the biannual surveys referred to in
paragraph 3 of this Section; and (vi) liaising with and among the
Borrower, the Bank and the STCs.
3.   Part A of the Project
     The Borrower, through the MI, shall carry out, not later than
March 31 in every other Fiscal Year, commencing with Fiscal Year 1998,
a biennial survey of a sample of industrial enterprises, of such scope
and in such detail as determined in agreement between the MI and the
Bank, aimed at assessing said enterprises' awareness of the STCs, the
quality of services offered by the said STCs, and other appropriate
information necessary to monitor the Project. Without limitation upon
the provisions of this paragraph, the biennial survey for start-up of
Page  14
the Project activities shall be carried out not later than December 31,
1996.
4.   Part B of the Project
     In order to determine the most suitable and efficient NMS to be
established under Part B of the Project, the Borrower, through the MI,
shall complete, not later than March 31, 1997, a study to ascertain
the most appropriate principles and system to set up the NMS, and, on
the basis thereof, identify in agreement with the Bank the most adequate
institution or institutions to implement Part B of the Project.
Section B:     Mid-term Review
     The Borrower, through the PCU, shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the
Performance Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof;
     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank, on or about September 30, 1999, a report
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above, on the progress achieved
in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
efficient carrying out of the Project, including an assessment on the
need to update or modify the Performance Indicators, and the achievement
of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
     (c)  review with the Bank, by December 31, 1999, or such later date
as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b)
above, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the effi-
cient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said
report and the Bank's views on the matter.
Section C:     Program and Performance Contract Implementation
     The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to implement, and
cause each STC to implement its respective Program and Performance
Contract with due diligence and efficiency and at all times take all
necessary actions to achieve the objectives thereof.
Section D:     Consultants' Services
     The Borrower shall employ consultants required for the Project
and not to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan whose quali-
fications, experience and terms of reference are satisfactory to the
Bank.
                            SCHEDULE 6
       Criteria and Terms for and Conditions of the Financing
                            Agreements
     Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the provisions set forth
or referred to in this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement:
Section A:     Eligibility Criteria for STCs
     A Financing Agreement may only be entered into with a STC: (i)
which shall have concluded a Program and Performance Contract satis-
factory to the Bank; and (ii) which, in the case of a newly created
STC, shall have been found economically justified on the basis of
a feasibility study prepared by the MI on its economic viability
measured on the expected rate of return to be yielded by the STC's
operations.
Section B:     Eligibility Criteria for Investment Projects
Page  15
1.   No expenditures for goods, works or services required for an
Investment Project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds
of the Loan unless:
     (a)  the Financing for such Investment Project shall have been
approved by the Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not
earlier than ninety (90) days prior to the date on which the Bank
shall have received the application and information required under
paragraph 2 (a) of this Section in respect of such Financing; or
     (b)  the Financing for such Investment Project shall have been a
free-limit Financing for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals
from the Loan Account and such expenditures shall have been made not
earlier than ninety (90) days prior to the date on which the Bank
shall have received the request and information required under para-
graph 2 (b) of this Section in respect of such free-limit Financing.
For the purposes of this Agreement, a free-limit Financing shall be a
Financing, other than the first two (2) Financings to be made avail-
able to each STC, for an Investment Project in an amount to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed the
sum of $100,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstanding
amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the proceeds of which have been or are being used for
financing goods, works and services directly and materially related
to such Investment Project.
     (c)  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the aggregate amount
of all Financings made available to any one STC shall not exceed the
equivalent of $6,000,000.
2.   (a)  When presenting a Financing (other than a free-limit
Financing) to the Bank for approval, the Borrower, through the PCU,
shall furnish to the Bank not later than five (5) working days after
receipt of the application by the STC: (i) a summary description
of the Investment Project; (ii) an Investment Study determining that
the Investment Project (A) is feasible and financially and/or
economically viable; (B) calculated to yield an economic rate of
return of at least twelve percent (12%); and (C) designed in accordance
with safety, health, and environment guidelines satisfactory to the
ANPE and the Bank; (iii) a description of the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing; and (iv) such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. Promptly thereafter,
and not later than twelve (12) working days after transmittal to the
Bank of the application and information required hereunder, the PCU
may transmit to the Bank for its consideration an evaluation of the
proposed Investment Project.
     (b)  Each request by the Borrower, through the PCU, for authori-
zation to make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a
free-limit Financing shall contain: (i) a summary description of the
STC in the case of a newly created STC, and of the Investment Project,
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Categories under which said
expenditures are to be financed; (ii) the amount of the proposed free-
limit Financing; (iii) the economic rate of return of the Investment
Project; and (iv) a code number allocated to the Investment Project.
     (c)  Without any limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a)
and (b) above, the Borrower, through the PCU, shall be responsible for
approving free-limit Financings on the basis of: (i) a summary
description of the Investment Project; (ii) an Investment Study
determining that the Investment Project (A) is feasible and financially
and/or economically viable; (B) calculated to yield an economic rate of
return of at least twelve percent (12%); and (C) designed in accordance
with safety, health, and environment guidelines satisfactory to the
ANPE and the Bank; (iii) a description of the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing; and (iv) such other
information as the PCU shall reasonably request.
Section C:     Terms and Conditions
1.   (a)  The Borrower shall relend to each of CETIME, CETTEX, CNCC and
Page  16
CTMCCV a portion of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to
time to Categories (1), (2) (a) (i), (2) (b) and (3) under a Financing
Agreement which shall include the following terms and conditions:
          (i)  the principal amount of each Financing Agreement shall
               be the aggregate amount of the principal of all
               Financings relent to each STC under its respective
               Financing Agreement; and
         (ii)  the Financing shall be: (A) in French Francs; (B)
               charged on the principal amount withdrawn and out-
               standing from time to time interest set forth pur-
               suant to the provisions of Section 2.05 of this
               Agreement; and (C) repaid in accordance with an
               amortization schedule calculated to have a maturity
               not exceeding the maturity of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall make available to a newly created STC on
a grant basis a portion of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from
time to time to Categories (1), (2) (a) (i), (2) (b) and (3) under a
Financing Agreement which shall include the following terms and
conditions:
          (i)  the principal amount of each Financing Agreement shall
               be the aggregate amount of the principal of all
               Financings made available to each STC under its
               respective Financing Agreement; and
          (ii) the Financing shall be in French Francs.
2.   Each Financing Agreement shall contain provisions pursuant to
which each STC shall undertake to:
     (a)  carry out its activities under the Investment Project and
conduct its operations with sound financial standards and practices,
with qualified management and personnel in adequate numbers, and in
conformity with an investment policy acceptable to the Borrower and
the Bank;
     (b)  protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank;
     (c)  assign to its Directeur Gnral responsibility for the proper
execution and achievement of the purposes of the Investment Project,
the responsibility for taking all action required for the successful
organization and implementation of the Investment Project and the
compliance with the undertakings under the Program and Performance
Contract;
     (d)  in the case of an Investment Project for a newly created STC,
assign responsibility for the proper execution and achievement of the
purposes of the Investment Project and responsibility for taking all
action required for the successful organization and implementation of
the Investment Project to the MI until the appointment of the Prsident
du Conseil d'Administration of the STC, and, promptly thereafter, to
effectively transfer said responsibility to its Directeur Gnral;
     (e)  carry out and operate the Investment Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound financial,
industrial, managerial and technical standards and to maintain adequate
records;
     (f)  ensure that: (i) the goods and works to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods and
works shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment
Project;
     (g)  allow the Borrower to inspect, by itself or jointly with
representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods
and the sites, works, plants and construction included in the
Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records
and documents;
Page  17
     (h)  (i) take out and maintain with responsible insurers such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be
consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the STC to replace or repair such goods;
     (i)  provide all such information as the Borrower or the Bank
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the STC and to
the benefits to be derived from the Investment Project; and
     (j)  comply with any requirements and conditions for the pro-
tection of the environment as shall have been determined by the ANPE.
                                SCHEDULE 7
                              Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; provided, however, that
notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 (a) of Section B of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement, payments for expenditures to be financed
out of the proceeds of the free-limit Financings may be made out of the
Special Account before the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals for
the Loan Account in respect thereof. Such expenditures, however, shall
qualify as eligible expenditures only if the Bank shall subsequently
authorize such withdrawals; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to FRF12,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule;
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
FRF6,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of FRF60,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
               the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
               specify.
Page  18
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
               Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which
               replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such
               request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
               withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the
               Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
               requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
               and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
               Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equi-
valent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
or
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commit-
ment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further
deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as
the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
Page  19
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
