Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18739
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
TRANSPORT ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 251 5-ZA)
December 22, 1998
Transport 1
Eastern and Southern Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 31. 1992)
Currency Unit = Zambia Kwacha (K)
K 1.0 = US$0.007
US$1.0 = K140
Average Annual Exchange Rates
Year K per US$
1993 = 452,76
1994 = 669.37
1995 = 857.23
1996 = 1,203.71
1997 = 1,333.81
1998 = 1,634.50 (Jan. to June)
(as of June 30, 1998)
US$1.0 = KI,903.38
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
1 Metric ton (tonne) = 1,000 kg or 2,205 pounds
1 Meter (m) = 3,2809 feet
1 Kilometer = 0.6214 miles
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB               African Development Bank
CAP 766            Roads and Road Traffic Act
DANIDA             Danish Intemational Development Agency
DC           =     District Council (urban and rural)
DISS               Department of Infrastructure and Support Services
FRS          =     Feeder Roads Section
HMS         =      Highway Management System
IDA         =      International Development Association
ICR         =      Implementation Completion Report
MCT          =     Ministry of Communications and Transport
MLGH        =      Ministry of Local Government and Housing
MOF                Ministry of Finance
MWS                Ministry of Works and Supply
NCC                National Construction Council
NRB         =      National Roads Board
PSRP               Public Sector Reform Program
RD                 Roads Department
RDC          =     Rural District Council
RMI         =      Road Maintenance Initiative
RMOT               Road Maintenance, Organization & Training Study
ROADSIP   =        Road Sector Investment Program
RRP         =      Roads Rehabilitation Project
SRP                Social Recovery Project
TETAP              Transport Engineering and Technical Project
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -December 31
Vice President:                Mr. Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:              Ms. Phyllis R. Pomerantz
Technical Manager:             Mr. Yusupha B. Crookes
Task Leader:                   Mr. Stephen Brushett



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
TRANSPORT ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2515-ZA)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface
EVALUATIONSUAIIARl'                    .                  .    .           .      .                     i
PROJECT BACKGROUND ...................................                                              i
PROJECT OBJECTIVES ...................................... i
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ......................................                           ii
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ......................................                                      ii
PROJECT OUTCOME .......................................iii
PROJECT OPERATIONS .......................................iii
KEY LESSONS LEARNED ......................................                                         iii
PART  I.  PROJECT  IMPLEMENTA   TION   ASSESSMENT ...................................................................... ...... . ... I
A. PROJECT BACKGROUND ..........................................I
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ..........................................    I
C. EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES AND RISKS ..........................................3
D. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ..........................................5
E. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT                          . .     6
F. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .......................................................................8
G. IDA PERFORMANCE ......................................................... ..........I.           9
H. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ................ .............            ............................... ...........9
l. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ......................................................................    10
J. FUTURE OPERATIONS ......................................................................I I 
K. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ........................................................................ 12
PARTII:  STAR T ISTICALANN!XES .........................S...................I................I...........I.............. .......................................... 13
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .14
TABLE2: RELATED BANK CREDITS .I
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE.I5
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATES AND ACTUAL .16
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .16
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION .16
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT                                   .1 7
TABLE 8: PROJECT COSTS.20
TABLE 9: PROJECT FINANCING.21
TABLE 10: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS                                   ..21
TABLE I 1: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANCTS                    ..22
TABLE 12: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENT .                      .......................................... 24....... 24
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES - STAFF INPUTS                   ..24
TABLE 14: BANK RESOURCES - MISSIONS                   ..25
PART III. AIDE MEMORE                                       ..27
PARTIV: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR .34
MAP: IBRD No. 29636.41
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
TRANSPORT ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2515-ZA)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Transport Engineering and
Technical Assistance Project, for which Credit 2515-ZA in the amount of SDR 6.2 million
(US$8.5 million equivalent) was approved on September 30, 1993 and became effective on
November 29, 1993. The credit closing date was extended from June 30, 1997 the original
closing date to June 30, 1998. Final disbursement was on December 16, 1998 at which date a
balance of SDR 702,836.21 was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Rosemary M. Cubagee (Consultani) and Subhash Seth
(AFTTI) and finalized by the Task Team Leader, Stephen Brushett (AFTTI) and was reviewed
by Yusupha Crookes, Sector Manager (AFTTI) and Phyllis Pomerantz, Country Director
(AFC02). Preparation of the ICR is based on materials in the project files, interviews with
Government officials and on the findings of the ICR mission fielded July 13-26, 1998. The
Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing views reflected in the ICR
mission's Aide-Memoire, and preparing its own evaluation of the project.



REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
TRANSPORT ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2515-ZA)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Background
1.    After several unsuccessful efforts at economic reform in the 1970s and 1980s, in 1991
the Zambian government initiated a reformn program to encourage movement to a full market
economy, and to significantly reduce the role of government in productive and commercial
economic activities. The reform program had relied in part on provision of increased incentives
for agricultural production and the promotion of the private sector, both by supporting new
entries and privatizing a large portion of the public sector. However, the creation of the
necessary enabling environment for enhanced growth and productivity continued to be hampered
by the existence of infrastructure, including the road network, which was poorly maintained and
run down. Expenditures in the road sector had for some time remained well below the level
needed for sustainable maintenance. The legislative framework for roads was outdated and
responsibilities were not clearly defined. Road sector agencies did not generally have the
requisite resources, staffing and tools to undertake their assigned responsibilities. The need was
seen to restructure expenditures and to improve planning allied with new initiatives to strengthen
the road sector institutional and financing framework. The project was to help lay the
groundwork for this effort and to prepare a follow-on project to address priority investment
needs.
Project Objectives
2.    The project objectives were to: (a) design and implement transport sector policy reforms,
in particular through: (i) a program of regulatory and institutional reform to improve the
management of the national road network and to put the financing of roads on a sustainable
long-term basis, and (ii) enhanced opportunities for private sector participation in the
rehabilitation and maintenance of roads; to strengthen the Government's capacity to plan and
coordinate public expenditures for roads, and to monitor sector performance; and (c) carry out
the preparatory engineering work for the first year program of the proposed multi-year Roads
Rehabilitation Project. The project components were: (i) Policy Support; (ii) Project
Preparation; and (iii) Institutional Development and Studies. The project objectives were
appropriate, realistic and relevant to the needs of Zambia and were consistent with the agenda
for reform being developed by the RMI program. A wide range of institutional reforms were
required as Zambia did not have the financial or technical capacity to rehabilitate and maintain a



- ii -
well functioning network. The project was well designed to address the reforms required and
provided for linkage between these reforms and investment program preparation. The only
proviso is that the policy reform objective was possibly too ambitious to have been fully
achieved in the timeframe of the project. Two objectives - design and implementation of policy
reforms and preparation of the follow-on project - are judged to have been substantially
achieved. One objective - strengthening planning and coordination capacity - i!s judged to have
been achieved to a considerable extent.
Project Implementation
3.The project suffered from a slow start-up due to: (i) discontinuity in project management,
(ii) weaknesses in coordination of the various implementing agencies, and (iii) delays in the
planned strengthening of capacity of some of these agencies. Performance substantially
improved from mid-1995 with the NRB given a pivotal role in project management and all
components - save for one which was dropped from the project and financed by DANIDA -
were completed with minor delay and with some cost savings compared to appraisal. A number
of additional subcomponents were undertaken to refocus and help accelerate the achievement of
project objectives from the time of the mid term project review held in October 1995 and to take
advantage of the cost savings. This helped to enhance and expedite the preparation of the follow-
on project. Action plans have been prepared for all studies completed under the project and
implementation is under way on recommendations in most cases. From these plans has been
developed the Government's letter of road sector policy of March 1997, containing agreed
undertakings on actions and measures to be taken to advance road sector reform. IDA
performance is judged as more than satisfactory during supervision where synergies with the
RMI program were effectively utilized. Borrower performance is judged as more than
satisfactory during implementation as early delays were overcome and capacity constraints were
quite effectively addressed. The project was completed by April 1998 and the credit closing date
had to be extended by one year to June 30, 1998. Final estimated project cost is US$8.6 million
and disbursements of IDA credit proceeds amounted to US$7.9 million.
Project Sustainability
4. The project has laid a strong foundation for the management and sustainable financing of the
road sector and played a very important role in designing and preparation of the follow-on
ROADSIP. Substantial progress has already been achieved namely: setting up the Road Fund,
the NRB and carrying out the PSRP based strengthening of MLGH and the RD. Sustainability
depends though on Government's willingness to continue to implement reforrns and to carry
forward all the agreed recommendations of plans and studies executed under the project. The
letter of sector policy and the agenda of actions to be undertaken under the follow-on project,
which was developed after substantial internal stakeholder consultation, augurs well for the
future in this regard. Sustainability is thus rated as likely.



- iii -
Project Outcome
5.    The project outcome is rated as satisfactory. Substantial progress has been achieved
against three indicators of development impact developed during project supervision i.e.,
completion of studies and production of action plans for the implementation of key
recommendations enjoying strong stakeholder support; restructured and strengthened road
agencies having appropriate tools, personnel and resources to carry out planning and
implementation of road works; and improvement in road maintenance performance measures by
volume of expenditure and the quality of work carried out. Some high quality outputs were
produced in the course of the project notably - the road safety action plan, road sector
environmental guidelines, and the economic evaluation manual.
Project Operations
6.    There are no future operations of the project as such. However, the project has helped
future operations in the road sector in four ways - preparation of the follow-on project, Project to
Support the Road Sector Investment Program (ROADSEP), which is a sector operation enjoying
IDA and other external financial support; development of an agenda for further policy and
institutional reform outlined in the Government's letter of sector policy of March 1997 and
being monitored on an annual basis; development of specific sector performance targets under
ROADSIP to better measure progress on improving network quality; and improvement in sector
management organization and capacity.
Key Lessons Learned
7.    The key lessons learned from the project are as follows:
(a)   A satisfactory outcome for a technical assistance project, as in this case, is most
likely where policy reform is effectively linked to investment support.
Government and local stakeholders must be effectively engaged in the
development of the reform agenda from the outset and should be able to perceive
the consequent benefits from this reform in terms of improvements in the design
and eventual implementation of the investment program.
(b)   A significant number of activities not foreseen at appraisal were completed under
the project whereas not all the specified outputs of studies identified at appraisal
were carried through. The experience of this project underlines the value of
flexibility in the development of project components - and specific activities - to
achieve project objectives. Experience also demonstrates perhaps the need to
avoid overspecifying the intended outputs from any given study, such as the
anticipated creation of a national highways authority emanating from the
transport policy study.
(c)   Sector policy and institutional reform require political commitment, a clear
timetable and a set of realistic and achievable steps in order to be successful as
well as to be based on sound, well argued analysis of alternative approaches. All



-Iv -
such may not be achievable under the aegis of a single project. Effective
involvement of stakeholders not only in the consultative stage but also in the
decision making process will likely make it more sustainable in implementation,
however long the process may take.
(d)   The effectiveness of IDA's performance was enhanced by the synergies between
the preparation and implementation of the project and the development of the
RMI program in Zambia. This experience points to the value of such synergies,
and the associated incremental resources, for advancing a difficult policy agenda
whilst helping build stakeholder understanding and commitment to reform.
(e)   Despite an overall satisfactory outcome, project implementation was
delayed in the early stages. Early attention to project management and
coordination arrangements in project processing and early remedial
action where such arrangements are not performing for whatever
reason may lead to considerable benefits in terms of more timely and
effective implementation performance. Such action could cover inter
alia appropriate institutional arrangements as well as payments and
incentives for staff.



REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
TRANSPORT ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2515-ZA)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Project Background
1.    After several unsuccessful efforts at economic reform in the 1970s and 1980s, the
Zambian government introduced new policies from 1991 to encourage movement to a full
market economy, and to significantly reduce the role of government in productive and
commercial activities. The reform program had relied in part on provision of increased
incentives for agricultural production and the promotion of the private sector, both by supporting
new entries and privatizing a large portion of the public sector. However, the creation of the
necessary enabling environment for enhanced growth and productivity had continued to be
hampered by the existence of infrastructure which had been poorly maintained and run down,
which was particularly true of the roads sector.
2.    In the road sector, expenditures had for some time remained well below the level needed
to maintain the network in a stable condition over the long-term. At the time of project launch,
the spending on roads under the jurisdiction of the Roads Department (RD) covered only 20 to
40 percent of the requirement for the 7,000 km of trunk and main roads, and only 10 to 20
percent for the 14,000 km of district roads. The nearly 16,000 km of roads under the jurisdiction
of District Councils (DCs) were in worse condition and deteriorating at a faster pace than the
RD-maintained roads. In addition, the existing regulations governing roads which dated back to
1969 no longer reflected current practices and policies. None of the ministries and agencies in
the sector had the requisite resources, staffing and tools to undertake its assigned responsibilities
in an adequate manner. The need was, therefore, seen to restructure the expenditures and
improve planning in the roads sector to increase efficiency of use of scarce resources. This was
to be allied with new initiatives to increase revenue mobilization from domestic and external
sources. These measures were likely to require a number of policy reforms and strengthening of
existing institutions or creation of new institutions for sustainability. The Government had
shown a broad commitment to sectoral changes before project launch by participating in the
Road Maintenance Initiative (RMI) program which has helped build a consensus among public
and private sector stakeholders in Zambia on the nature and direction of changes that would be
required.
B.    Project Objectives
3.    As stated in the Memorandum and Recommendation of the President for the project
dated May 20, 1993, there were three main project objectives. The first was to design and
implement transport sector policy reforms, in particular through (a) a program of regulatory and
institutional reform to improve the management of the national road network and to put the



financing of roads on a sustainable long-term basis, and (b) enhanced opportunities for private
sector participation in the rehabilitation and maintenance of roads. The second was to strengthen
Government capacity to plan and coordinate public expenditures for roads, and to monitor sector
performance. The third was to carry out the preparatory engineering work for the first year
program of the proposed multi-year Roads Rehabilitation Project (RRP).
4.    To achieve the above stated objectives, the project comprised the following components:
(a)   Policy Suppor: a national road transport policy study, which was aimed at
carrying out administrative reclassification of the road network (rnuch of which
was not gazetted at the time), working out the detailed implications of
establishing an autonomous Highway Authority to take over the responsibility for
managing the entire road network in Zambia, proposing arrangements for road
financing, including the possible introduction of an explicit road tariff, to be
followed by preparing a draft Highway Authority Bill for consideration by
Parliament.
(b)   Project Preparationi: consulting services for carrying out detailed engineering
studies for the first year of the five-year prioritized road rehabilitation program,
which was under active consideration by the Government at the time of TETAP's
appraisal. The five-year road program was prepared on the basis of an AfDB-
financed Road Maintenance Organization and Training Study (RMOT). Under
TETAP, it was agreed to carry out engineering design and preparation of bidding
documents for the rehabilitation of the Kapiri-Nakonde road. In addition, it was
agreed to finance the feasibility study and the subsequent preparation of tender
documents for rehabilitation of the Luangwa Bridge, a major bridge on the Great
East Road that was constructed in 1968 and that was showing signs of serious
structural defects at the time of TETAP's appraisal.
(c)   Institutional Development: This component combined a range of studies and
technical assistance to help the various institutions involved with some aspects of
road planning and management to fulfill their responsibilities. These included the
following: (i) The design and implementation of a highway management system
(HMS) which was designed to assist the Govemment in adapting technical
standards to levels that are economically sustainable and, based on an analysis of
pavement structural strength, traffic data, environments, and technical options, to
identify and assign priorities to road rehabilitation and periodic maintenance. The
outcome of the HMS was aimed at strengthening the capability to develop annual
and rolling programs of road works and expenditures that would optimize the net
social benefits for any prevailing level of funding. (ii) The undertaking of an
equipment management and maintenance study to explore how RD's large
equipment, plant and vehicle fleet could be managed and maintained in an
efficient manner, including what role the private sector might play in providing
equipment and maintenance services to RD. (iii) A study of the local consulting
and construction industry to establish the range and competence of domestic
construction and consulting firms, identify any constraints hampering their
development, and prepare an action plan for removing constraints to their
development; (iv) The establishment of a feeder roads section wilthin the
Ministry of Local Government and Housing (MLGH) to cover roads managed by



- 3 -
the Rural District Councils (RDC). The key function of this section was to
channel funds from the development budget to support construction and
rehabilitation of RDC roads and, if required, implementing the collection of local
revenues for maintenance of RDC roads. Also, this section was to annually
recommend to the Ministry of Communications and Transport (MCT) the
appropriate level of grant from the recurrent budget to support the maintenance of
RDC roads. The FRS was assigned to carry out a comprehensive inventory of all
RDC roads to prepare a prioritized maintenance program by placing emphasis on
labor-based maintenance methods whenever possible. (v) A specialized private
accounting firm to assist the implementing agencies in maintaining the project
accounts and to carry out the annual audits.
5.    During implementation, to refocus and accelerate project achievements (with particular
regard to the preparation of the follow-on project) and to take advantage of project cost savings,
a number of additional subcomponents of the project were undertaken under the framework of
the original project objectives. These were as follows. Under Policy Support: (i) renumbering
of the road system; (ii) preparation of background papers for a Roads 2001 workshop held
February 1996 to launch the proposed sector investment program; (iii) preparation of a bankable
document for soliciting domestic and external support for the program; (iv) preparation of an
environmental mitigation plan and guidelines for the roads sector; (v) preparation of a road
safety action plan; (vi) preparation of a program implementation manual and an economic
evaluation manual for the program. Under Project Preparation: feasibility studies and
preliminary design for Lusaka and seven other urban centers (Ndola, Kitwe, Livingstone,
Kabwe, Kasama, Mansa and Solwezi) for the purposes of identifying a first year program of
accelerated urban road rehabilitation. Under Institutional Development: (i) additional support for
project management and capacity building through an adviser for MILGH and an Executive
Secretary for the newly established National Roads Board (NRB), and (ii) support to the start-up
of a community roads program under the Social Recovery Project (SRP).
C.    Evaluation of Objectives and Risks
6.    All the project objectives were appropriate, realistic, and relevant for the needs of road
sector in Zambia, and were consistent with the agenda for national road policy reforms identified
in the RMI seminar held in February 1993. Following many years of neglect, road expenditures
remained well below the level needed to maintain the network in a stable condition. The RMI
seminar helped the Government to build a consensus on the nature and directions of changes
required. This helped the design of interventions under TETAP which was to be complementary
to the RMI and which was aimed at supporting and assisting the reforrns identified. In the roads
subsector, a wide range of institutional reforms were required as the country at that time did not
have the capacity, either technical or financial, to rehabilitate and maintain a well-functioning
road network. TETAP was designed to address all the reforrns needed and all its three
objectives were stated in an order of priority.
7.    The first objective emphasized the design and implementation of transport sector policy
reforms to improve the management of the national road network and to put the financing of
roads on a sustainable long term basis. The Roads and Traffic Act (CAP 766) gave the
responsibility for roads to a single Ministry for Works, Transport and Communications. At the



- 4-
time of project appraisal, this was no longer the case with no fewer than three separate ministries
carrying out important roles in the road sector, i.e., MCT was responsible for setting overall
transport policy; MWS was the designated authority for all trunk, main and district roads, and
was responsible for the construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of these roads; the DCs
under MLGH were responsible for the remainder of the road network. CAP 766 did not address
the provision of any specific financing to support maintenance of urban and rural district
councils roads. Therefore the project objective of bringing about institutional reforms linked to
help the achievement of sector policy reforms was appropriate. The component of the project to
support this objective was appropriately designed, but was in retrospect probably too ambitious
to have been readily achieved with the timeframe and resources of the project. Even with the
additional and complementary resources provided through the RMI program, it was always
likely to be a lengthy and complex process to move from broad consensus about the need for
reform to: consensus about the detailed institutional framework to be adopted and its subsequent
implementation; and drafting and adoption of the necessary legislative instruments. The risk of
Government's political ability not being sufficient to implement (at least some of) the requisite
reforms was, however, recognized at project appraisal.
8.    The second project objective relating to strengthening Govemment's capacity to plan and
coordinate public expenditures for roads and to monitor sector performance, was appropriate and
very important for the country and sector because of the weak institutional capacity of the road
institutions, particularly in handling technical planning, financial monitoring and contract
management. The project component for institutional development was designed to support
enhanced capacity as the process of determining the best medium-term institutional framework
for the road sector was being determined under the project's first objective. The component was
appropriately designed in that it sought to address capacity constraints not only in the public
sector - measures to strengthen and restructure the RD and to create a feeder road section in
MLGH - but also the private sector through the construction industry study. A further risk had
been correctly assessed at project appraisal that the capacity of various implementing agencies
might build up more slowly than anticipated and that greater emphasis needed to be placed from
the outset on the private sector, both external and domestic.
9.    The third project objective relating to carrying out the preparatory engineering work for
the first year program of a proposed multi-year RRP, was timely and appropriate. The design of
the project recognized that substantial resources would have to be put into the road network to
address the backlog of maintenance and the rehabilitation of strategic routes if the new road
sector policies were to have an impact on the overall quality of the network. The project
component included the preparation of a manageable number of subprojects of the proposed
program. The choice of these subprojects appears to have been consistent with the five-year
work program which was an outcome of the RMOT study. The inclusion of these activities were
justified by the need to reduce the risk of closure of the Great East Road due to bridge failure
and of substantial increases in vehicle operating costs due to further deterioration on the Great
North Road. These two roads assure international traffic, with the latter being particularly
critical as the principal link of Zambia to the port of Dar-es-Salaam.



D.   Achievement of Objectives
10.   Of the three project objectives, two have been substantially achieved and one has been
achieved to a considerable extent. The first on designing and implementing transport sector
policy reforms is substantially achieved. Major progress has been made towards the design and
implementation of transport sector policy reforms and achievements can be recorded with regard
to reforms to strengthen management and financing of roads. An overarching national transport
policy framework was drafted as far back as mid- 1995, but is not expected to be finally adopted
by Cabinet until early in 1999 A letter of road sector policy has though been prepared and
signed in March 1997 as a basis for the follow-on project to TETAP (Project to Support a Road
Sector Investment Program, Credit 2993). A Road Fund was established October 1993 under
existing financial legislation followed by the establishment of a National Roads Board (NRB) in
October 1994 under statutory instrument. These measures represent significant achievements in
relation to putting financing on a sustainable long term footing and to enhancing opportunities
for private sector participation in the roads sector. The Government has moved towards the
establishment of an explicit road tariff. A fuel levy was introduced in 1993 at K 10 per liter, was
subsequently raised to K 30 per liter and to K 40 per liter and has been since 1997 set at 15
percent of the wholesale price of fuel. The impact of this levy has been a steady increase in the
resources available to the Road Fund for routine maintenance. The NRB has taken on the role of
managing the Road Fund and has been an important catalyst for increasing financing and
improving management in the road sector. The majority of Board members, including the
Chairman, are from the private sector. Under the project, significant work has been
accomplished, including the preparation of the necessary legislative instruments, on both road
reclassification and on a national highways authority. The Government declined to pursue the
latter reform during the life of the project, deciding instead first/y to strengthen the existing
implementing agencies in line with the Public Sector Reform Program (PSRP) and secondly to
reassess the case for further reform on the basis of experience.
11.   The second objective with regard to strengthening the Government capacity to plan and
coordinate public expenditure for roads and to monitor sector performance has been achieved to
a considerable extent. Whereas significant achievements have been recorded in terrns of
strengthening the existing implementing agencies and the newly created NRB, follow-up on
specific programs and action plans developed under the project to this end have been uneven.
The main developments can be summarized thus: (a) The NRB has a fully functioning
secretariat and now has in house capacity in procurement, financial management and highway
engineering. (b) The Department of Infrastructure and Support Services (DISS) in MLGH has
been restructured under the PSRP and is fully staffed to provide the feeder road support
function, though with the continuing assistance of external consultants. (c) The restructuring of
the RD under the PSRP is at an advanced stage and, despite implementation delays, remains on
track for phasing out of force account and for increasing reliance on the management of works
carried out on contract by the private sector; (d) The HMS has been designed and installed in the
RD but this has suffered some implementation problems and the conditions for its financial and
operational sustainability have not yet been attained. No decision has yet been taken to contract
out management of the HMS though this had been agreed in principle at appraisal.
12.   The third objective was substantially achieved with regard to carrying out the
engineering design of the first year work program. The preparation of feasibility studies,
detailed design and bidding documents for all of the four sections of the Great North Road have



- 6 -
been completed. The resulting civil works of three sections are to be funded out of the follow-
on credit and are expected to start in early 1999. Work on one section of the road (Kapiri
Mposhi-Serenje) was subsumed under DANIDA's assistance to the transport sector in Zambia
and the civil works are nearing completion following the design financed by IDA. The
rehabilitation of Luangwa Bridge on Great East Road was taken over by DANIDA " in toto" and
thus no work was funded under the project. The preparation of the follow-on investment
program, named Road Sector Investment Program (ROADSIP) was accelerated and the time
frame extended to ten years duration following a Cabinet decision taken in February 1997. In
line with this program, additional first year works under an accelerated urban road rehabilitation
program were identified and preparation was financed out of credit proceeds.
E.   Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
13.   The project suffered from a slow start-up due to delays in getting consultancy services'
contracts up and running. This, in turn, seems to be related to discontinuity in project
management which was the responsibility of the planning department in MCT. Much of this
appears due to frequent changes of project coordinator. Much of this was beyond the control of
MCT, however, as a number of coordinators left due to perceived low salaries and poor
conditions of service in government or due to illness and death in two cases. Project
management was rendered difficult in the first 18 months by the lack of effective arrangements
for coordinating the inputs from the various implementing agencies. A number of implementing
agencies, notably MLGH, were not fully up to speed in terms of the capacity needed to execute
components of the project. There were significant overall improvements in project management
and coordination from mid-1995 until the end of the project. It was decided to request NRB to
carry out these functions on behalf of MCT from February 1995 and to provide more resources
for project coordination and for project financial management. Adequate remuneration for the
Project Coordinator was provided through the project. This facilitated the completion of all
original components of the project, with some delay but with some cost savings. In addition, a
number of additional subcomponents (see para 5) were undertaken. While this stretched
implementation capacity at times, this did accelerate preparation of the follow-on project to be
enhanced in terms of quality and expedited in terms of start-up over and above what had been
anticipated at project appraisal.
14.   Factors not Generally Subject to Government Control: In this project, there were no
important factors which were not subject to control by the govemment in general and the
implementing agencies in particular. The only exception in this regard may be that a
contributory factor to the frequent changes of project coordinator was the illness and death of
some key staff in the MCT after project start-up.
15.   Factors Generally Subject to Government Control: The Government was able to
determine the pace at which proposed reforms in the financing and management of roads were
implemented. Policy in this regard was clarified in the letter of sector policy of March 1997
whose implementation is being monitored under the follow-on project. With regard to
financing, the Government has supported the establishment of the Road Fund and the
progressive adjustment of the fuel levy to reflect the increasing maintenance requirements of the
network. Government has not though taken all steps necessary for a fully fledged road tariff to
be put in place, e.g., fuel levy is not determined on the basis of the marginal cost of road



damage; fuel levy proceeds are not collected directly by the NRB and deposited directly into the
Road Fund account; Government has not yet implemented the deposit of some or all other road
user charges into the Road Fund. With regard to road management, the Government has fully
supported measures to strengthen the capacity of RD and MLGH (DISS) and has supported
additional measures to strengthen the NRB - since August 1997 the costs of the secretariat are
met out of the proceeds of the Road Fund. The Government, however, declined to proceed at
this stage with the establishment of a national highways authority and with certain other
recommendations of the transport policy study. Two further factors were under Government's
control. Firstly, there was the provision of counterpart funding, amounting over the life of the
project to about 5% of total project cost. These funds were made available but with a delay in
early years which contributed some to delays in the payment of consultants. Secondly, the
provision of counterpart staff in MLGH/DISS was delayed in relation to the start-up of the
feeder road support consultancy, as staff were recruited and confirmed under the PSRP much
later than had been anticipated. Similar delays in the implementation of the restructuring of the
RD under the PSRP had a lesser effect as counterpart staff were for the most part already in
place under the existing structure.
16.   Factors Generally Suiject to Implementiig Agency Conttrol: The project relied to a large
extent on the output of various consultancy services for the achievement of its objectives. The
selection of consultants was carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines and the provisions of
the credit agreement. In a number of cases, output from consultants was delayed in relation to
anticipated delivery although for the most part this was due to the need for additional or revised
work to be carried out, e.g., the proposed designs for three sections of the Great North Road
were revised after review. In one case (the national transport policy study), two addenda had to
be issued to the final report to address weaknesses and omissions in the consultants' work. In
the case of the HMS, the implementing agency did not provide all the material and financial
support necessary for successful implementation and as a result the full benefit of the
consultancy services financed by the project has not been realized. The RD to date has taken no
decision to contract out management services to the private sector although this had been agreed
in principle at appraisal.
17.   Cost Changes: The project achieved all of its agreed objectives and all the components
were implemented within the appraisal estimate of cost. The total estimated actual cost of the
project is US$8.6 million compared to an appraisal estimate of US$9.0 million. The estimated
foreign exchange component is 79% compared to 70% at appraisal. Significant cost savings
were obtained on the components originally identified for financing out of the credit proceeds.
The total estimated actual cost of these components came to US$7.5 mn. A major contributory
factor though was the decision to finance the Luangwa bridge preparatory work (US$0.8 million
equivalent) out of other financing sources. The savings created the opportunity to finance
additional subcomponents which helped to accelerate and deepen the process of preparation of
the follow-on project.
18.  Implementialion Delays: The credit was signed on September 30, 1993 and became
effective on November 29, 1993. There were some delays in processing and awarding of
consultancy contracts at the start of the project . This was due to the aforementioned problems
with project coordination and with the unfamiliarity of most implementing agencies with Bank
procedures. As a result, there was a significant disbursement lag in the first two years of the
project and disbursements only attained 24% of appraisal estimate. Project implementation
gained momentum from mid-1995. Most components of the project were completed within the



expected timeframe, taking account of the delayed start - with the exception of the national
transport policy study where some work had to be redone, and of the engineering studies for the
three sections of the Great North Road where designs had to be modified and the economic
viability had to be reassessed. The credit closing date had to be extended by one year, to June 30
1998, to facilitate completion of these components. With the exception of the continuing
support to the feeder road program and to the HMS which have been absorbed under the follow-
on project, all activities were essentially completed by the end of the first quarter of 1998
compared to the appraisal estimate of project completion of December 31, 1996.
19.   Changes in Project Scope: A number of additional subcomponents were added to the
project, i.e., preliminary engineering undertaken for the accelerated urban road rehabilitation
program, additional policy work undertaken on road renumbering, road safety, environmental
guidelines, preparation of working papers and a bankable document, additional feeder survey
and inventory work carried out, and additional institutional support to MLGH and NRB (see also
para. 5). In addition, one original component, the engineering for the Luangwa bridge was
dropped.
F.    Project Sustainability
20.   The benefits derived from all the project components are substantial, and in general have
laid a strong foundation for the management and sustainable financing of the road sector, and in
particular had played a very important role in the designing and preparation of the follow-on
project (ROADSIP). All project studies have been completed and the actions plans have been
prepared. The degree of internal consultation in the development of recommendations for policy
and institutional reform has been uniformly high. Government capacity to fully and effectively
carry out all the identified reforms is, however, limited and there have been delays in following
up on agreed action plans in some areas. There are also concerns about the sustainability of
some of the institutional improvements supported by the project where there are continued
concerns about both technical and financial capacity to manage operations. This is the case with
the HMS whose sustainability is in question, unless and until more appropriate management and
financing arrangements are put in place for system maintenance, data collection and analysis and
operator training. Commitment to carry out reform, however, is indicated by the important
steps already achieved. One important element of this agenda is completing the process of
policy reform (in particular the process of commercializing the management of the road sector)
and of carrying out concomitant changes to the legislative framework. In both these areas, the
Government was not able to agree with all the proposal developed as a result of the national road
transport policy study. Given though that Government has committed in the letter of sector
policy to move forward to implement all the institutional reforns, and particularly these will be
further pursued under the follow-on project, the sustainability of TETAP can be rated as
"likely".



-9-
G.   IDA Performance
21.   Identification, Preparation and Apprai.val: IDA's performance at project identification,
during preparation and at project appraisal is rated as satisfactory. IDA played a critical role in
helping Government identify a technical assistance project with a key focus on policy measures
and institutional reform to initiate the process of commercialization the management of the road
sector. Under preparation, IDA was instrumental in developing project components which were
well matched with the proposed project objectives. The linkage to the RMI Program helped give
the policy and institutional reform process a good impetus although the expectations of what
could be achieved within the timeframe and the resources available under the project were
possibly set too high. The appraisal process was well conceived and carried out with an
appropriate mix of skills and experience represented on the team. One possible adverse
comment is that more attention might have been given to project management and coordination
arrangements and to the support that might be needed in this regard to the key implementing
agencies.
22.   Supervision: The IDA supervision was professional, objectively focused and based on
solid understanding of the Borrower's institutional capabilities and the IDA's policies and
procedures. Supervision performance is rated as more than satisfactory. During project
implementation, the IDA and the Borrower relationship was effective and productive. The
implementation problems were generally correctly assessed and were reported appropriately in
the performance ratings. The timing of supervision missions was appropriate and the time spent
in the field was sufficient. Although this may not appear to have been true of the first 18 months
of the project during which there was only one formal supervision mission, frequent visits by the
RMI program manager in that period were effective in addressing early implementation
problems and the start-up of project studies. IDA supervision was particularly useful in assisting
the Borrower improve: performance on financial management and accounting design; and
implementation of additional subcomponents of the project which helped accelerate preparation
of the follow-on project. While the Mid Term Review did not take place as planned by end-
December 1994, the major review undertaken in October 1995 which gave rise inter alia to the
foregoing was timely and appropriate in the project circumstances.
H.   Borrower Performance
23.   Identification, Preparation and Appraisal: The performance of the Borrower at
identification, preparation and appraisal is rated as satisfactory. The depth and quality of
Borrower involvement was evidenced by: (a) the active participation of not only the responsible
policy ministry (MCT) but also the proposed implementing agencies (NILGH, RD) in these
stages of the project; and (b) the environment fostered by the RMI program which helped bring
additional public and private sector stakeholders into the process of the design and
implementation of road maintenance programs in Zambia.
24.  Implementation: The performance of the Borrower during project implementation is
rated as more than satisfactory. The Borrower was able to overcome some initial problems with
project coordination and lack of capacity in certain agencies which delayed the start-up of most
components. Bringing the NRB into the project to play a pivotal role was instrumental in both
addressing many of the capacity constraints and enabling the stakeholders represented on the



-10-
Board to have a say in the timing and content in the implementation of the project and in the
preparation of the follow-on project. Project reporting improved during the course of
implementation and this was very effective in focusing the effort of IDA supervision missions.
Financial management, including the processing of consultant invoices and payments, and the
production of accounts steadily improved during the project such that in the last two years of the
project the audit could be carried out considerably in advance of the legal required date. The
1997 audit was, however, qualified as a portion of project funds had been diverted to non-project
uses. The Borrower dealt with the issue in a timely and effective way, satisfactory to IDA, such
that the qualification could be lifted in the subsequent audit and the funds were reimbursed to the
project account in full.
I.    Assessment of Outcome
25.   The project achieved all of its objectives in full or in part and the outcome of project is
rated as satisfactory. No indicators of development impact were given at appraisal. Three such
indicators were developed by IDA during supervision to assess the progress of the project.
These were: (i) completion of studies and the production of action plans for the implementation
of key recommendations which have strong stakeholder support; (ii) restructured and
strengthened road authorities which have appropriate tools, trained personnel and adequate
financial resources to carry out planning and implementation of road works; and (iii)
improvement in road maintenance performance measured by the volume of expenditure and the
quality of work carried out. The project has very clearly allowed the Borrower to advance in all
these areas although much is left to be achieved under the follow-on project and subsequent
interventions:
*  Firstly, not only were all studies originally slated for financing completed and action plans
prepared, the same can be said for all the additional subcomponents added after the review
carried out in October 1995. For the most part the quality of the work produced was high
and the essence of the agreed action plans have been captured in the Borrower's letter of
road sector policy. Specific mention can be made of three documents: the Road Safety
Action Plan which is considered to be one of the best of its kind yet produced in the region;
the Guidelines for Environmental Management in the Road Sector which are similarly
viewed and which are already in active use in Zambia; and the Economic Evaluation Manual
which is in use and is helping implementing agencies design more appropriate maintenance
interventions.
*  Secondly, considerable progress has been made on restructuring and strengthening road
sector institutions although, as the Borrower's road sector policy letter recognizes, only a
first stage in the process has yet been achieved. With the additional resources being
provided under the follow-on project, it will be determined during the first years of
implementation if further restructuring will be needed for capacity development and
sustainable road sector management. The first review of the sector policy letter took place in
October 1998 during which Government confirmed its intention to revise the Roads and
Road Traffic Act inter alia to put NRB and the Road Fund on a firm legislative basis by June
2000.



- II -
* Thirdly, road maintenance planning and implementation has been placed on a sounder and
more sustainable footing with the reforms which gave rise to the NRB and the Road Fund.
Disbursements on Road Fund financed maintenance programs have risen from K 10.5 billion
in 1995 to an estimated K 15.6 billion in 1997. This should rise further to K 18.4 billion in
1998 although the programming of work in both the last two years has been adversely
affected by late and erratic releases of fuel levy proceeds to the Road Fund. Thus, while a
higher portion of maintenance requirements are being covered now compared to the situation
before the project, this has still not reached the level of 50%. The relative rate of
improvement has been quite sharp for urban and rural district roads, but much less so for
main and trunk roads. Also, there remains some concern about the quality of road work
carried out. More than 95% of work is now carried out by the private sector in line with
policy to reduce force account, but the number of experienced, local contractors is still quite
limited.
J.    Future Operations
26.   As a technical assistance project largely geared to the preparation of a road sector
program, there are no future operations of the project as such. However, the project has helped
future operations in the road sector in four important ways:
(a)   The implementation of this project has opened the door for other assistance in the
roads sector including not only the follow-on IDA project but also financing from
other donors as part of a sector wide approach to road policy and investment.
Financing has thus been lined up for most of the estimated requirements of
US$450 million for the first five years of ROADSIP (1998-2003).
(b)   An agenda for follow-on policy and institutional reform building on what has
been started under the project is clearly set out in a letter of road sector policy
dated March 1997. This letter provides the policy underpinning for the follow-on
project under which its implementation is being reviewed on an annual basis.
The main elements of sector development strategy addressed in this letter
concern: strengthening the institutional framework; rehabilitating priority roads;
ensuring effective maintenance; managing maintenance; developing the
construction and consulting industry; improving management of plant and
equipment; mobilizing and allocating road sector revenues; improving
community accessibility; mitigating environmental impacts; improving road
safety; revising road sector legislation; and reviewing implementation of
ROADSIP.
(c)   Specific performance targets have now been set for the road sector under the
follow-on project which will help the Borrower better measure sector
performance. Measures include: funding made available through the fuel levy
and other road user charges; completion of road works (routine and periodic
maintenance; rehabilitation); proportion of road network in respectively good,
fair and poor condition; number and type of local contractors completing training.



- 12 -
(d)   Coordination of implementing agencies and strengthening of project management
organization and capacity in the roads sector has been increased as a direct
consequence of the project.
K.    Key Lessons Learned
27.   The key lessons leamed from the project are as follows:
(a)    A satisfactory outcome for a technical assistance project, as in this case, is most
likely where policy reform is effectively linked to investment support.
Government and local stakeholders must be effectively engaged in the
development of the reform agenda from the outset and should be able to perceive
the consequent benefits from this reform in terms of improvements in the design
and eventual implementation of the investment program.
(b)   A significant number of activities not foreseen at appraisal were completed under
the project whereas not all the specified outputs of studies identified at appraisal
were carried through. The experience of this project underlines the value of
flexibility in the development of project components - and specific activities - to
achieve project objectives. Experience also demonstrates perhaps the need to
avoid overspecifying the intended outputs from any given study, such as the
anticipated creation of a national highways authority emanating from the
transport policy study.
(c)    Sector policy and institutional reform requires political commitment, a clear
timetable and a set of realistic and achievable steps in order to be successful as
well as to be based on sound, well argued analysis of alternative approaches. All
such may not be achievable under the aegis of a single project. Effective
involvement of stakeholders not only in the consultative stage but also in the
decision making process will likely make it more sustainable in implementation,
however long the process may take.
(d)   The effectiveness of IDA's performance was enhanced by the synergies between
the preparation and implementation of the project and the development of the
RMI program in Zambia. This experience points to the value of such synergies,
and the associated incremental resources, for advancing a difficult policy agenda
whilst helping build stakeholder understanding and eventual commitment.
(e)   Despite an overall satisfactory outcome, project implementation was delayed in
the early stages. Early attention to project management and coordination
arrangements in project processing and early remedial action where such
arrangements are not performing for whatever reason may lead to considerable
benefits in terms of more timely and effective implementation performance.
Such action could cover inter a/ia appropriate institutional arrangements and
payments and incentives for staff.



- 13 -
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
TRANSPORT ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 2515-ZA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES



- 14 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial       Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                                                                        v
Sector Policies                     V
Financial Objectives                                v
Institutional Development           V
Physical Objectives                 v
Poverty Reduction
Gender Issues                                                                         V
Other Social Objectives                                                               V
Environmental Objectives                                                              V
Public Sector Management                            v
Private Sector Development          V
Other (specify)
B. Project Sustainability            Likely                  Unlikely                 Uncertain
l                            ~~~~~~~~~Highly
C. Baik Performance                   Satisfactory         Satisfactory               Deficient
I                           ~~        ~       ~      ~~~(V)  (V)                (/)        1
Identification                                              v
Preparation Assistance                                      v
Appraisal                                                   X
|    Supervision                                                 V/
1l                    |            ~~~~~~~~~~Highly
D. Borrower Performance                     Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
11                    1             ~~ ~       ~ ~~~~          ~~(V)  (V/)  (V)         1
Preparation                                                 V
Implementation
Covenant Compliance         |
Operation (if applicable)
Fl                                     Highly                                            Highly
IE. Assessment of Outcome              Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
11                           ~~~      ~      ~~(V)  (V)        (V)              (V)        1
11                                                                                                   11



- is -
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Date of      Status
Loan/Credit Title                           Purpose               Approval                ,
Highway Reconstruction, (Cr. 469-ZA)           To itnprove the Great East Road    Sept. 1966    Closed
linking Lusaka, the capital, with
the agriculturally-rich Eastem
Province and Malawi, and of the
lGreat North Road. linking the
center of Zambia with the
Northem Province and East
I_________________________________________________  Africa.                                              I
Second Highway project, (Ln. 563-ZA)           To improve the entire Tanzam     Sept. 1968     Closed
Highway to suitable standards,
with a view to developing
transport capacity to the sea tbr
landlocked Zambia
Third Highway Project, (Ln. 1566/Cr. 798-ZA)   To imp.-ove the maintenance of the   May 1978   Closed
rapidly deteriorating road network
and plan for fuiture extension of
the network
Project to Support a Road Sector Investment    To facilitate economic growth and   Oct. 1997   Active
Program (Cr. 2993-ZA)                          diversification (particularly in the
agricultural sector) through
appropriate investments in road
intfrastructure and through a
sustainable system for the
flinancing and management ot the
road network.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                Date Planned             Date Actual/Latest Estimate
Identification/Preparation                                        February 1992
Appraisal                              Septenmber 1992            September 1992
Negotiations                           April 1993                 April 1993
Board Presentation                                                June 17, 1993
Signing                                                           September 30, 1993
Effectiveness                          October 1993               November 29, 1993
Project Completion                     December 31. 1996          March 31, 19981
Credit Closing                         June 30. 1997              June 30, 1998
Some components were absorbed under the follow-on project.



- 16 -
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimates and Actual
(US$ Million)
FY93/94   FY94/95   FY95/96   FY96/97   FY97/98         FY98/99
Appraisal Estimate -
Cumulative                2.12       5.1        7.6        8.5        8.5          8.5
Annual                     2.1        3.0       2.5        0.9        0.0          0.0
Actual - Annual            (.0        1.2       3.3        1.5        1.5          0.4
Actual - Cumulative        0.0        1.2       4.5        6.0        7.5          7.9
Actual as % of Estimate    0.0        24        59         71         88           93
Date of Final Disbursement                                                     12/16/1998
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
No indicators for project implementation were defined in the President 's Report They were not
required as standard procedure at the time of appraisal
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Noindi cators forproject operationswere definedinthe President's Report. Theywerenotrequiredas
standard procedure at the time of appraisal.
2   Including US$1.0 million initial deposit into the Special Account.



- 17 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined                   Purpose as Redefined/and or as
Study                      at Appraisal                               Added-on                               Status                       Impact of Study
Part A:
1. Policy Support     a. Administrative reclassification ofthe    a. No change.                           Completed. draft final report    Most recommendations were accepted
A National Road       road network-                                                                     submitted April 1996, final  by Govemment. Action on
Transport Policy    b. Establishment of an autonomous     b. At draft final report stage, Government    report September 1996        administrative reclassification of roads to
Study.                Highway Authority to take the         determined that as a first step existing road  followed by two addenda to    be taken in 1999, Action on further
responsibility for managing the entire  sector institutions would be restructured and  the final report       institutional and financing reforms
road network;                         strengthened and that the creation of a semi-                           incorporated in Government's letter of
autonomou.s authority would come as a second                            road sector policy of March 1997.
step and be carried out as an extension to the
mandate of the NRB. Final report was amended
to reflect this policy decision.
c. arrangement for road financing     c. At draft final report stage, government clarified
including introduction of an explicit  that road maintenance would be funded by fuel
road tariffand preparation of Cabinet  levy and by other road user charges channeled
Paper for the above arrangements;    through the Road Fund. The study was to help
and                                   determine ways to set these charges and how
best to collect and allocate the proceeds.
d. preparation of a draft Highway     d. Not applicable. although some preparatory
Authority Bill for consideration by   work was carried out.
Parliament.
Added on Studies
under Part A
2. Road Renumbering                                          Carry out renumbering of roads in line with   Completed after delay.       Numbering system is to be installed on
System.                                                   SATCC standards.                                                           the HMS.
3. Preparation of a                                          Setting-up of National Task Force and         Completed with submission    Workshop was extremely effective in
Road Sector                                               commissioning of consultancies to prepare     of final reports and holding of   generating stakeholder support for
Investment Program                                        position papers to formulate project proposal to  workshop in February 1996.    ROADSIP and for defining the broad
(ROADSIP).                                                access donor funding to launch a medium term                               parameters of ROADSIP. Workshop
Road Sector Investment Program. Papers were                               recommendations on institutional reform
presented at Roads 2001 workshop, February                                were not accepted in full by Government
1996 in Lusaka.                                                           however.
4. Preparation of                                            From the starting point of the conmuunique of the    Completed with submission  Report was instrumental in getting
ROADSIP Bankable                                          above referenced workshop, a small group put  of draft document in June    Cabinet approval and was the basis of
Document.                                                 together the bankable document which formed the   1996.                    the undertakings made by Government
basis of a Cabinet decision in favor of ROADSIP                           in the March 1997 letter of sector policy.
in February 1997 and which has been used to
solicit donor interest in funding of ROADSIP.
5. Preparation of an                                         Committee prepared environmental (technical and   Completed. Guidelines    Guidelines are available and are in use
Environmental                                             operational) guidelines for road rehabilitation and   finalized in July 1997 and  now. Environmental management unit is
Mitigation Plan and                                       maintenance works and helped determine work   formally adopted by          up and running.
Guidelines.                                               program for environment management unit to be    government in September
set up in RD.                                 1997.
6. Road Safety Action                                        Study of road safety situation, constraints to  Completed. Workshop held   Government has agreed with the study
Plan.                                                     improvement, and preparation of a detailed time  October 1997 to discuss draft  recommendations. Implementation and
frame and cost estimate for a three year action  findings and final report sent   funding of major initiatives is to start in
program.                                     out in March 1998.            1999.



- 18 -
Purpose as Defined                   Purpose as Redefined/and or as
Study                       at Appraisal                               Added-on                                Status                        Impact of Study
7. Miscellaneous                                             Certain activities for which financing was     Completed, final documents   Documents finalized after significant
Preparatory                                               provided out of a PHRD grant (no. 29564) for the   submitted in draft in March  stakeholder input are being used in
Activities for                                            preparation of ROADSIP were completed using    1998 finalized in April 1998.    practice.
ROADSIP.                                                  TETAP funding. i.e. the preparation of a project
implementation plan and manual. and of an
economic evaluation manual.
Part B:
I. Project Preparation.   a. Detailed engineering and preparation  a. Additional economic analysis was carried out  a. For Great North Road:
a. Detailed engineering  of tender documents of road            on the Great North Road to determine feasible  Preliminary design reports    Follow-up project to support ROADSIP
of Road               rehabilitation works to be carried out  rehabilitation and maintenance options.      completed Nov.-Dec. 1995.   provides funding for most elements of
Rehabilitation        in the first year ofthe proposed multi                                                Final design reports      the Cireat North Road rehabilitation
Works: and             year road rehabilitation program                                                    completed September 1996.   program. Works should he carried out
b. Luangwa Bridge        (RRP). i.e. rehabilitation of the Great                                              but subsequently revised in   from 1999. Bids were under evaluation
Feasibility and        North Road (Kapiri Mposhi to                                                         order to take account of   in last quarter of 1998. SI of the Great
Engineering Study.     Nakonde) in four sections. i.e. Kapiri-                                             additional options and cost    North Road is already under construction
Serenje (SI). Serenje-Mpika (S2).                                                   savings. Draft tender       with DANIDA funding.
Mpika-Chinsali (S3), Chinsali-                                                      documents completed in
Nakonde (S4).                                                                       March 1998.
b. Engineering and preparation of tender   b. Luangwa Bridge rehabilitation was taken on for   b. Project completed with
documents for Luangwa Bridge if rate  funding by DANII)A and was thus dropped        DANIDA funding.
of retum is deemed satistfactory after  from the project.
feasibility study .
Added on Studies                                              Detailed engineering was carried out for the  Lusaka A and B desip          Road Fund resources were used for
under Part B                                                  requirements of an accelerated urban road     reports were completed in     I usaka Group A roads which were
2. Preliminary                                               rehabilitation program added in April 1997. i.e.  August 1997 and seven towns   completed September 199X  ID)A ageed
Engineering for Urban                                         Lusaka Group A and B and seven other urban    design reports completed     to finance Ndola and Kitwe under follow
Road Rehabilitation                                           centers (Kitwe. Ndola. Kabwe. l .ivingstone,  April 1998                    on credit 2993 - Project to Support
Program.                                                      Solwezi, Mansa, Kasama).                                                    ROADSIP
Part C:
]. Institutional
Developmget.
a. Design and          a. To help Govemment adapt technical   a. No change, except that project input into annual   a. Interim report completed  a. System has been installed, training
Implementation of a    standards of road maintenance to      road condition surveys and data analysis was   May 1996. survey update      carried out and about 11 000 kms of
Highway                sustainable economic levels based on  increased to compensate for govemment         report completed March        roads input. Sustainability ofthe
Management             traffic.                              resource limitations.                          1997.                        system is still in question due to
System:                                                                                                                                  inadequate management and lack of
budget resources. Management has
not been contracted out to private
sector as originally agreed.
b. Equipment           b. To explore how RD's equipment       b. No change.                                 b. Final report submitted     b. Key agreements on further action are
Management and         could be managed and maintained in                                                   October 1996.                  contained in the letter of sector
Maintenance Study:     an etficient manner.                                                                                                policy of March 1997. Some
progress to date on implementation
of reconmmendations.



- 19 -
Purpose as Defined                     Purpose as Redefined/and or as
Study                        at Appraisal                                  Added-on                                  Status                         Impact of Studv
c. Study of Local       c. To establish the range and competence    c. No change.                                 c. Final report submitted July    c Key agreements on further action are
Consulting and          of domestic construction and                                                             1996.                          contained in the letter ot'sector policy
Construction            consulting firms.                                                                                                       of Mlarch 1997. Some progress on
Industry;                                                                                                                                       implementation of'recommendations.
establishment ot'a National
Construction Council (NCC).
d. Establishment of a    d. To establish the section, carry out a  d. Scope of work was increased to include: i) full    d Mid 'I'enn reports   d. ERS established and tully staffed as
Feeder Road             feeder road inventory and prepare        feeder road surveys in all 9 provinces and the  submitted D)ec. 1996.           integral part ot' I)ISS in MIL-.
Section (FRS) in the    prioritized maintenance programs.        preparation of rehabilitation programs for IIDA  regular monthly progress       External assistance has been
MLGH; and                                                       funding in 3 provinces (Western. ILuapula and    reports submitted. feeder       particularly eflective.
Northem): and ii) inventory of up to 3.000      road surveys inventories
kilometers of urban roads.                      completed. preparation ot'
rehabilitation progr.uns
achieved.
e. Assistance for       e. To ensure project accounts are        e. NRB took over project accounting February     e. Reports submitted on or     e Accounting s' stem and audits h.cve
project accounting      properly maintained and that annual       1995. audits undertaken by private finm         ahead of schedule.             helped accountability and
and audit               audits are canried out.                                                                                                 transparency of use of project funds.
Added-on Studies
under Part C
2. Project                                                       a. Payment of salarv and henefits of Advisor in  at Completed.                  a IF1 'ctive
Management.                                                      M LGH up to June 1994
b. Payment of salary and benefitts of' Executise  b Completed.                 hb Effective
Secretary of the NRB (TETAP Coordinator)
January 1995 to December 1997.
3. Support to                                                    Engineer recruited to launch the community road  Ongoinig since October 1997.    Ongoing activity. at an early stage with
Community Roads                                                component of ROAD)SIP under the Social           will he absorbed hv follo%s on   tirst projcAts approved in I .uapula
Development.                                                   Recovery Project. TETAP proceeds used trom       credit.                        province in nid- 199X
October 1997 to effectiveness of follow-on credit
for ROADSIP.



- 20 -
Table 8: Project Costs
Appraisal Estlnate                                Actual
(IJS$M)                                     (US$M)
Item                       Local Costs   Foreiyl Costs !    Total      Local Costs   Foreip Costs       Total
National Road Transport Policy Studv( 0.2                       ()              0.7            0.2           0.6            (.8
First Year Road Rehabilitatioi/ I                 0.2            1.(            1.2            0.2           1.9            2.1
Luangwa Bridge/2                                  0.2            0.0           (0.8          (0.0            0.0             .
Highway Management System                         ().5           1.3            1.X           (1.2           1.2            1.4
Equipment Management and Mainteniance             0.1           0(.3            0.4           0.1            0.3            0.4
Study
Construction and Consulting Indtistry Study       0.1           (0.2            0.3           (.1            0.2            0.3
Feeder Roads Section                              (.9            1.4            2.3           (1.6            1.7           2.3
Project Accounting and Auditing                   0.(           (1. I           0I            ().0           (). I          0.1
Additional Policy Studies                         ().0          0()            ().()          ().3            0.2           0.5
Additional Project Preparatioi                    0.()            .0           ()             (). 1          0).2            (.3
Additional Institutional Development              0.()           0.0           ()..           (.1           (0.3            0.4
Total Base Costs                                  2.2            5.4            7.6            1.9           6.7            8.6
Price Continigencies                              0.2            0.5            0.7
Physical Contingencies                            0.2           ().5            0.7
Total PrjectCost                                  2.6            6.4            9.1)           1.9           6.7            8.6
/I  TETAP did the engineering study for the Great North Roads - Sections I. 11. Ill & IV. DANIDA took over rehabilitation ol
Section 1, 197 km at a cost of DKK 275 million or about US$45.8 million equivalenit.
/2  This work was takeni over by DANIDA at a cost of DKK 15 million or about UJS$2.5 million.



- 21 -
Table 9: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate                       Actual/Latest Estimate
(US$M)                                    (US$M)
Local      Foreign         Total          Local       Foreign         Total
Source                    Costs       Costs                          Costs       Costs
IDA (By Category)
1. Policy Support                                   (.8                                        1.3
2. Rural Roads
Development                                          2.4                                       2.3
3. Institutional
Development &                                        4.3                                        4.3
Project Preparation
4. Unallocated                                       1.0
IDA Total                  2.1          6.4             8.5           1.4          6.5             7.9
Government Total          (.5           0.0             0.5          0.5           0.2             0.7
Grand Total                2.6          6.4             9.0           1.9          6.7             8.6
Table 10: Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic rate of rate of return was calculated at appraisal. as it was not appropriate for this type of project.



- 22 -
Table 11: Status of Legal Covenants
Original    Revised
Credit               Covenant    Present    Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Agreement  Section       Type        Status       Date        Date                        Description of Covenants                            Comments
Credit      3.01 (a)       10           C                               The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of'the
Project as set fbrth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end,
shall carry out Parts A, B and C of the Project through MCT, MWS
and MLG. respectively, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate technical. administrative, enviromnenta
and tinancial practices, and shall provide. promptly as needed, the
funds, tacilities, services and other resources required fbr the Projec
3.01(b)        o0          C                               Without limitation upon the provisions of'paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
ot'this Agreement.
3.02           5           C                               Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of'the
consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be govemed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 of this Agreement.
3.03           5.9         CD        12/31/94    10/15/95  (a) The Borrower and the Association shall, not later than l)ecember Review was delayed by slow
31. 1994, or at such later date as the Borrower and the Association start-up of-project. During
shall agree upon, carry out a joint in-depth review of Project  October 1995 mission,
implementation (the Mid-term Review), as set out in paragraph 5 of additional activities were
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. (b) Not later than on month prior to  agreed: (a) to refocus and
the Mid-Term Review, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association accelerate project imple-
a report in order to prepare for such review, commenting on project mentation; and (b) to utilize
implementation, with a specific evaluation of the effectiveness of   cost savings.
implementation procedure and proposals to change such, if any. (c)
Following such review, the Borrower undertakes to act promptly an(
diligently to take any corrective action deemed necessary in order to
remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation ol the Project,
or to implement such other measures as may have been agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Association in Furtherance of the
objectives of the Project.



- 23 -
Original    Revised
Credit               Covenant    Present    Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Agreement  Section       Type        Status       Date        Date                        Description of Covenants                            Commnents
3.04           5,9         CP                              The Borrower shall: (a) promptly, and in any event not later than    As discussed in Table 7,
three months, atler the receipt of any study carried out under the    follow-up action on study re-
Project and Financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, submit to the commendations has yet to
Association one copy of such study together with: (i) the Borrower' take place in some cases.
detailed evaluation thereof-, and (ii) the Borrower's assessment of thd
practicability of implementing the study's recommendations. and (b
implement the recommendations of such studies as mutually agreed
,upon between the Borrower and the Association.
4.0 1(a)      1,2.3        C                               Tlhe Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate    Pertfonance X was generally
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound  sound. although audit of 1997
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in  accounts revealed diversion
respect of the Project, of the departments of the Borrower    of project tunds. This was
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.  subsequently resolved in a
manner satisfactory to I[)A
however.
4.01 (b)      1,2,3        C                               The Borrower shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in Over the period 1996/8. the
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the Special  borroxA er generally submitted
Account, for each tiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriat audits well in advance ot'the
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors   covenanted target dates
acceptable to the Association: (ii) furnish to the Association as soon
as available but, in any case, not later than six months after the end
of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably request. and (iii) furnish to the Association suchl
other information concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably requesl
Covenant Types: I = Accounts/Audits; 2  Financial.Performance/Revenue Generation from Beneficiaries; 3 = Flow and Utilization of Project Funds; 4  Counterpart Funding;
5 = Management Aspects of the Project or Executing Agency; 6 = Environmental Covenants; 7 = Involuntary Resettlement; 8 = Indigenous People;
9 = Monitoring, Review and Reporting; 10 = Project Implementation not covered by categories 1-9; 11 = Sectoral or cross-sectional budgetary or other resource allocation;
12 = Sectoral or cross-sector policy regulatory/ institutional action; 13 = Other.
Present Statuts:  C =Covenant complied with; CD =Complied with after delay; CP =Complied with partially; NC =Not complied with



- 24 -
Table 12: Compliance with Operational Manual Statement
[   There was compliance i'ith all pertinent Banik Operations lalnual statements throuhout the project cycle.
Table 13: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Plaiined                 Revised                 Actual
Stage of                      l_____
Project Cycle         Weeks         US$         Weeks        US$        Weeks       US$
Through Appraisal                                                              35.8        4.6
Appraisal-Board                                                                23.0       75.3
Board-Effectiveness                                                            5.8        18.8
Supervision                                      1                             92.1       355.6
Completion                                                                     3.8         8.0
TOTAL                                            1                           160.5       462.3



- 25 -
Table 14: Bank Resources - Missions
Perfornance Rating
Number of                      Specialized       Participated
Stage of Project Cycle       Mon./       Persons      Days in          Staff Skills      in Previous   Implementation    Develop.
Year                     Field          Represented          Mission          Status       Objectives                       Conmients
(yes/no)
Through Appraisal                                                                                 .                                       N.A.
Appraisal through Board                                                                                                                   N.A.
approval
Board approval through                                                                                                                    N.A.
etYHctiveness
Supervision I                    Oct. 93        2            4                PIE                Yes              S               S       Credit not yet eftective. This is the first supervision mission.
ECO'TM                   e                                    Administrative problem (appointment of a new Project
Coordinator) due chantges in the Ministries; objections raised
by local consulting finms the concem the pmhability of
contlict of interest in awarding contracts.
Supervision 2                    Jun 95         2            6            SR ECO.!TM             Yes              S               S       Cumbersome Govemment bureaucracy - the Zambia
TE                No                                       National Tender Board delay in signing the Tender
Contracts, Unavailability of Goverunment counterpart funds
the I 0% required for the consultancies managed by the
Roads Department.
Supervision 3                    Oct 95         4            10            SOPOF TM              No                S              S       No major problem. Major progress has been made
Roads Adviser          Yes                                      since the last supervision mission since NRB took
TI'               No                                       over coordination of project.
HE                No
Supervision 4                    Mar 96         7            5             SOPOF`rM              Yes               S              S       Use of credit proceeds to finance preparation work for
Roads Adviser          Yes                                      ROADSIP as agreed.
1'P               Yes
I IE             Yes
ECO(x2             Nox2
EnviroTmentalist         No
Supervision 5                    Jul 96         1            5            SOPOF/TM               Yes               S              S       Continued Progress being made in most areas;
however lack of counterpart staff for consultants for
I capacity building was a problem.
Supervision 6                  Mar 97           3            5             SOPOF/TM              Yes               S              S       Delays in payment of contractors. Coordinator
HE                Yes                                      working without a contract. Follow-up on action
ECO                No                                       plans needed
Supervision 7                  Jun 97           2            4             SOPOF/TM              Yes               S              S       Continued problem with lock or quality of
TP                No                                       counterpart staff
Supervision 8                  Oct. 1997        5            5             SOPOF/TM              Yes               S              S       Financial Problems. Diversion of project funds,
TP                Yes                                      delays in submitting disbursement applications being
HE                No                                       addressed however, follow-up on action plans needed
ECO                No
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   TA  N o
Completion                     July 1998                                   SOPOF/TM              Yes               S              S       ICR Mission.
2            10               ECO                No



- 26 -
Status:
I  Problem Free   HS    Higlily Satisfactory    2    Satisfactory  S  Moderate Problems   U  Unsatisfactory  N/A     Not available
Key to Supervision:
Economist                                                         ECO
Senior Economist                                                  SR. ECO
Transport Engineer                                                TE
Senior Operations Officer/Task Manager                            SOPOF/TM
Transport Planner                                                 TP
Highway Engineer                                                  HE
PIE                                                               Principal Infrastructure Engineer
Team Assistant                                                    TA



THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
TRANSPORT ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART III AIDE MEMOIRE
Introduction
1.    A World Bank mission visited Zambia over the period July 13-26. 1998 for the purpose of
reviewing with Govemment the preparation of the implementation completion report (ICR) for the
Transport Engineering and Technical Assistance Project (TETAP) IDA Credit 2515. The mission
comprised Mr. Stephen Brushett (Task Team Leader and Senior Operations Officer) and Ms. Rosemary
Cubagee (Consultant).
2.    The mission wishes to thank the Zambian Govemment for courtesies and cooperation extended
throughout its stay. The mission wishes to particularly acknowledge the assistance provided by the
Ministry of Communications and Transport (MCT), by the agency responsible for project coordination,
the National Roads Board (NRB) and by the other implementing ministries, the Ministrv of Works and
Supply (MWS) and the Ministrv of Local Government and Housing (MLGH).
3.    The mission acknowledges receipt of the Govemment's contribution to the ICR in five parts that
is: overview report from the TETAP Coordinator, detailed agency reports from MCT, MWS and MLGH,
and summary financial information. The mission makes particular note of the fact that meetings were
held with the TETAP Technical Committee under the chainranship of the TETAP Coordinator and with
the individual task managers to: review the Govemnment's contribution and to mutually: identify the
critical issues raised during project implementation: assess the outcome of the project and its impact on
the transport sector: and to determine the key lessons learned from project experience.
Development Objectives and Performance
4.    The primary objectives of the project were to design and implement transport policy and
institutional reforms necessary to create a sustainable, efficient system for managing roads. This included
reforms to (i) put the financing of roads on a sustainable long-term basis and enhance opportunities for
private sector participation in the road sector; and (ii) strengthen the Govemment's capacity to plan and
coordinate public expenditures for roads and monitor sector performance. The project also provided for
the preparation of the first year of a proposed follow-up road sector investment operation, that is
ROADSIP. Key indicators of development impact included: (a) completion of studies and the production
of action plans for the implementation of key recommendations which have strong stakeholder support;
(b) restructured and strengthened road authorities and agencies which have appropriate tools, trained
personnel and adequate financial resources to carrv out planning and implementation of road works; and
(c) improvement in road maintenance performance measured by the volume of expenditure and the quality
of the work carried out.
5 .    Notwithstanding the results of the more detailed analysis to be included in the ICR, performance
against these objectives is judged to have been satisfactory, with some provisos. All project studies have
been completed and action plans have been prepared. The degree of internal consultation in the
development of recommendations for policy and institutional reform has been uniformly high.



- 28 -
Govemment capacity to fully and effectively carry out all identified reforms is however limited and there
have been delays in following up on agreed action plans in some areas. The mission signaled the
particular concems in the area of effective action to ensure the sustainability of improvements in the
highway management system (HMS) and to accelerate the restructuring of the plant and vehicle pools.
Commitment to carry out reform however is indicated bv the inportant steps already achieved. notably
the establishment of the Road Fund and the National Roads Board. and by the agenda outlined in the
Government's letter of sector policv of March 21. 1997. One important element of this agenda is
completing the process of policy reform ( in particular the process of commercializing the maniagement of
the road sector) and of carrying out the concomitant changes to the legislative framework. In both these
areas, the Government was not able to agree with all the proposals developed as a result of a project study.
Current Project Status, Issues and Problems
6.     Project Completion and Credit Closing Dates. The mission noted that the Bank had agreed to the
Government's request for a one vear extension of the credit closing date to June 30. 1998. The extension
was granted to facilitate completion of a number of ongoing activities. With the exception of the
consultancy support to the feeder road program and to the HMS. whvhich will be absorbed bv the follow-on
Project to Support ROADSIP (Credit 2993). all activities were essentially completed by the end of the first
quarter of 1998.
7.    Project Management and Accounting. The mission generally commended the exemplary
performance of the Government, through the Coordinator, in providing regular reporting on the progress
of the project. The mission noted that significant improvements had been obtained in project financial
management since the last project review mission in October 1997. Strengthening of NRB accounting
staff had facilitated a solution to the problem of delays in the preparation of satisfactory project accounts
and related delays in the processing on invoices and submission of disbursement applications. Accounts
had now been prepared up to June 30, 1998 and the recovery of all amounts remaining in the Special
Account is expected to be realized by end July. The timely preparation of monthly accounts and of
withdrawal applications, including Special Account replenishments, had now been achieved over the past
six months. Performance on audit was very satisfactory with the report on the fiscal year to December 31,
1997 submitted well within the dates provided in the credit agreement. The mission learned that one
qualification on this audit report, concerning the unauthorized disbursement of funds from the Special
Account, had now been addressed and the funds had been reinstated. As of June 30, 1998, unaudited total
disbursements are put at US$7.66 million equivalent of which: Part A - US$1.13 mn; Part B - US$4.52
mn; and Part C - US$2.01 mn. While the credit is nominally fully committed, it is anticipated that there
will be cancellation of a portion of the credit proceeds.
8.    Status of Implementation of Project Components. The following summarizes the status of project
components according to the findings of the mission.
PART A
Transport Policy Study
The study was completed, with two addenda to the final report, in April 1997. Certain
recommendations of the report are expected to be implemented. i.e. concerning road
reclassification. Study output on road financing and management was however not satisfactory
and significant progress is still to be made under the Project to Support ROADSIP to address the
ongoing concerns about the institutional framework for roads.



- 29 -
Task Force Consultancies
These were successfully completed and were useful inputs to the February 1996 Roads 2001
Workshop and to a stakeholder driven process of preparation of ROADSIP.
Bankable Document
This was successfullv completed in July 1996 and formed the basis of an eventual Cabinet
decision in February 1997 in support of ROADSIP.
Environmental Management Support
Support to the Environmental Management Committee helped adoption of environmental
guidelines of the road sector and of an environmental mitigation plan for ROADSIP. Terms of
reference were prepared for an environmental management unit to be housed initially in MWS.
Road Renumbering S)ystem
Govemment has made a decision to adopt SATCC standard road numbering system based on the
consultants' report submitted after a long delav. There will be implications for the amendment of
the Roads and Road Traffic Act. The new numbering svstem should be installed on the HMS.
Road Safety Action Plan
The consultant completed the draft road safety action plan which has benefited from the outcome
of a stakeholder workshop held early October 1997. The Government has reviewed the report and
this has been adopted in final form in January 1998. incorporating also the views of the Bank.
The mission noted that clarification of the institutional structure, strengthening of the National
Road Safety Council (NRSC) secretariat and the development of a plausible local financing
approach were the critical factors for a sustainable strategy for road safety. Funding of the various
measures defined for Phase I of the plan. whose total cost is put at US$ 6 mn, is in the process of
identification.
PART B
Equipment Management and Maintenance Situdy
The study was successfully completed and many of its recommendations are incorporated in the
Government's letter of sector policy. Follow-up on agreed actions has to be accelerated however.
Construction and Constulting Industry St7udy
The study was successfully completed and many of its recommendations are incorporated in the
Government's letter of sector policv. Follow-up on agreed actions have to be accelerated however
together with the effective establishment of the National Construction Council (NCC).
Serenje to Mpika (Section 2) engineering



-30 -
The process of prequalifying contractors is essentially complete and, with the tender documents
ready since March 1998, invitation to bid is imminent. The review of design and technical
specification was completed after significant delavs. A number of options were studied and
additional engineering and economic analyses carried out.
Mpika to Chinsali (Section 3) and Chinsali to Nakonde (Section 4) engineering
The invitation to bid on these two sections was issued June 30, 1998. The review of design and
technical specification was completed after significant delays. A number of options were studies
and additional engineering and economic analyses carried out.
Accelerated urban road engineering
Design and tender document preparation for Lusaka A and B has been completed. Lusaka A civil
works have been carried out under domestic financing, the scope of work having been increased to
include certain elements under Lusaka B. Preliminary engineering and design for selected roads
have been completed in seven other towIIs - Ndola, Kitwe. Livingstone, Kabwe, Kasama, Solwezi,
Mansa. IDA financing may be provided under the Project to Support ROADSIP for Kitwe and
Ndola.
Highway Management .System
The Govemment is continuing to work on an action plan for the sustainability of the HMS
including the need for further extemal support for training and equipment. This is discussed in
more detail under the Aide Memoire for the Project to Support ROADSIP as the HMS is an
ongoing element of the sector program.
PART C
Feeder Road Support Program
The contract of the consultant extends to December 31, 1998. Support provided has been
satisfactory and objectives have generallv been met. albeit with some delays. Consideration is
now being given to what further support may be necessary to ensure sustainability and further
capacity building in MLGH and in local authorities. The urban road inventories are underway
under an amendment to the existing contract with the foreign consultant. The Government had
requested an extension in the scope of wvork of the local consultants given that a larger number of
feeder roads than originally expected had been identified for survey in the four provinces
concerned. This vork has now been satisfactorily completed.
Follow-up on Previouslv Agreed Actions
9.    The current status of actions which were agreed at the time of the October 1997 mission are given
below:
By the Government
(a)    Submit report on remedial action to be take to restore project accounting and to replenish
the Special Account by November 30. Complete accounting system improvements
including contract execution monitoring function by December 31.



- 31 -
Status - Achieved
(b)    Produce provisional accounts to September 30. 1997 and submit to the Bank bv
November 30. Produce provisional accounts to December 3I1.1997 and submit to the
Bank by January 31. 1998.
Status - Achieved
(c)    Arrange audit of accounts to December 3 1. 1997 and submit to the Bank for review bv
March 31. 1998.
Status - Achieved
(d)    Prepare final revised disbursement forecast for credit proceeds and Government
counterpart funds to the completion of the project by December 15. Prepare monthly
project/financial status report and withdrawal/replenishment applications unitil further
notice.
Status - Achieved, accounts shou/ld be closed and/fidly reconciled by October
1998
(e)    Prepare request to Bank by November 30 to amend the credit agreement to permit under
Part B of the project works to be carried out by the MLGH (accelerated urban road
engineering).
Status - Achieved. amendment has been signed
(fe    Submit revised tender documents for Serenje to Mpika for Bank no objection by January
16, 1998.
Status - Achieved, with some delay
(g)    Submit draft tender documents for Mpika to Chinsali and Chinsali to Nakonde
engineering to Bank for no objection by January 15. 1998.
Status - Achieved, with some delay
(h)    Submit final version of the road safety action plan and agreed recommendations for
follow-up by December 15.
Status - Achieved, final report dated .January 1998
(i)    Follow-up on agreed action plan for strengthening operation of HMS.
Status - In progress,,further action needed here
By the Bank
(a)    Provide support, inter alia through the Resident Mission, to accounting system
improvements and to Special Account replenishment.



- 32 -
Status - Ongoing
(b)    Review provisional accounts to September 3O. 1997 by December 15. Review
provisional accounts to December 31.1997 by February 15. 1998.
Status - Achieved, financial management specialist in Resident Mission is
carrying out this task
(c)    Review audit of accounts to December31. 1997 by April 15. 1998.
Status - Achieved. as above
(d)    Review request to amend the credit agreemilenit to permit uLnder Part B of the pro ject works
to be carried out by the MLGH (accelerated urban road engineering) by December 3 1.
Status - Achieved
(e)    Review for no objection the revised tender documents for Serenje to Mpika by Janiuary
30, 1998.
Status - Achieved, with some delay
(fe    Review for no objection proposals for completion of Mpika to Chinsali and Chinsali to
Nakonde engineering bv January 30. 1998.
Status - Achieved. with some delay
(g)    Provide comments on final version of road safetv action plan and agreed recommendation
by January 15. 1998.
Status - Achieved
(h)    Review for no objection by November 15 request for extension of scope of work of local
consultants for feeder road survey in four provinces.
Status - Achieved, extended works have now been sati#s/ctorily completed
(i)    Review follow-up on agreed action plan for strengthening operation of HMS.
Status - Ongoing, to be pursued under Project to Support ROADSIP
Agreements and Recommendations
10.   The mission agreed with the Govemment on the following next steps for the project:
By the Government
(i)    Submit final project cost estimate and sources and sources of financing for
the project, including Government counterpart funds, by July 31, 1998.
(ii)   Submit withdrawal applications to fully recover the Special Account



-33 -
balance by July 31, 1998.
(iii)   Submit any other withdrawal applications for direct disbursement by
September 1, 1998.
(iv)   Close project accounts and submit for final audit by September 30, 1998.
(v)    Submit final contribution to the ICR, including 10 page overview and
executive summary, by September 30. 1998.
(vi)   Fumish comments on Bank's draft ICR documentation by October 31,
1998.
By the Bank
(i)    Complete preparation of draft ICR documentation and submit to
government by September 30, 1998.
(ii)   Submit final ICR documentation to Board by December 31, 1998.
Conclusion
11    The mission is the final one for TETAP. The ICR package is to be completed in draft final form
by October 31, 1998 and submitted to the Bank's Board no later than December 31, 1998. Project
accounts are in the process of being closed. with the final disbursement of funds to take place no later than
October 31. 1998.



- 34 -
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
TRANSPORT ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2515-ZA)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART IV: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
1.0     INTRODUCTION
Transport Engineering and Technical Assistance Project (TETAP) was financed through a Development Credit
Agreement signed between the Republic of Zambia and World Bank (IDA) Intemational Development Association on
September, 30, 1993 for an amount in various currencies equivalent to 6,200,000 Special Drawing Rates (SDR),to
help finance an engineering and technical assistance project for road and transport infrastructure.
2.0     OBJECTIVES
The prqject had three main objectives . The first was to design and implement transport sector policy refonns ,in
particular through (a) a program of regulatory and institutional ref'onn to improve the management of the national road
network and to put the financing of roads on a sustainable long term basis, and (b) enhaniced opportunities for private
sector participation in the rehabilitationi and maintenance of roads. The second objective was to strengthen the
Goverunent's capacity to plan and co-ordinate public expenditures for roads and to monitor sector performance. The
third was to carry out the preparatory engineering workt for the first year program of a proposed multi year Roads
Rehabilitation Project (RRP).
3.0     IMPLEMENTATION
Under this project there were three parts. Part A was on Policy Support under the Ministry of Communications and
Transport. Part B was on Institutional Development and Project Operation under the Ministry of Works and Supply
and Part C was on Rural roads Development under the Ministry of Local Government and Housing.
The implementationi of'the Project was delayed until Febnuary. 1995. The Committee of Ministers charged the National
Roads Board with the responsibility for co-ordinating the implementation of the Project in March, 1995, with Task
Managers in each of the tlhee Ministries managing component of projects under respective Ministries.
4.0     PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Project Description as per staft' appraisal report is reproduced below:-
4.1     Policy Support
Project description as per staff Appraisal report is reproduced below:-
A national transport Policy study, which will carry out an administrative reclassification of the road network
(much of which was ungazetted). work out the detailed implications of establishing an autonomous Highway
Authority to take over responsibility for managing the entire road network in Zambia ,propose arrangements
for road financing, including the possible introduction of an explicit tariff, followed by preparation of a
cabinet paper summarising the above arrangements and the subsequent preparation of a draft Highway
Authority Bill for consideration by Parliament. US $ 0.8 million or 9% of total project cost was allocated.



- 35 -
4.2     Project Preparation
Detailed engineering of road rehabilitation works will be carried out under the proposed RRP first year
program ,based on the five year priority program identified in the recently completed Road Maintenance,
Organization and Training Study (RMOT ),and the Luangwa bridge feasibility and engineering study.
US$2.4 Million or 27 % of'total project cost was allocated.
4.3     Institutional Development
Design and implementationi of' a highway management svstem  .including reclassification of roads as
mentioned above: an equipment management and maintenance study to explore how Road's departnent
equipment could be managed and maintained in an et'ticienit manner, a study of' the local consulting and
construction industmy to establish the range and comiipetence ot' domestic construction and consulting finns,
identify any constraints hampering their developmenit, and prepare an action plan for removing constraints to
industry development; establishment ot' a feeder roads section (FRS) within NLG, which will cover roads
managed by Rural District Councils (RDCs).including channiiellinig futinds from the development budget and
inproving generation of local revenues tor maintenance ot' RDC roads: and assistance to the implementing
agencies in maintaining the project accotilnts and to Ministry of' Finance (MOF) for auditing the accounts.
US$5.8 Million or 64 % of total project costs was allocated.
Studies included in the project under three areas are detailed in annexes 1,2, and 3 attached.
5.0     PROJECT PERFORMANCE
5.1     Policy support
A National Transport policy was carried out with following outcome:
5.1.1    Road Classif ication
Administrative reclassitication of road netwvork recommended by the Consultant was accepted by
the Government but is vet to be implemented.
5.1.2    Highway Authority Bill
Detailed implications of establishhig an autoniomotus Highway Authority (NHA) managing the
entire road network in Zambia was worked out by the Consultant through stake holder consultation
A Highway Authority Bill was also prepared but the Cabinet did not approve Instead the
Government decided to strengthen the National Roads Board established by Govenument in 1994
by giving it more functions including those that would have been performed by NHA. By mid term
review the Government will assess whether there will be a need to establish the NHA.
5.1.3   Introduction of an explicit road tariff
The Government introduced fuel levy in May 1993 as an explicit road tariff which was increased
gradually from KIO per litre in 1993 to K 30 per litre in 1994 ,to K40 per litre in 1996 and to 15 %
of whole sale price in 1997.
The Govermment did therefore implement transport sector policy reforms through regulatory and
Institutional reformns by setting up of National Roads Board with private sector participation, and
strengthening it by vesting additional functions to improve the management of National road
network. The Govermnent did put the financing of roads on a sustainable long term basis through
the introduction of fuel levy as an explicit tariff dedicated for Maintenance and gradually increasing
it with a vision to make it self financing Maintenance. The Govermnent has constituted a Task
Force to revise the Road Act Cap 464 which will incorporate the reclassification of roads,
Institutional and Financial reforms accepted by the Govermnent The total cost of the study was
US$0.66M as against allocation of US$0.8 Million.



- 36 -
5.2     Project Preparation
Detailed engineering Study of Great North Road trom Kapiri Mposhi to Nakonde under the proposed RRP
first year Program was undertaken by four Consultanits at a cost of US$2.12 Million compared to US $ 2.7
Million allocated.
In addition to the above, one of the most outstanding outcome was the preparation of a ten year Road Sector
Investment Programune (ROADSIP). A National Task Force was set up with private and public sector
partnership under the leadership of National Roads Board to prepare a Bankable Document to access funding
from Road tUsers. Govermnent. World Bank and Doonors tor a multi year Road Rehabilitation Program. The
Project aimed at addressing all the ft:cets ot Road Sector in order to bring about total quality managemnent.
Thus an Environmelntal Management Study. Road Safety Management Study. and Road Numbering and
Mapping Study were undertaken as part iofpro ject preparationi at a cost of US$ 335.71() bringing the total cost
of project preparation to UJS $ 2.46 M. These four studies were outside the original project design anid wvere
additional studies undertaken withini the project cost.
The Government has launched the first tive year phase of a ten year ROADSIP with pledged funds to the
tune of US$45() Million from Road IJsers. Govenunent. World Bank and Donor Community. Government
has initiated action to  implement the action plan on enviroiunenital Manageiment. Road Safety, Road
numbering and Mapping System, and also commission civil works in the four sections of the Kapiri Nakonde
Road designed under this study. TETAP has therefore been managed to give birth to a longer tern, Multi
Million Dollar Road Sector Management Programme for greater sustainability.
6.0    INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
6.1     Highway Management System
Highway Management System was designed and implemented and is now being used as a tool for planning
and management of road Maintenance and rehabilitation. The problem of sustainability of the System
remains to be addressed.
6.2     Reclassification, Numbering and Mapping
Reclassification, numbering and Mapping of road network in Zambia has been undertaken. Revision of' the
Act is to be undertaken to incorporate the recommended classification and numbering system.
6.3     Equipment Management and Maintenance Study
Equipment Management and Maintenance study was completed and the recommendation to sale Road
Equipment, gradual phasing out of Force Account restructuring of Roads Department to plan and supervise
road works by contract Account with greater involvement of private sector is being undertaken at a slower
pace due to the delayed implementation of public service reform Programme.
6.4     Study on Construction and Consulting Industry
Study on Construction and Consulting Industry was completed and the recommendations are being
implemented. A private sector driven National Council for Construction has been established with public
sector partnership. National Construction Policy has been formulated by the Government. Procurement and
Tender Procedures have been decentralised and streamlined to be more transparent and accountable. Plant
Pools, credit facilities for small scale contractors, training and development of small scale contractors,
instituted. Contracts packaged ceiling limits for National Competitive bidding increased and weightage given
for local contractors consultants and collaborative ventures to implement recommendations for sustainability.
6.5     Feeder Roads Section
Feeder Roads Section established and strengthened in the Ministry of local Government and Housing.
Survey of all feeder roads undertaken and inventory published. 40 % of road fund channelled for
maintenance of feeder roads on sustainable basis. In addition inventory of urban roads undertaken and
engineering design of selected priority roads undertaken in 8 of the 10 Provincial towns. Priority roads in the



- 37-
Lusaka City designed under TETAP have been rehabilitated and road works in the second and third cities of
Zambia designed under the study are to be rehabilitated under ROADSIP before end of the year.
Training and development of staff at MLGH and Councils were not achieved fully and is an ongoing process.
Detailed reports from each of the three implementing Ministries are enclosed as annexures 4, 5, and 6.
(See Project File).
6.6     Financial Performance
6.6.1    Project Accounting - Accounts were audited by Auditor General and External Auditors, Deloitte
and Touche on quarterly basis and audit reports submitted. However a sum of US $ 115 ,820 was
debited to the account through wrong instructions, which the Bank absorbed and credited the
account.
6.7     Bank Performance
The performance ot'the World Bank need to he commended tor guidance and facilitation provided to move
the project torward despite the initial delay of 18 Monthis and the concomitant problems .Special mention
must be made ot' the Task Manager for the project at World Bank without whose guidance and timely
interventions the project could not have succeeded to the extent it did.
6.8     Borrowers Performance
Borrowers pertonnance could be evaluated in relation to lessons from previous Bank /IDA involvement. By
undertaking reforms in Institutional refonms in the Road Sector through the setting up of National Roads
Board, Mobilising additional reveniues to support road maintenance and channelling these revenues to
various road authorities through the setting up of road funid and National Programme of road Maintenance
allocating 40 % to Main Roads. 40 % to rural roads and 20% to urban roads on an annual basis; and by
creating more opportunities for the private sector to participate in the design, construction and maintenance of
roads tlirough phasing out torce account and restructuring of roads department. the Borrower had performed
very well and overcome the shortcomings identified in the earlier IDA projects.
6.9     Sustainabilitv
The sustainability ot the project is assured through the draft Transport Policy, road sector Policy approved by
the Govenunent and communicated to the World Bank. Institutional fiscal and legal reforms already
undertaken as well as proposed initiatives under way.
7Z0    ACHIEVEMfENTS
7.1     All Components commissioned
Althouglh the project was commissioned 18 montlhs late all the components of the project were commissioned
and completed .
7.2     Saving of US $2.1 million made
After having commissioned all the 9 components of the Project and 7 additional consultancies the project was
managed to bring about a saving of tlS $2.1 million despite the delayed start-up of the project.
7.3     Additional Consultancies commissioned
About twenty additional consultancies were commissioned to provide the input into the preparation of a
Bankable Document to access donor funding to launch a medium tenm Road Sector Investment Programme
(ROADSIP) within the total cost of the project and beyond the original conceptualisation of the Project.
7.4     Credit Agreement extended to 30 June, 1998
The Credit was extended by one year up to 30 June, 1998.



- 38 -
7.5     Auditors' Performance
Audit Report on the TETAP Account were submitted by Auditors Deloitte & Touche. on a quarterly basis.
8.0.    OUTCOME
Outcome of the TETAP Project is given below:-
8.1     Transport Sector Policy formulated.
8.2     Road Sector Policy promulgated.
8.3    Institutional refonr undertaken for management oftroad network.
8.4    Institutional responsibilities defined.
8.5     Sustainable financinig arrangement for maintenance of road network established.
8.6     Additional funds mobilised to finance road sector.
8.7     Highway Management System installed for planuning the management of road network.
8.8     Reforms initiated in the Equipment Management System.
8.9    Intervention undertaken to build local contractor and consultilng capacity.
8.10    Force Accounts discouraged and Contract Accounts adopted to encourage private sector participation in road
constniction maintenianice and repair activities.
8.11    Road Nuimberino and Mapping System installed.
8.12    Action Plan to reduce the rate of accidents in the country and improve road safety formulated.
8.13    Environiment Management guidelines fornulated and a unit established  to monitor and carry out
envirolunental impact assessment in the rehabilitation network.
8.14    Commtnity Road Project launched to maintain comununity roads through community participation and cost
sharing.
8.15    Feeder Road Section established in the Ministrv of Local Government and Housing and functions defined.
8.16    Survey of all feeder roads in the country carried out and data base established.
8.17    Ten year programume for rehabilitation of roads launclhed with annual maintenance programme of
maintainable roads as the engine of road sector investment in the country.
8.18    Detailed Enginieering of Kapiri/Nakonde road rehabilitation works to, be implemented in the first year of a
proposed multi-year road relhabilitation proiect completed and procurement of civil works completed.
8.19    First year feeder roads rehabilitation and accessibility improvement programme launched.
8.20    Engineering of' road rehabilitation works to be implemented under accelerdted Urban Road Rehabilitation
Programme in 8 of ten Provincial towns.
8.21    Civil works completed in Lusaka. Procurement of civil works in two other towns Ndola & Kitwe underway.
8.22    Luangwa Bridge strengthened
8.23    Training interventions funded under TETAP to enhance the delivery capability of stakeholder ministries.



- 39 -
8.24    Manual prepared for the various facets of Road Sector Investment Programme.
8.25    Local capacity built through the t'ollowing initiatives:-
8.25.1   Local consulting firms colltracted to work with foreign Finns in most of the studies commissioned.
8.25.2   Counterpart statl allocated to most ot' the Consiiltaicies unidertaken.
8.25.3   Vehicles. equipment and furniiture acqutired unider TETAP Studies remained with government
Departments and Ministries to enhanice delivery capacity and capability.
9.0     LESSONS LEARNT
The following lessons were leamnt from this project:-
1.      Project Management and Coordination skill is essential to make strategic and timely decisions at different
levels, each member of' the coordinating team playing his/her part et'ectively.
2.      The success of a Consultancy study does not depend  on the profile ot a tinn or on the Curriculuim vitae of
Consultants. These can be deceiving and henice the need to manage the process to ensure delivery.
3.      Process Consultancy is a preferred approach to traditional report presentation approach . Reports have no
value unless they are implemented to achieve results. Many reports tend to be shelved without being
implemented due to several reasons thus wasting resources. It is therefore necessary that wherever feasible,
process consultancy approach should be adopted to ensure recommendations are implemented and capacity
built to manage the process.
4.      Success of a project is judged not by number of reports presented and consultancies paid for but by the
outcome of recommendations on the quality of life ot people through improved management of the
component of a sector.
5.      Sustainability ol a project is key to success . Local personnel shouild be developed on the Job doing the Job
to acquire necessary knowledge ,skills attitudes and also providing the tools and motivation required to
perform.
6.      Pairing of local personnel and counterpart staff with consultants is essential to build the capacity of local
tirms and personnel.
7.      Vehicles ,computers ,office equipment ,office accommodation and furniture provided in a study should help
to build the capacity and delivery capability of clients in the long term and not of the consultants only.
8.      Supervision ,guidance and continuos dialogue and feed back from the client is essential for the consultant to
deliver to expectations of stakeholders.
9.      Follow-up of implementation with well thought-out implementation plan is essential.
10.    Intemal control measures should be instituted and reviewed periodicallyto avoid any fraud, with quarterly
internal and extemal Auditing.
11.     Performance of local Banks should be closely monitored to avoid failures on the part of Banks.
12      Effective communication required between the key players to make timely decisions for efficient
management of the Project.



- 40 -
10.0.   CONCLUSION
TETAP Project has achieved not only the set objectives but beyond by providing almost all the input required to launch
a multi-million dollar 10 year Road Sector Investment Programme.
The Project in brief helped to facilitate the fonnulation of policy. institutional, fiuancial. legal and management
information system  frameworkt for the management of road sector on a sound toundation. Thle Project provided the
data base and the manuals required for efficient and effective management of the road Sector. Above all, private sector
participation contributioni and partnership in the road sector management was triggered througlh TETAP. The World
Bank publication entitled Findings' in an article on promoting policy reforms for etfective tranisport services in
CONESA countries reads as follows:
Quote
"Seven of tJze area countries have established Roads Boards, wit/l varying fJnctions and success. But none have
gained a status and success comparahle to the National Roads Board in Zambia whichI has takenm a strong lead in improving
management and creating a sense of ownershipfavourahle to increasing finding and improving petformance.
End of Quote
The achievements of the Zambian Road Sector has been due to the manner in which TETAP Project was managed.



IBRD 29636
\ 22                             24-                            26, 26                                                                                        322                            34
ZAMBIA                                                                                      X--So    \.
TRANSPORT ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL                                                                    ) 7               Rb \TANZANIA
ASSISTANCE PROJECT                                                               w-                                                               T Mbeya
i                             HIGHWAY NETWORK
ENGINEERING CARRIED OUT UNDER
PROJECT CR 2515 - ZA
-                 I                     S 5 ZA  0    SELECTED CITIES          RIVERSKw
MDOLA  URBAN ROADS                   PROVINCE CAPITALS                SWAMPS                    j
'""' BRIDGE                    *)   NATIONAL CAPITAL                 PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                 KAA-M|
TRUNK AND MAIN ROADS       _     NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
RAILROADS                                                                         N  O  R  T H         R  N
Ic       ),<                                                                 MA1 n)   h   L UNSA    L
-12                                     1   {2\ _OLWEZI                                          N                                                                                                                   -rosumEo;es'
A N G O  L A                                                                                                                                                                                                0 - N O REASTERN..-.'->
-- z / W E S T E R N J  >  ' DOLA | > e                                                                         /                                      i
.  CO PPRBT                                                                                       'M
Monyingo  Kosempo                                                                                                                               (rrt~~mp--  M LAW
MyongsjKABWE   '  M       '
C bLukulu   IKaam   -/  f ENTRALgi9     3                         .-'-  MOZAMBIQUE
KoIobo0                                                           H2o             ~          rGABON                                                                                  L-     '.KENYA
RWANDAp 
LUSAIKA              'O  CONGO                                                    TANZANIA
WESTERN~~~~~~~                                   " Nazomoka fiK%u %'nga <-,                      ['
1W'  SenaaNamon5o     '            /ule N-..                                                                                                        ANGOCA   ,   0 Moo,
. \emEo oX M5ZAB 0 U T H E R                                                                                                                     MOZAMBIQUE
SeslmeEn    7  ZimEo                       ____________________________Z_I_M__A___W__71MBABW
'\ABAIDIA >                           LV,NOSTONR       K                    mom .do,b                                                      NAMIBIA   BO i,pTSWANAT , G-
*\   \         f   . \               //Kalomo ~~~~~~~~~Sln.-og-e  j                          100         150 MILES               T  r 
\,                >             \      /7                  ,/                o      su     1 0 50 10 I    200    250 KILOMETERS     :~-Sh$'/                  ~     t,sAL9
_._-vNAMIBIA                          L        EZ                                                    . -,ni-----d-                                SOUTH AFRICA
22_.--                        .7    BOTSWANA   \             26                             28                             30
DECEMBER 199



