Doc_mmof
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONUy
i.t yNo. P-5989-ZA
ANDF
OF U
PRESIDENT OF THE
NTEATIONAL DEVELOPT ASSOCITMON
TO THE
EXCUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN T  AT  QVALET  TO SDR 6.2 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMA
FM A
TRANSPORT ENGIEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
MAT 20, 1993
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.:P- 5989-ZA    Type: (PR)
Title: TRANSPORT ENGINEERING AND TECH
Author: JENSEN, I.
Ext.:35550 Room:J11125 Dept.:AF6IN
TITLE CHANGE AT GREEN COVER STAGE
Tis document has a ricted distr-io and may be used by r ony In the pefoance of
thdr offil duties. Its coets may not othwnse be disclosed whout World Bank athoriza



C5RQNCY BlVALEN
(as of December 31, 1992)
Currency Unit                 =              Zambian Kwacba (K)
K 1.0                         5              US$0.007
US$1.00                                      X K140
Average Annual Exchange Rates
Year                                         K per US pollar
1990                                         28.9
1991                                         61.7
1992                                         171.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton (tonne)          =              1000 g or 2,20S pounds
1 meter (m)                   2              3.2808 feet
I kdlometer (1cm)             =             0.6214 miles
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB           =      African Development Bank
BP             =      British Petroleum Ltd.
CAP 766               Roads and Road Traffic Act
DBMS                  Database management system
DC             =      District Council (urban and rual)
EEC                   European Economic Commnity
FRS            =      Feeder Roads Section
GIS-T                 Geographic Ifrmation Sydem
--DM           =      Highway Design and Maintenance Model
HMS                   Highway Management S. stem
mRl                   Iternational Roughness Index
M-road         =      Main road
MCT            =      Ministry of Communications and Transport
MLG                   Ministry of Local Govement and Housing
MOF                   Minislty of Finmce
MOP                   Memorandum of the President
MWS                   Ministry of Wors and Supply
NCDP           -      National Commisson for Development Planning
PTA            =      Preferential Trade Area
RD             =      Roads Depatment
RDC            =      Rural District Council
RMI            =      Road Maintenance Initiative
RMOT           =      Road Maintenance, Orgaiation and Traning Study
RRP            =      Roads Rehabilitation Project
SOE                   Staement of Expenditure
T-toad                Trunk road
GOVERNMEN  OF REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMFCL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
TRANSPORT ENGNEERING AND TECH NICAL AS SJSTA NC PROJECT
CREr AND E a13 h SUMMARY
Republic of Zambia
Bengficiaries:                     Ministries of Communications and Transport,
Local Government and Housing, and
Works and Supply
[CredktAmQu:                       SDR 6.2 million (US$8.5 million equivalent)
TmS Sandard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
miancin  Plan:                                      US$ Milions
IDA                  8.5
Government           0.5
Total:              2l
E£n.mi Rate of Return:             Not applicable
Staff AO-rabida Report:            None
M:                                 IBRD No. 24598
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the peformance
or their otAciad duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discsed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA FOR
A 32NEPOR  ENGNEERING AND IEDCHN=A  ASSISTAN{CE }RJC
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a
proposed development credit to the Republic of Zambia for SDR 6.2 mllion, the equivalent
of US$8.5 million, on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years, including 10 years of
grace, to help finance an engineering and technical assistance project foi road and transport
inrastuctre.
2.    CoLuny/Sector Backgnd. Although Zambia's economy grew steadily in the years
following independence in 1964, a prolonged period of economic decline, as evidenced by a
more than 30 percent drop in GDP per capita, followed from the mid-1970s to the present.
While initially caused by a sharp drop in copper prices and the consequent loss of export
earnings, the more fundamental cause was the adoption of restrictive economic policies that
limited competition, suppressed the role of market mechanisms in guiding resource allocation,
and extended public sector dominance throughout the economy.
3.    After several unsuccefl efforts at economic reform in the 1970s and 1980s, in 1991
Zambia's newly elected government initiated a reform program designed to encourage
movement to a fuil market economy, and in so doing, significandy reduce the role of
government in productive and commercial economic acvities. This program of adjustment
and economic reform relies in part on provision of increased incentives for agricultural
production and promotion of the privae sector, both by supporting new entry and pdvatizing
a portion of the large public sector. However, the creation of the necessary enabling
environment for enhanced growth and productivity continues to be hampered by the existence
of infrastructure which is poorly maintained and seriously run-down. In the transport sector,
as In the economy at large, the focus of past years has been on the building of new
irastructure rather than on rehabilitation and maintenance, with predictable results. A recet
review of the financW health of the transport sector estmates that in FY 1991 the sector
(roads, railways and the airline) imposed a financial burden of about K 4.9 billion (nearly
US$100 million) on the Government in the form of grants, overdrafts and short-term loans at
government-owned banks with government guarantees. This was equivaent to about 12
percent of the Government's total current revenues, excluding grants.
4.    Following many years of neglect, road expenditu  remain well below the level
needed to main  the network in a stable condition over the long-term. Current spending on
roads under the jurisdiction of the Roads Department (RD) covers only 20 to 40 pent of
the requirement for the 7,000 km of trunk and main roads, and only 10 to 20 percent for the
14,000 km of district roads. The nearly 16,000 km of roads under the juisdiction of the
Distrct Councils (DCs) are in even worse condion and condnue to deteriorate at an even
faster pace than the RD-maintained roads. The problem is serious, as Zambia's roads are
Important national assets with an estimated replacement cost, less the backlog of deferret
maintenance, of nealy US$2 billion. When the erosion of capital atibutable to the shortfll
in road naintenance is added to the transport burden noted above (para 3), the totl financial



-2-
burden imposed by the transport sector in FY 1991 rises from K 4.9 billion to about K 6.5
billion (about US$130 million), or 17 percent of the Government's total revenues.
S.    However, inadequat funding Is not the only problem. Existig regulations governmg
roads, which largely date back to 1969, no longer reflect current practices and policies.
Although It Is generally held that the Ministry of Communication and Transport (MCr) is
reape ible for planning the main road network, the Minstry of Works and Supply (MWS)
for constructing and mintaining the main roads, and the Ministry of Local Government and
Housing (MLG) for planning of new works and overseeing the md_e of roads that fail
under the DCs, each ministry's respective responsibilities hzve become increasingly unclear
and framented. None of the ministries has the requisite resources, staffing and tools to
undertake its assigned responsibilities in an adequate manner.
6.    The need exists to restucture the tansport sector to increase efficiency and reduce the
drain on government revenues, a key element of which will be the creation of a sustainable
system for financing and maintaing the road network. This will entai regulatory and
institutional reform, greater and more predictable resource mobilization, and broader
opportunities for the private sector to participate in the design, construction and mainteance
of roads. Also Important wil be improved planning given Zambia's severe resource
constraints, more effective use of existing assets, and better coordination among donor-
ficed projects and programs.
7.    The Government has shown broad commitment to change since embarking on its new
adjustment program. With respect to the roads sector, the Governmen asked to participate in
and was selected as one of the countries to be included in the Road Maitnce Initiative
(RM), a donor-financed program, administered by the Bank, designed to raise the awaress
of the importance of road maintenance and assist governments In identifying the specific
reforms required and the options available for achieving such reforms. An RMI seminar was
held in February 1993 and has helped to build a consensus within the Government on the
nature and direction of change required. The project Is complementary to the RMI and will
support and assist In implementing the reforms identified.
S.    Eroect gb3e=. The project has three main objectives. The first Is to design and
implement transport sector policy reforms, in particular through (a) a program of reglatory
and institonal reform to improve the management of the national road network and to put
the finamcing of roads on a sustable long-term basis, and (b) enhanced opportuni  for
private sector participation In the rehabilitation and mntean  of roads. The second
objective is to strengten the Government's capacity to plan and coordinate public
expenditures for roads, and to monitor sector performance. The third is to carry out the
preparatory engineering work for the flrst year program of a proposed multi-year Roads
Rehabilitation Project (RRP).
9.    Prolect Deciton. The project will finance technical assistance and studies which,
taken together, wi (a) provide the elements required for creaing a sustnable, efficient
system for managing roads; and (b) prepare the first year of the proposed RRP. The ptoject
contains the following components:
I.    PI Simu: A natonal road transport policy study, which will cy  out
an adminitrative reclassification of the road network (much of which is currnty
ungazeted), work out the detailed implications of establishing an autonomous



-3-
Highway Authority to take over responsibility for managing tie entire road nXwork in
Zambia, propose arrangements for road financing, Including the possible introduction
of an explicit road tariff, followed by preparation of a Cabinet Paper summarizing the
above arrangements, and the subsequent preparation of a draft Highway Authority Bill
for consideration by Parliament (US$0.8 million or 9% of total project costs).
ii.     oect Preparation: Detailed engineering of road rehabilitation works to be
carried out under the proposed RRP first year program, based on the five-year
priority program identified in the recendy completed Road Maintenance, Organzation
and Training Study (RMOT, and the Luagwa Bridge feasibility and egmeering
study (US$2.4 million or 27% of totl project costs).
iii. Institutional Development: Design and implementation of a highway
management system, including reclassification of roads as mentioned above; an
equipment management and maintenance study to explore how RD's equipment could
be managed and maintained in an efficient manner; a study of the local consulting and
construction industry to establish the range and competence of domestic construction
and consulting firms, identify any constraints hampering their development, and
prepare an action plan for removing constraints to industry development;
establishment of a feeder roads section (FRS) within MLG, which will cover roads
managed by the Rural District Councils (RDCs), including channelling fimds from the
development budget and improving generation of local revenues for matuenan  of
RDC roads; and assistance to the implementing agencies in maintaining the project
accounts and to Ministry of Finance (MOF) for auditing the accounts (US$5.8 million
or 64%of total proetect costs).
10.   A breakdown of costs and the fin. -icing plan is shown in ScbeduleA. In view of the
serious domestic resource consutaints, the Government contribution to the project will be
limied to about 5% of the total costs. The Govermnent will finance US$0.5 million, with
IDA providing finance for the remainder, US$8.5 million. The project components are all
consulting servicesechnical assistance; procurement wlfl be sibject to the World Bank
Guidelines for Use of Consultants (August 1981) as shown in Schedulg BI the schedule of
disbursements is also shown in Schedule B. In order to facilitate disbursments and ensure
timely provision of funds, the Government will establish a special account in the amount of
US$1.0 million. Disbursements are expected to take place over a period of about three and
three-quarter years. A timetable of key project processing events and the status of Ba. k
Group operations In Zambia are given in Schedules C and D respectively. Further details on
the project components are provided in the technical annex which includes the project
implementation schedule and the supervision plan. A map, IBRD No. 24598, is also
attached.
11. Project Inglementation. 'Me project wUI be implemented by MCI, MLG and MWS,
with the Director of Planning, MCT, designated as project coordinator. Each of the
implementing agencies will be responsible for the project components directly associated with
its current responsibilities: MCT for the policy support, MMG for the FRS, and MWS for all
the other road components. The project coordinator will be responsible for overall project
monitoring. Arrangements for project accounting and auditing will be administered by MOF.
Many of the studies to be carried out under different agencies overlap or cover areas of
common interest, so there is a strong need for close coordination and collaboration with input
required from many of the stakeholders involved in the transport sector. To that end, the



-4-
steeing committee established for the RI seminar will coutlnue to meet to help guide
project implementation and coordination. Ihis committee is chaired by the Minister of
Communications and Transport and includes representatives of each of th ree implementng
agencies, MOF and National Commission for Development Plannbg (NCDP), as well as
private sector participants including contractors, consultants and commercial road users.
Specific arrangements for implementation were discussed during appraisal and have been
confirmed during negotiations. These arrangements will also be reviewed in a project launch
seminar preceding project effectiveness. Project implementation, scheduled over about three
years, will rely on local, or locally based, consultants to the extent possible.
12. Project Sustainabilit. The focus of the policy support and institutional development
components is to ensre that roads are managed effectively and finced adequately on a
sustainable long-erm basis. Agreements have been reached with the Government under this
project that the various study recommendatiens will be iWplemented as ageed with IDA, and
action on the policy-oriented reforms will be pursued not only under this project but also
under possible future investment projects in the transport sector. It is evident that the
Government, by taking the initiative to enter into a thorough review of the sector policy
issues, has shown a degree of commitment that augurs well for futre implementaton of the
policy recommendations.
13.   LAo  frm EEO=  ;DIU=          n& olYna t. Experience frcm three highway
projects in Zambia indicates that the key problems include (a) a lack of commiment to road
maintenance; (b) weak Insttions and a pervasive shu,rtage of qualified staf; (c) inadequae
planning and programming; and (d) insufficient and unpredictable budget allocations for road
maintece. To address these shortcomings, the activities to be supported under the project
wil: (i) clarify and reform the institutional responsibilities and arrangements for manafng
roads; (i) mobilize additional revenues to support road mainenance and channel these
revenues to the various road authorities; and (iii) create more opportnities for the private
sector to participate in the design, construction and maintenance of roads.
14. Rationale for IDA Involvement. The Bank Group's overall strategy is to help the
Government to design and implement, and mobilize resourcs for, its adjustment program
(pa 2), thereby placing the economy on a sustainable gVowtlh pat. In the early years of the
current adjustment program, IDA's focus has been on providing balance of paymets support,
supplemented by investment operations in transport and social services; the medium term
strategy also focusses on creating an environment conducive to economic diversification and
expansion. The project supports this country assistance strategy, as it will () help to improve
the climate for private sector development through regulatory reform, provision of
infrastructure, and elimination of barriers to private sector participation in the provision of
public services; (ii) facilitate the ongoing program of public sector refbom by creating a roads
organization that will rely primarily on contacting out of rouine and periodic maitence
and rehabilitation works, instead of on force account; and (il) enhance the revenue base
through improved cost recovery from road users, and more adequate accountability for the
use of funds. In addition, while a number of muitilateral and bilatera donors are actively
supporting road rehabilitation and maintenance in Zambia, such acthiites are poorly
coordinated and, as they do not address the underlying institutional weaknesses, are unlikely
to result in susned improvement. IDA participation will help the Government to address
these underlying weaknesses in ways consistm   with the Governments overall program of
reform and help the Gover.iment to coordinate and channel donor support to those activities
that will contribute to a well-managed and adequately maintained road network.



-s-
15.   Aged ActQu. As agreed during appraisal, the project coordineor was present at
negotiations. Agreemeuu on specific implementation arrangements were formalized duing
negotiations, including (a) the continuous assignment of the Director of Plnng, MCI, as
project coordinator; (b) the continued involvemert of the steering committee in project
implementation and coordination, under operating procedures (terms of reference) satisfactory
to IDA; and (c) the project Implementation cheaule (Section C). Agreement was also
reached on ( ) implemeion of the recomraendations of the varous project studies as agreed
with IDA; (ii) contuation of the Bank review of the sector's annual investment program, and
(Ii) scheduling of a mid-term review, to take place in or about December 1994, which will
inctude, but not be limited to, progress in meting the project's policy, technical, and
developmental objectives; amounts and adequacy of counterpart funding; mechanisms to
Improve project implementation; and acdion programs, including timetables, to implement
study recommendations and to prepare the proposed RRP. It was also agreed that the
Government will contract a specialized private auditing firm to assist the implementing
ministries in preparing the project accounts and to carry out the annual audits of the accounts.
16.   Environmental Alp. No civil works will be carried out under the project.
Environment assessment of proposed future road rehabilitation and mance activities
will be carried out as part of the engineering studies. The terms of reference for the
consultants require them to ensure that bid documents contain clear instructions regarding
location and operation of construction camps, treatment of borrow pits, and roufting of traffic
to avoid creation of adverse environmental impacts by the road works. The consultants will
also be required to give attention to mnmization of road safety hazards, parcuarly in built-
up areas.
17.  EPrm    !jective Cagides. The project will support the Government's program to
Improve public sector management, create an enabling environment for private sector
development, and contribute to poverty alleviation through employment creation by promoting
labor-based construction techniques for road works.
18.   Prject Beneflts. Ihe project will help to implement the Government's adjustment
efforts directly by improving public sector efficiency and oppormities for private sector
participation at the sectoral level. Increased revenue mobilizadon, particularly in the form of
higher usr fees, combined with more efficient and productive use of scarce government
revenues, will also free up fuids for other purposes and benefit all segments of the
population. Finally, rehabilitation and maintenance of severely deteriorated roads will lead to
savings in transport costs for all road users and improved accessibility. Improvements in the
planning and management of rural roads will support parallel programs to osr agricultural
development by reducing transport costs and ihproving farmers' access to markets.
19.   BLak. The main risk rests in the Goverment's political ability to implement the
requisite reforms, in particular the restructurig of RD on a more commercial basis and
collection of additional revenues from road users. This risk is miniized by ihe
Govenmnent's commitment to the project, and steps taken to date to reach agrem     among
the affected ministries. The capacity of the various implementg agencies might be slower
building up than anticipated, but the project's emphasis on using and developing private sector
firnn, preferably local or locally based, for engineerng studies and for technical assistance,
will alleviate any shortcomings In staffing or otherwise of the public sector agencies.



20.   Re.oendation  I am satsfied that the credit will comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
A1aUbmen
Washington, D.C.
May 20, 1993



-7-
RIlPUIJBLC OF ZM}lIA
nAM°ECIETW AM nRC& SSISTACE PRQM
&Uimaw  8 and F cing Plan
Locl    Foreign     Total
-(US$ million)
PolicySPDf
Nationd Road Tansport Policy Study               0.2       0.5       0.7
et PonDdn
First Yea Road Rehabilitation Progam             0.2       1.0        1.2
Lugwa Bridge                                    0.2        0.6       0.8
Instiytiona1d-vlpm
Highway Managem_t System                        0.5        1.3       1.8
Equipmet Managemet nd Maiteace Study            0.1        0.3       0.4
Construction and Consulting Industry Study      0.1        0.2       0.3
Feeder Roads Section                             0.9       1A        2.3
Project Acounting and Auditing                   0.0       0.1        0.1
Physic                                           0.2       0.5       0.7
Price                                            0.2       0.5       0.7
Totid PrRjet ot                                              6.4       9.O
Al Not of taxes and duties
B.   Fiacin8 plan
Loal    Foreign     Total
-(USS mllion)-
IDA                                                2.1       6.4        8.5
overnment                                          0.5       0.0       0.5
2§        26 4Q



-8-
Schodule B
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC QF ZAMBIA
TRANSPORT EMN=INE Q AND 1VEHNCAL ASSISTANCE ,OlC
Ppuem nen Mdethod and Disements
.                                                 . ~~~~A
Procarfement Method.ll
Project Elements                             ICB    LCii  Other   Total
Costs a/
--S $  m ll ion-~
Policy Support                                             0.8      0.8
[*u,8)   (0.8)
Project Preparaton I/                                      2.4      2.4
*(2.2)   (2.2)
Anstitutional Development 4/                               S.8      5.8
f5.5)   (S.S)
TO                                                     9.0      9.0
(8.SJ    (8.5)
1/    IDA contnbution shown in parenthesis.
2/    Figures have been rounded.
1    lIncludes two major consultancies for detailed engineering of (i) First Year Road
Rehabittton Program, and (ii) LuIga Bridge.
41    Includes two studies, (i) Equipment Ma8gemen and Maintnnce, and (ii)
Constuction and Consulting Industry, and three consuftaicies for (i) Highway
Mangagmemen System, (ii Feeder Roads Section, and (iii) Project Accotig and
Auditing.



-9-
Page 2 of 2
EUBIuC  ZAMBIA
TRANSPOR  ENGINEERNG ANQD =RKQNIAI ASSISTANCE ,OE'
Prgurment Methodan Dab jswXem
B}. DisburseMMn
Amount of Cedi            Percn of
(USS million)
Consulting Services:
(i) National road transport policy
study                       0.8                        100%
(iB) Feeder roads section      2.4                        100%
(iii) Project accounting
and auditing       0.1                       100%
(iv) All other services        4.2                        90%
Unallocated                      1.0
Total CredittSnount              8 S/a
Estmated ID:>A Disbursement                   IDA Fiscal year
94    25    2§    97
(US$ mlulion)-
Annual                                 2.11a  3.0   2.5   0.9
Accumulative                           2.1   5.1   7.6   8.5
li Including US$1.0 million initial deposit into the Special Account



-10-
Schedule C
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
TRANSPORT ENGINJEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROIECT
Timetable of Key Credit Processing Events
Time taken to prepare:            8 months
Prepared by:                      Government of Zambia with IDA assistance *
First IDA mission:                February 1992
Appraisal mission departure:      September 1992
Date of negotiations:             April 1993
Planned date of effectiveness:    October 1993
List of rele%.t PCRs:             Zambia: Highway Reconstruction Project
(Cr. 469-ZA)
Second Highway Project
(Cr. 563-ZA)
fhird Highway Project
(Ln. 1566-ZA/Cr. 798-ZA)
* This Memorandum and Recommendation of the President (MOP) was prepared on the basis
of an appraisal mission that visited Zambia in September/October, 1992. The appraisal
mission comprised Ms. Imogene Jensen (Mission Leader/Senior Eoonomist), and Messrs. Ian
Heggie (Principal Infrastructure Economist), Preben Jensen (Principal Highway Engineer) and
John Riverson (Rural Roads Specialist). The report was reviewed by Ms. Phyllis Pomerantz
(Division Chief, AF6IN), and by two peer reviewers, Messrs. Amadou Cisse (AFTI  and
Richard Scurfield (INUTD). The Director of the Department is Mr. Stephen Den1ing.



-1 1-D
Pagp 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OP ZIAM11
1^ANSPRTENalNEERIN -NTecHNlCALAISNC O1srPRM1
vtm Sdtam 2tLoftam8 and IDA Creds
(as of Marcb 30, 1993)
Amount in US$ milion
(I=s canelatMiona)
Loan or   Fscal                                                                 Undis-       Closing
Credit No.   Year    Borrower   Pupos                        Bank       IDA       bursed        Date
Craft
22 Credits(s) losed                                                        479.16
14370   1984      Zambia    Foesty m                                 22.40       6.96      09//93(R)
15750   1985      Zambia    Railways IV                              12.        13.04      063O/93(R)
16790   1986      Zambia    TAS n                                     8.00       6.08      1231/93(fR)
17430   1987      Zambia    Coffie U                                 20.40      21.81        06130/95
17460   1987      Zambia    Agr. Res. & ExtL                         13.00      12.66      12131/96(R)
22690   1991       Zambia    Minin TAS                               21.00      19.86         0630/97
22730   1991       Zambia    Socia Recovery                          20.00      13.92         07/31/9)
24050(S)   1992      Zanbia    Pratizetionllnd. R.                     200.00     92.15         06C3WC9
24060   1992       Zmbia      PIRC TA                                10.00       9.52         1231/97
24051(S)   1993      Zambia    Prlvatbiztion/nd. R.                     20.88     20.92         1213193
24220 *   1993      Zambia      fktg. & Process.                       33.00     33.45         06/3099
24290 *   1993      Zambia    Education Rehab. 1                       32.00     30.81         06/30/98
Total number of Creds = 12                                                 412.88    281.18
28 Loans(s) closed
-82.13
All closed for Zambia
Total number of Loans =0
Totd***                                                   58213    892M03
of whib repaid                                            32M9       -L
Total held by Bank and IDA                                191.24    890.38
Amount sold           28.58
of whch rpaid         28.58
Total undisbursed                                                               281.1
Notes:
*   Not yet effictve
s Not yet signed
se. Totd Approved, Repaymnt*s, and Outsanding bahlne repnmt both acdv and hiive Loans and Credis.
(R) indicates formally revied Closing Daft.
(S) indicats SALJSECAL Loans and Crdits.
The Net Approved and Bank Repaymets are hidoricl value, all odts are mauret valku
The Slgn*g, Effective, and Closing dtes are based upon th Loan Departmeat of Gcil datA and are not taken
fim tho Task Budget file.



-12-                             Xhe~~~~~~~~~Sbdule D
Psge 2 of 4
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
TRANSPORT ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
List of Closed SALs and SECML. in Zsmbia
(as of Marh 30, 1993)
Amount in USS 3$illion
(less canceations)
LAn or       Fiscal                                                      U sdis-     Closing
Credit No.     Year   Borrower   Purpose               Bank      IDA       bwsed        Date
C15450       198S     Zambia    Agri Rehab                      24.1S        .00      06130/88
CAOOSO       1986     Zambia    Agri Rehab                       9.85        .00      06/30188
CA0040       1986     Zambia   Ind Reorientation                42.00        .00      12/31188
C16300       1986     Zambia   bid Reorientation                19.46        .00      12/31/88
C17200       1986     Zambia    Recovery Credit                 SO.00        .00   06/30191(R)
C22140       1991     Zambia    Recovery Credit                210.00        .00      06/30/92
C22141       1991     Zambia    Recovery Credit                 27.20        .00      06130/92
C22142       1992     Zambia    Recovery Credit                 10.00        .00      06/01/93
123910       1984     Zambia   Exp Rehab & Div         71.92                 .00      09/30/88
Total Zambia                              71.92   392.66        .00
LImolmentti   Issue
Normal Bank opations resumed in zombia at the begiag of 1992, following a hiatus of
several yers during wbich disbursmeat of loan and credits was suspended due to accumultd arears
to the Bank. Since then, implementtion of ongoing operations has stedily gathered momentun
Howver iple aon  paty remains weak. In February 1993, a country implementtion review
was organized to identify problems and seek solutions. Te review prepaed action plans for
addressng pruremet, disbusement, and management problems aro  all sectors. lhese plans are
being implemented under close monitonng. A followup country implemenaion review is planned to
assess progress on these action plans and to work out further measur  for accolering implemenation.
Portfolio managemet strate  emphasize supervison of ogoing oprations. Icead
resources have been allocated for this function to achieve results on the ground. In addition, _ e
has been provided under the Second Technical Assistance Project, the Mining Technical Assistan
Project, and the Privaeiation and Industra Reform Credit for sBtngthnig and building up locad
implementation capacity. Where projects have proved complex (for instance, Railways IV, Agriculturl
Research and Extension, and Coffee II), those projects have been restucued to facilitate
implementation. In the case of two projects (Fisheries and Development Bank of Zambia), the credits
were canceled.
Diburemets on some of the projects in the portfolio have been dow patly becase of
suspeon and partdy because of implementation constaints. The Second Teehnical Assistanc Credit



-13-                                        Schgdulo D
Page 3 of 4
of S8.0 million, wlich bem    effectve in August 1986, has '. undisbursed balance of $6.0 million.
Slow disbursement has been due to suspension between May 19C7 and January 1992. The project was
rettured in 1991 to make it consistent with cumnt Government pnonities. Forestry I Credit of
$22.4 million, wbich became effective September 1984, has an undisbursed balanc of $6.96 million.
Beause of persistent management problems, the credit account wiU be closed in September this year
and the undisbursed balance canceled. Coffee It Credit of $20.4 millin became effective in March
1992 after reapprisad and resucturing. No disbursement has as yet taken place. Agriciutural
Research and Extension Credit of $13.0 million also became effective in June 1992 after
restructuring. The Privatization and Industrial Reform Credit (PIRC) of $200.0 million became
effective in Septcmber 1992. About half the credit has been disbursed. ne third tranche is due for
release in September 1993. Progress on the Mining Technical Assitan  Credit of $21.0 million and
the PIRC Technical Assistanc Credit of $10.0 million is steady. Railways IV Credit of $20.0
million has a undisburwsed balance of $13.4 million after cancellation of $7.8 million The uncanoelled
balace is for restructuing the project and reforming sectorl policies. Finally, the Soeial Recoveq
Credit of $20.0 million, which became effective in October 1991, is making steady progress, with an
undisbursed balance of only $13.92 million. Two credits approved last year - Agricultre Marketing
and Pocing ifrastruture and Education Rehabilitation- have yet to become effective.
Zambia has made a commendable effort in bringing overdue audits of project accounts, special
accounts and staemes of expenditure up to date. Its performance in this regard is the best in the
DqantmenL Since clearing amars to the Bank at the end of January 1992, Zambia has remained
currn in its debt-ervice payments to the Bank. There are no overdue paymenht of more than 30
days. Given the suspensions of May 1987 to Marc 1991 and September 1991 to January 1992,
Zambia's debt-service payment is monitored closely.



-14-                                              D
Page 4 of 4
REPIIBLIC OF ZAMBl
nTRASPORT ENEaIMM9IN  AMD  M M&s I ,ASSIST*ANCE PROlECT
Te Status of IPC Investments in Znbia
(as of March 31, 1993)
Investment   Fisca                                                      Loau   Equity   Total
Number    Year   Obligor                         Business                  -(US$ million)-
216       1972   Zambia Bata Shoo               Shoes                0.85   0.23       1.08
250       1973                                                       1.20   0.00       1.20
307       1975   Centuy Productions Ltd.        Plastic Wrap         0.77   0.21      0.99
394       1978                                                       0.10   0.00      0.10
324       1976   Devt Bank of Zambia            Dev't Finance        0.00   0.S4      0.54
632       1982   Ethanol Co. of Zambia          Chem/Pebochem        3.68   0.60      4.29
1001      1988   Gwembe Valey Dov't.            Food/Food Proc       3.70   0.80       4.50
527       1980   Kafiue Textiles                Textiles             0.29   0.00      0.29
721       1981                                                       7.31   0.00      7.31
1985                                                       3.14   0.00      3.14
1132      1989   Masatock (Zambia)              Food/Food Proc       8.23   0.00       8.23
743       1985   Mpongwe Dev't Co.             Food/Food Poc         1.83   0.59      2.41
709       1984   Zambia Hotel Prp.              Tourism             21.01   0.00      21.01
1991                                                       1.40   0.00      1.40
483       1980   ZCCM                           Mining              28.00   0.00      28.00
600       1982                                                      25.14   0.00      25.14
Total Gts CommitmentB                             106.66   2.97    109.64
Less: Cancdlations, terinations,
exchange 4ustments, re-
payments, writeoffs, and
syndicae sdes                                73.33    2.75    76.08
Total commitments held by IFC                      33.33    0.23    33.56
Totd undisburued                                    6.50    0.00     6.50
Total Disbused                                     26.83    0.23    27.06



-15-
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TO THE MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMEINDATION OF THE PRESIDENT FOR
A TRANPORT GINEERING AND TECHN=&^  ASSISTANC.ERJC
Section A: Detailed mlPrect lm
1.    Zambia is a landlocked country with a surface area of about 750,000 km2 and a
population of just over 8 million, about half of whom live in wban weas. With a per capita
income of about US$310 per annum, Zambia is classified by the UN as among the least
developed countries. This has not always been the case. Zambia's rich mineral resowces
were well developed at its inJependence in 1964, and until the mid-1970s, relatively high and
steady export earnings permitted the Government to subsidize other sectors, ranging from
infrastructure and services to Imported agricultural products and other goods. However, a
major downturn in copper prices from 1974 onwards brought Zambia into protracted
economic decline. From 1974 to 1988, copper production declined by 41 percent, export
earnings of metal products declined by 23 percent, and the mining sector's output in trms of
value added declined by 33 percent. This downturn in the economy has taken a heavy toll on
infrstucture and services.
2.    A well-fimctioning system of transport is essential to the Govermnent's goals of
enhanced productivity and efficiency, economic diversification, and broader participation of
the private sector in all segments of the economy. Ihe need extends not only to faclitaion of
intational trade, but also to inter  distribution of agricultural products and manfatred
goods. For example, despite considerable poten   for agriculture, output of the agruural
sector has failed to expand sufficiently over the past decade to change in any significant way
the sector's relative share of export eangs. Food imports (mainly wheat, dairy products
and vegetable oils) account for more than 10 percent of the country's imports, while
agricultural exports (mainy tobacco and cotton) account for less than 2 percent of total export
earnings. Rural roads are in particularly poor condition, and have been identified as a major
source of inefficiency in the agricultural sector.
3.    Zambia's present government has, in its policy statements and actions, shown
commitment to change from the restrictive economic policies of the past, which lmited
competition, suppressed the role of market mechanisms in guiding resource allocation, and
extended public sector dominance throughout the economy. In the roads subsector, a wide
range of reforms is required, as the country does not have the capacity, either technical or
financial, to rehabilitate and maintain a well-functioning road network. To begin to identify
the reforms required, the Government requested to participate in the RMI. The RMI is a
donor-financed program, admistered by the Bank, designed to raise awareness of the
Importance of road maintenance and explore the options for achieving the necesary
improvements. The project is complementary to this iniative, as it wil support
implementation of the specific reforms identifled as priorities in the course of the RMI
seminar.



-16-
4.    Another input for improving the maintenance and management of roads includes the
recently completed RMOT study, which was financed by the African Development Bank
(AfDB) and evaluated about 13,500 km of road under the jurisdiction of RD) and about 2,000
km of rural district roads in nine RDCs (one in each of the nine provinces). The study
prepared an overall ten-year maintenance and rehabilitation program for RD and RDC roads,
and a detailed five-year priority program, based on the results of an inventory and condition
survey, and also recommended an appropriate management structure for RD and RDC roads.
The project will build on this work by (i) extending the road inventory to all roads, and (i)
financing detailed engineering of the high priority maintenance and rebabilitation works
identified in the five-year program.
Abe Roads Subsector
5.    Zambia has 3,119 km of international trunk roads ('-roads), 4,048 km of main roads
(M-roads), 23,882 km of district roads and 5,714 km of rural roads. Of this, about 3,000 km
of T-roads, 2,000 km of M-roads and 1,500 km of district roads are paved. About 20,780
km of roads fall under the jurisdiction of RD and its provicial engineers, while the remaining
15,983 km are under the jurisdiction of 9 urban and 48 RDCs. DC areas are also thought to
contain 25,000 to 30,000 kn of ungazetted roads.
6.    National road policy is laid down in the Roads and Road Traffic Act (CAP 766)
passed in 1969 and amended in 1974. The Act lays down regulations governing constuction
and maintenance of roads, the responsibility for different types of road and how road
maintenance is to be fianced. The Act defines five types of road: (C) T-roads and M-roads
outside local authority areas; (ii) M-roads inside local authority areas; (iii) district roads; (iv)
rural roads; and (v) branch and estate roads. The first type is managed by RD and financed
from the central government budget. The second type is managed by the concerned local
authority and is also supposed to be financed from the central government budget (i.e., the
local authority would manage these roads on an agency basis). In the third case, the
MinisterlI appoints a highw^y authority to manage the roads, while central goverment is
agin supposed to finance them (sometimes the highway authority is RRD; otherwise it is the
concerned district council). The fourth type is managed by the RDCs and is supposed to be
financed through a combination of RDC revenues and central government grants. In the fifth
case, the Minister again designates the highway authority and the roads are supposed to be
financed through a combination of RDC revenues (for branch roads) and taxes imposed, at the
discretion of the Minister, on adjoining property owners.
7.    CAP 766 was passed when all responsibilities for roads fell under a single ministry
for works, transport and communications. This has changed and MCT is now responsible for
setting overall transport policy (and the Minister of Communications and Transport is held
accountable by Parliament for the state of the road network), while MWS is the designated
highway authority for all T, M, and some D roads and is responsible for the construction,
rehabilitation and maintenance of these roads, and the DCs (under MLG) are responsible for
the remainder of the road network. However, although CAP 766 clearly sets out who is
responsible for what, it has not been customary for the Government to provide any specific
fimance to support maintenance of urban and rural district council roads, nor has the
Government exercised its powers to require adjoining property owners to contribute to the
I/At that time, the Minister was responsible for Works, Transport and Communications.



-17-
upkeep of branch and estate roads. The Goverment also has not ensured that an appropriate
highway authority has been designated for each and every section of road.
8.    Recent allocations for maintenance have been well below the levels needed to maintain
the road network in a stable long-term condition. Spending on RD-managed roads currently
covers about 20 to 40 percent of requirements for T and M-roads, and only 10 to 20 percent
for district roads. As a result, over 80 percent of the paved road network is now in fair or
poor condition. The condition of DC roads is no better. Expenditures cover about 20 to 50
percent of requirements, with the result that rural roads often become impassable during the
rainy season. These low levels of spending mean that routine maintance has virtually
ceased, road rehabilitation has become a substitute for regular road maintece, and low
maintenance expendiures have destroyed the capacity of RD and the various DCs to
undertake road maintenance.
fIssues
9.    There are five main issues that have led to the current state of the road network
First, under CAP 766, the status of some roads, such as urban or local authority roads,
remains unclear. Presently, few grants are made to support mantenance of non-RD roads
and most urban DCs do not know they are meant to maintain M-roads on an agency basis and
are entitled to receive grants from the MinisterZ/ to support maintenace of these roads.
The status of branch and este roads is even less clear, particularly with regard to financing.
More roads need to be gazetted, much of the network needs to be reclassified, and all roads
need to be clearly assigned to an appropriate highway authority.
10.   Second, all road agencies are staffed to carry out work by force account and are
seriously short of qualified technical staff. As government policy now promotes use of local
consultants and contractors, road agencies need to move away from being force account
orgazations, towards becoming smaller agencies with qualified staff who can recruit and
manage consultants and contractors to do some, if not most, of the work. To support this
shif the financial accounting and other management information systems used by these road
agencies need to be restructured and improved.
11.   Third, there is an urgent need to strengthen domestic revenue mobilization. Road
users pay negligible sums for use of the road network. License fees have not kept up with
inflation and transport fuels only bear a standard excise tax (i.e., there is no explicit road user
charge). At the district level, the situation is even worse. DCs have very narrow sax bases
and, even if they could increase their local tax effort, they would stDI need some grants to
help support maintenance of DC roads.
12.   Fourth, better ways of channelling funds for road maintenace need to be developed,
which will ensure that funds allocated for road maintenance are not diverted and used for
other purposes. Ihis applies at both central government and district council levels.
13.   Fifth, planning and programming capabilities for maintining and rehabilitating the
road network need to be improved.
ZJPresumably, the Minister of MCT



-18-
Detailed Descrition of Project CQmponent
14.   Given Zambia's diffculties in maging and maintaiing its road system in the past,
and as Zambia is proposing to embark on a comprehensive program of road rehabilitation and
maintenance, there is an urgent need to create a sustainable, transparent and efficient system
for managing roads. In order to assist the Government in developing such a system, and to
prepare the first year of the proposed multi-year RRP, the project w'dl comprise technical
assistance as follows:
A. Poliopp: The project will provide policy support in the form of a national
road transport policy study, wbich will help the Government to revise the institutional
framework for managing and financing roads. The study will take account of recent studies
supported by AfDB and the European Economic Community (EEC) and would also build on
the consensus developed as a result of the RN National Road Maintenance seminar which
was held in mid-February 1993. The study takes CAP 766 as its starting point, bearing in
mind the recommendations of the RMI seminar, and will then develop recommendations
aimed at putting the management and financing of roads on a sustainable long-term basis. In
particular, the study will:
(i) develop a new administrative classification scheme for roads and then reclassify the
road network to establish clearly which agency is responsible for each part of the road
network. This exercise will draw on the results of the road lnventory work carried
out under the AfDB study, together with the road inventories to be prepared by FRS.
This information will be used to determine the overatl length of the road network
(particularly main roads), which roads fall under the jurisdiction of DCs and which
roads are entitled to receive financial support under existing provisions set out in CAP
766;
(U)  recommend an appropriate institutional structure for managing the road network
through an autonomous Highway Authority and propose the manner In which the
Authority will function. In particular, it will recommend the structure of the Board,
the role of the Chief Executive, a middle management stucture (including suggestions
for dealing with urban and rural roads) and their terms and conditions of employment.
It will also propose appropriate financial accounting systems and auditing
arrangements;
(iii) propose arrangements for introducing an explicit road tariff to generate sufficient
funds to enable the proposed Highway Authorit to operate and mainan the road
network on a sustainable basis. It will examine the scope for improving
administration of current charges (to reduce evasion), the scope for seeking local
authority contibutions to support road maitenance, ways of financing rehabilitation
and new construction, and the type of audit anrangements needed to ensure the funds
are properly accounted for; and
(v)  prepare a plan for handling the transition from the status quo to the proposed
Highway Authority. The plan will estmate the number of staff likely to be affected
by the new arrangements, how many staff may be made redundant and whether there
is likely to be a shortage of qualified technical staff (and what can be done about it).
The plan will also examine the scope for redeploying redundant staff as labor sub-
contractors (with, or without, retraining).



-19-
The technical assistanoe wil assist the Govnment to prepare a Cabinet Paper and,
following approval of the proposed arrangements, a draft Highway Authority Bill for
consideration by Parliament. To ensure continued commitment, the RMI will organize one or
two worshops at critical stages of the study to disseminate the results of the studies and to
allow opportuity for feedback from concerned road transport interests. It is expected that the
audience would include road haulage associations, the motoring association, contractors,
consultants and farming interests. It is estimated that about 45 staff-months of consulting
services will be required over a period of one year to complete the study.
B. Project Prep,aMaion IbTis component would include detailed engineering of road
rebabiitation works to be carried out in the first year of the proposed multi-year RRP. The
fist year of the RRP five-year program will be based on the ten-year priority program
identified in the recently completed Afl)B-fnanced RMOT Study, and include the detailed
design and preparation of tender documents for rehabilitation of the Kapiri-Nakonde road, In
addition, the project will finance the feasibility study and, if the rate of retur is satisfactory,
the subsequent preparation of tender documents for rehabilitation of the Luangwa Bridge, a
major bridge on the Great East Road that was constructed in 1968 and now is showing signs
of serious structural defects. The detailed engineering works for subseqlent years of the
RRP, also based on the priority list from the RMOT study, would be finmnced under the RRP
itself. It is estimated that about 120 staff-months of consulting services will be required for
the road rehabilitation and about 50 staff-months for the Luangwa bridge over a period of two
years and one year, respectively.
C. Instutional Develognj=: This component combines a range of studies and
technical assistance to help the various instutions involved with some aspect of road planning
and/or management to fulfill their respective responsibilities. These include the following:
(i) the design and implementation of a highway management system (HMS), which will
assist the Government in adapting technical stdards to levels that are economically
sustinable, and based on an analysis of pavement and traffic data and technical
options, identify and assign priorities to road rehabilitation and mahnce; the
outoome will be the capability to develop annual and rolling programs of works and
expenditures d  optimize the net social benefIts for any pmrailing level of funding;
about 210 staff-months of consulting services/technical assistance will be required;
(ii) an equipment management and maintenance study to explore how RD's large
equipment, plant and vehicle fleet could be managed and mantned in an efficient
manner, ! -,- 'ing what role the private sector might play in providing equipment and
maintenance services to RD; about 15 staff-months of consulting services will be
required;
OiH) a study of the local consulting and construction industry to establish the range and
competence of domestic firms, identify any constraints hampering their development,
and prepare an action plan for removing constaind to their development; of particular
concern will be whether and to what extent the present representation of domestic
consultants and contractors would be capable of taking a more active role in the
rehabilitation and maintenance of the road network, now or in the future; about 15
staff-months of consulting services will be required;



-20-
(iv) establishment of PRS within MLG, which will cover roads managed by RDCs; the
section will be responsible for channelling funds from the development budget to
support construction and rehabilitation of RDC roads, if required, implementing the
collection of local revenues for maintenance of RDC roads, and annually
recommending to MCT the appropriate level of grants from the recurrent budget to
support the maintenance of RDC roads. While the unit wil act as a cleading house
for central government programs, It will not undertake specific maintnce works as
these will be performed in accordance with the arrangements agreed to in the policy
study (para 14A). As a point of departure, the unit will carry out a comprehensive
inventory of all RDC roads and prepare prioritized maintenance programs
emphasizing labor-based maintenance methods wherever feasible; about 300 staff-
months of consulting services/technical assistance will be required;
(v) a specialized private accounting firm to assist the implementing agencies In
maintaining the project accounts and to carry out the annual audits will be employed
with a total estimated input of about 20 staff-monts.
Proect-Management
15.   Ite project will be implemented by MCT, MLG and MWS, with the Director of
Planning in MCT designated as the Project Coordinator. Each of the implementing agencies
will be responsible for the project components directly associated with its current
responsibiliti'-.: MCT for policy support, MLG for the FRS, and MWS for all other road
components. The project coordinator will be responsible for overall project monitoring, while
arragements for project accounting and auditing will be made by MOF. A Steeing
Committee has been appointed to oversee the project and provide a forum for the discussion
of terms of reference and policy recommendations. The committee includes representatives of
each of the duee implementing agencies as well as representatives of MOF and NCDP. The
Steeting Committee also guides RMI activities and this provides contiuiy and broad
participation ranging from government employees to road users to private contractors. Use of
the RMI Steering Committee will further help the Government to implement the
recommendations for regulatory and institutional reform agreed to during the RMI Seminar.
The Steeing Committee will meet at least quarterly, with the frequency determined by the
program of reviews required by the project implementation schedule. Each agency's
representative will also serve as that agency's project manager, responsible for monitoring
progress in project implementation and providing monthly updates to the project coordinator.
The project coordinator will be responsible for overseeing the implementation of all project
components and for coordinating with other projects and on-going technical assistance.



-21-
Section B: Proeict Cpst Pinancing. Procurement and Disbursements
16. The total project cost, including contingency allowances but net of taxes and duties, is
estimated at US$9.0 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$6.4 million or 71%.
The Government will bear the cost of taxes and duties (if any) levied on imported goods and
the consulting firms providing the services. Project cost estimates are summarized in
Schedule A.
17. Base cost estimates are calculated in April 1993 prices. The physical contingencies
represent 10% of the base cost, and the price contingencies, corresponding to 8% of base cost
plus physical contingencies, are derived from the implementation schedule and the expected
foreign price increase of 3.7% per annum.
Project Financin
18.   In view of the serious domestic resource constraints, the Government contribution to
the project will be limited to about 5% of the total costs, that is, to US$0.5 million. The IDA
Credit will finance the foreign exchange component of US$6.4 million and a substantial share
of the local cost amounting to US$2.1 million. The financing schedule is shown in Schedule
A.
E=rement
19.   Consulting firms, and short- and long-term individual consultants, if any, will be
recruited both locally and internationally. The selection, qualifications, experience and terms
of employment for the consultans will be subject to standard IDA procedures as set out in the
World Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants (August 1981). It was agreed at negodations
tht () all consultancies will be selected based on competitive proposals, (ii) price will be a
factor in the selection process with a weight of up to 15%, and (iii) the Bank's sample Letter
of Invitation, and Sample Contract for Consultants' Services will be used in the procurement
process. ITe staff-months required for the consulting services are shown below:



-22-
Proleta Compoent                                   St,aff XMonfi
National Road Transport Policy Study                   45
First Year Road Rehab11itation Program                120
Luangwa Bridge                                         S0
Highway Management System                             210
Equipment Management and Maintenance Study             15
Construction and Consulting Industry Study             15
Feeder Roads Section                                  300
Project Accounting and Auditing                        20
Disbursent
20.   Disbursements will be made against standard Bank documentation. The Credit finds
will be disbursed to finance (i) 100% expenditures for the project components for which MCT
and MLO are responsible, the national road transport policy study and the tecical assistance
to PRS, respectively, (ii) 100% of expenditures for project accounting and auding,
administered by MOF, and (iii) 90% of expenditures for the project components for which
MWS is responsible (all net of taxes).I/ In order to facilitate disbursements and to ens
the timely provision of funds to finance the costs of the services, the Government will
establish a special account in the amount of US$1.0 million. Funds in the Special Account
wil be available to finance only eligible expenditures under the project. The estimated
schedule of disbursements of IDA funds is set out in Schedule B. Disbursaments are expected
to take place over a period of three and three-quarter years and to be completed by the
scheduled closing date of June 30, 1997.
Accounting. Auditing and Reporting
21.   The three executing agencies, MCT, MLG, and MWS, will maintain separate
accounts for their respective project components. Project accounts, including the Special
Account, will be audited annually by a specialized private auditing fim in accordance with
the March 1982 Bank Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Finamced
by the World Bank. At negotiations, agreement was reached that a consolidated audit report
will be furnished to IDA within six months of the end of each Govenment fiscal year. Over
the past two to three years, the Government has submitted audit reports to IDA in a tinely
manner for most projects. Some problems have been apparent, mainly with regard to
lI To simplify Government's budget allocation process, the Government contribution wil be
made through the MWS administered project components.



-23-
accounting and audit of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs), but the arrangements for
employment of a private auditing firm will rectify such problems.
22.   During negotiations, agreement was reached on the implementation schedule
(Section C). It has been prepared on the assumption that the Credit becomes effective in
October 1993 and the various sudies and technicad assistance consultancies would get under
way in November 1993. With a thee-year Implementation period for the technical assistance
for the HMS, FRS and the project accounting and auditing services, the project will be
completed in early 1997 with a Credit closing date of June 30, 1997. At negotiations,
agement was reached with the Government on the content and timing of quarter!y progress
reports and submission of the Government's contribution to the project compleiion report
Niterma lRewiv
23.   The Director of Planning/project coordinator in MCr will be responsible o%r
oranizing and convening a midterm review/project implementation workshop to be held in or
about December 1994. The midtem review/workshop will be attended by the project
Steering Committee, the IDA supervision mission, technical specialists and consultants
employed under the project, and representatives of donor agencies ative in the roads sector.
The review process will include, but not be limited to, progress in meeting the project's
policy, technical and developmental objectives, amounts and adequacy of counterpart funding,
mechanisms to improve project implementation, and action programs to implement study
recommendations and to prepare the proposed RRP. Needs identified to that date will be
reviewed and discussed to guide preparation of the RRP.
Sheule of Actions Taken/to be Taken and Agreements Reached
24.  Tie following actions have been agreed with the Government to facilitate timely
project implementation:



-24-
RESPONSIBLE         COWPLETED/TO BE
ACTIONS ACREED AT APPRAISAL                   AGENCY              COWPLETED BY
The Acting Director of Planning, NCT, willt be the
Project Coordinator                                  KCT               October 8, 1992
The Project Coordinator wilL participate in         NI.                Aprit 19, 1993
negotiations in Washington         _            _
The Government will make decision on tocation of     MCT, KWS, MLG    Condition for
Feeder Roads Section, and formally notify the                          negotiations; February
Bank                                                                   25  1°93 (tetter from
minister of ICT)
ACTIONS AGREED AT NEGOTIATIONS
Generat Procurement Notice drafted and submitted     "CT,  AS, PLO    April 22, 1993
for publication
Goverment approval of the negotiated draft credit  MOF                 Kay 15  1993
agreement to be transmitted to IDA
Terms of Reference for all consultancies             ONCT NWS. NLG   April 22  1993
Shortlists of consultant firms for all               NCT, tNS. NLG    July 16  1993
corsuttancies
All consulting firms to be selected through          HCT, NWS, MLS    October 31. 1993
comPetitive proposals                              !
The Bank's Sample Docunents to be used for the       MCT, WUS  HLG    October 31. 193
procurement_process                                I  _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
The specific implementation arrangements and the      CT, NSW NLG    April 22, 1993
roles of Ws, WS, and HLO, as well as the Terms
of Reference for the Steerimp Committee
The continuous assignment of the Director of         MCT               April 22  1993  and
Plmnning, UCT, as project coordinator                                  continuously thereafter
The Bank to review the road sector's annual          NOF NCDP,         October 31 of each year
irteatment program                                   MCT, MUS NL6
The implementation of study recomendations in        NOf. NCT. NWS,   December 1994
consultation with IDA, and in accordance with        NLG
agreed time schedules
The project mid-term review to take place in         NOFP NCDP,        Desember 1994
December 1994                                        %CT, aN S NLG
The three implementing departments will maintain     MOF, NCT, MUS,   Aprfl 22. 1993, and
separate project accounts                            NL6               continuously thereafter
Project accounts will be audited by an Independent  HOf, CT            June 30 of  ach year
auditor, and audit reports submitted to IDA within
six months of the end of each fiscal year
HOF will contract a specialized private auditing     MO?               lune 1994
firm to carry out the annual audit
The project implementation schedule (Appendix D in   NCT, NUS, ML      December 31. 1996
KOP)                         ._.
The Government's submission of quarterly progress    MCT               February 15. 1994, and
reports                                                                every three onrths
thereafter



ZAMBIA
TRANSPORT ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
ACTNIlY              ACTtON   1992   _    199             1994            le95             1996        1997
BY   JASOJF          J A                 ONtJFMAM JA    DJF 4      AJ JAS)HO' JFM A.
1. IDA CREDIT
APPRAISA                     IDA
NEGOTIATIONS                Gav
BOARD PRESENTION              IDA
SGNCRETAOGEEME              GOVTA
CRE  AGRElENT EFFECTIVE      IDA
2. SILECflO OIF CONISULTANT
TERbM OF REFERENCE AND      GOYT/_DA
SHORTUST
SUBMISSI  OF PROPOSALS    0ONStUTSTA_
EVALUATI AM AWAM            GOVT_IDA
CONSULTAS MOZTION         tONSILTANTS
& POLICY SUPPORT
ROAD MAINTNANCE             oOVTA 
fIAWTIVE SBMNA
NATIONAL RO  TRANSPORT 
POLICY STDyy
4. PROJECT PREPARATIOMMETAILED
FIRST YEAR ROAD REHABILITATION tNULTT_S
PRIOGRAM
LWUANGWA BRIDGE           CONSILTANTS                     -  _       _ _
L. INTTUTOL DEVELOPMENT
tlGHWAY MANAGMET SYSTEM  GbtTOv0S                         -      _                                _       _
EQUIPMENT MANAGEMENT AND   GMVirCONS
MAINENANCE STUDY
CONSTRUCTON AND CONSULTING  GOmVUCONS
INDUSTRY STUDY
PROJECT ACCOUNTING AND
AIJWTING                   amiTCONS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E4W?



-26-
SectionD
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
TRANSPORT ENGINEERING AND TE2NCH=              ASSISTANCE gOC
JUPERVISIQN PLAN
1.    IDA Supervision nput. Bank staff input into the supervision of the project will take
the following form:
(A) Portfblio Management Operations:
Review of work programs/schedules, reports (progress, final and feasibility and
design), and financial statements at headquarters and correspondence and internua
rortin related to such activides are estimated to require 6 staff weeks in each year
of project execution.
(B) ESvision:
The supervision of the project in the field will comprise three broad areas:
(1)    Po1igy S    - (a) detailed review of progress in formulating
recommendations for revenue mobilizadon and insttional reform under the
Road Policy Study, and (b) provide assistance, if requested, in the redew of a
'white paper' based on the study recommendations for parliamentary
consideration.
(ii)   Proect          - review of (a) Kapiri Mposhi-Nakonde Road engineeriAg
study and (b) Luangwa Bridge study.
iii)    tibsloi   Development - (a) detailed review of progress in selecting,
adapting and implementing the highway management system, (b) review of
options idendfied in the equipment management and minteace study and
subsequent implementon plan, (c) detailed review of progress in eliminat
barriers to the development and use in the road sector of domestic conuling
and constuction firms, (d) review of progress in setting up a feeder roads
section in MLG, including selecion of staff, development of work program
and procedures, and recommendations regarding the fu g of RDC roads,
and (e) annually, review of the transport sector's investment program.
2.    It is planned to undertake field supervision of the project on a semi-annual basis.
After the first year of the project, it Is envisioned that supervision missions wili coincide with
preparation of the proposed RRP. A project implementation workshop wil be held in
conjunction with the midterm review to assess progress and improve future implemenation.
The workshop will also assist preparion of the RRP and will be coordinated with other
donors to provide a comprehensive assessment of needs in the roads sector.



-27-
3.    Each mission will conclude with an aide-memoire and wrap-up meeting to review the
mission's major findings and summarizing any actions requiring fiuther atention. An activity
plan for the first two project years is indicated in the table below.
PELD =SUPRVISION PLAN
Staff
Approximate                                                           iput
Date                                        Expected Skill            (staff-
(month/year)  Activity                       Requirement              weeks)
8/93     Project launch workshop        Highway Engineer,            8
Transport Policy Specalist,
Disbursement Officer,
Procurement Officer
2/94      Review of progress of technical   Highway Engir,           4
assistance and studies        Transport Policy Specialist
7/94      Review of progress of technical   Highway Engine,          4
assistance and studies; action  Equipment Specialist
program for implementation of
study recommendations
12/94     Mid-term review/project        Highway Engineer,            6
implementation workshop; same   Transport Policy Specialist,
content as above plus         Transport Economist,
disbursement status, amounts and  Disbursement Officer
adequaq of counterpart fimding
and action program for the
remainder of the project
6/95      Review of progress            Highway Engineer             2



IBRD 24598
ZAMBIA                           2, 2W
TRANSPORT ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT                                                                                           T A N Z A N I A
HIGHWAY NETWORK
EXISTRlG ROADS:                RAILROADS                                                                                                  lbP
INTERNATIOAL MAIN ROADS  RIVERS                                                                    M 8 A L A
_MAIN ROADS                      APSWMP
DITSTESC ROADs              AIRFIDELDS
RUMAL isTRicroADs    a DSISTRIET ARADQUOIJARTERS
VIRTUOUS AMNK HN3HAY PROJECTS  *  UROVNCf HEADQUARTERS                                  M  P  .6 0 KOSO
-    CONSTRUCEN          -     DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                                                                   _NS
.... DETAIUEDEN1INEERING  -^    EOVINCE BOUNDARIES                         a        -                                  C       w~~
z FEASMUTY sTUDY            INTERNwsMATONiAI                             F7DARIES
'A                          _          Ea R A1 ,,,                 ,
IS.                                  Z A g R E                                                     -                                zEc H A M ^  AI   
i  tGA    N         A                                                                              MBIQUE
\~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IS K~ A _    lhT
IjJ?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DL RUA                                                                SE R 0N y        _
_-'~~ ~~~~                                                                                                      LUNW        M M    Z  A  M A     It  Q  Us*ks  Efy   yWbGl    y
t~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                        ~         ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ KA  BR,,OGEs -~SrI



