Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.6739-JO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
NATIONAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 15, 1987
Urban and Regional Development Projects
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =    Jordan Dinar (JD)
JD 0.33               =    US$1.00
JD 1.00              -    US$3.03
JD 1.00              =    1,000 fils
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
Kilometer (km)                   =    0.62 mile
Square kilometer (km2)           =    0.386 square mile
Hectare (ha)                     -    2.47 acres
Centimeter (cm)                       0 0.3937 inches
Meter (m)                        -    39.37 inches = 3.28 feet (ft)
Square meter (in)                -    10.8 square feet (ft2)
Cubic meter (m3)                 =    264 US gallons
Liter (1)                        =    0.264 US gallons
Liter per capita per day (lpcd) =    0.264 US gallons per capita per day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARA         -  Aqaba Region Authority
CB          -  Central Bank
CVDB        -  Cities and Villages Development Bank
GOJ         -  Government of Jordan
RABITAT     -  United Nations Centre for Human Settlements
HB          -  Housing Bank.
HC          -  Housing Corporation
HSG         -  Housing Strategy Group
IDB         -  Industrial Development Bank
IDECO       -  Irbid District Electricity Company
JCO         -  Jordan Cooperative Organization
JEA         -  Jordan Electricity Authority
JEPCO       -  Jordan Electric Power Company
JIM         -  Jordan Institute of Management
JVA         -  Jordan Valley Authority
LA          -  Local Authorities
LCHD        -  Low Cost Housing Department
LIHRF       -  Low Income Housing Revolving Fund
MMRAE       -  Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs and Environment
MOF         -  Ministry of Finance
MOP         -  Ministry of Planning
SOE         -  Statement of Expenditures
SU          -  Shelter Unit (in Ministry of Planning)
UDD         -  Urban Development Department
UDP         -  Urban Development Project
VTC         -  Vocational Training Corporation
*IAJ        - Water Authority of Jordan



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
HASHEMITE KINGDOM 0l JORDAN
NATIONAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .           ....................................    i - ii
I.    INTRODUCTION .        ..................................................      1
II. URBAN SECTOR BACKGROUhD                           ..2
A.   Urbanization Trends ................. .....................              2
B. Institutional Fiamework.                                                   2
C.   Mana&ement of Urban Growth ................................              3
Infrastructure Services.                                          3
Land Use Planning and Zoning.                                     4
Social Services.                                                  4
D. Housing.                                                                   5
E.   The Government's Emerginji- Urban and Housing Policies                   6
F. Bank Group Role in the Sector.                                            8
III.  THE PROJECT ..............         .....................    10
A.   Project Objectives ........................................    10
B. Main Features of the Project .10
C. Detailed Project Description .11
Upgrading .11
Land Development for Sites and Services .12
Core Housing and Housing Loans .12
Community Facilities ...............                 .................    13
Institutional Development ..........* .................    14
D.   Project Costs and Financing ...............................    14
Project Costs .14
Financing Plan and Flow of Funds .15
E.   Implementation Arrangements ...............................    17
Status of Project Preparation .17
Implementation Schedule .17
Procurement ......... .................................    19
DisbursemenLs .21
Reports, Accounts, and Audits .21
Monitoring and Evaluation .22
Supervision Requirements .22
IV. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS                    ....22
A. The Project Entities                      .... 22
General. .                                                       22
The Urban Development Department    ...23
The Housing Bank of Jordan            . . .25
The Cities and Villages Development Bank    ...                  28
Local Authorities              . . .29
B. Subproject Cycle                   . . .30
General                       ...30
Identification and Preparation           . . .30
Appraisal    ...30
Final Design                   .... 32
Implementation, Supervision, and Monitoring   ...                32
C. Project Coordination                       ... 33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclesed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
V.     COST RECOVERY, MARKETING AND AFFORDABILTTY .....................                  33
A .   Cost Recovery . ............*................ .......... ....a              33
B.   Market Considerations .......... .. . . ..  * .. ..*...*......*.*.. . .. . . .  .  34
C.   Affordability ... . .* ..........  ......*....... ...... * . . 4 ...... *.4**44  36
VI.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ......................... * ........                         37
A.   Project Benefits                                                             37
Economic Justification ...........                                   38
Economic Rate of Return ............                                 38
B.   Project Risks .................... .. *........                    ..        39
C.   Environmental Impact                                                         39
VII.  ASSURANCES AND PECOMMENDATION  . ..........                                        40
TEXT CHARTS, &AD TABLE3
1II-1.       Project Costs Summary .....................................                 16
III-2.       Sunmary Project Financing Plan ............................                 18
III-3.       Flow of Funds ....... ..a............. *4**  440 44a*  *.44*44*            18
111-4.       Procurement Arrangements ............                        .........      20
IV-1.      Project Preparation and Implementation Process ............                 3i
V-1.      Cost Recovery Sources and Mechanisms ......................                 35
ANNEXES
1.   Subproject Eligibility Criteria                                                   41
2.   Detailed Project Costs .........................................                  48
3.   Detailed Description of Aqaba Subprojects  ......................                 50
4.   Anticipated Work ProRram for UDD................................                  55
5.    Procurement Rules Clarified during Negotiations                ......            56
6.   Estimated Schedule of DibLsemnt..................                                 58
7.   Project Execution Responsibilities ......                                  ..     59
8.    Project Cost Summary, Financial Tables..........................                 60
9.   Incomes and Affordability ......................................    71
10.   Economic Analysis                                                        ...    84
11.    Pipeline of Potential Subprojects  ..............................                87
12.   Key Indicators ..........  ........;. 88
13.   Contents of Project File .............6............. 6 .......                    89
Charts
Cl.  Organization of the Jordan Housing Bank.........................                    90
C2.  Organization of the Urban Development Department......                              91
C3.  Organization of the Cities and Villages Devrelopment Bank........                   92
Photographs, Successful Upgrading in Amman
Map (IBRD 19915) Location of Subprojects in Pipeline



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
NATIONAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower  :    Government of the Hasnemite Kingdom of Jordan
Implementing    The Urban Development Department (UDD) of the Ministry of
Agencies:     Municipal and Rural Affairs and the Envircnment (MMRAE), the Jordan
Housing Bank (HB), and the Cities and Villages Development Bank
(CVDB).
Amount    :     US$26.4 million.
Terms           Seventben years, including four years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Onleuding       The Borrower would onlend US$4.2 million to BB for loans to project
Terms   :     beneficiaries for house construction and improvement.  The maturity
and grace period for the onlent funds would be the same as under
the Bank loan but the interest rate would be fixed at 7.92 percent.
About US$10.1 million would be passed by the Borrower to UDD to
finance construction of infrastructure facilities and core houses.
This amount and interest charges (calculated at 7.92 percent per
annum) would be recovered through sale of plots. The remaining
US$12.1 million would be passed to UDD for construction of social
facilities and off-site infrastructure works; these costs are not
recoverable from project beneficiaries. The Borrower would bear
the foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
Project         The proposed project would finance, through a line of credit,
Description:  subprojects located throughout Jordan comprising:  (a) upgrading
and new site development to benefit about 8,000 households;
(b) mortgage loans for about 5,000 families in these sites to
enable them to purchase plots and finance house construction or
improvements; (c) community facilities, such as schools, clinics,
and community and training centers; and (d) advisory services,
training, and logistical support for institutional strengthening.
The UDD would plan, design, and implement the subprojects; the HB
would appraise the individual subprojects, and provide construction
finance to UDD and mortgage loans to project beneficiaries; the
CVDB would appraise the social faLilities and channel Government
funds for their construction, and when necessary, provide
construction finance.
Benefits and    The principal benefit of the project would be improved provision
risks:        of shelter and related services at prices affordable to low-income
households without resorting to large Government subsidies. At
least 60 percent of the investment would benefit households between
the 10th and the 40th percentiles of the urban income range. The
project would also mobilize a large amount of private savings for
acquisition of homes and house improvements. The proposed proje_t
would extend a development model which has proven successful in two
previous Bank-financed projects in the Greater Amman area; the
demand for small plots has been high and comnunity support for the
upgrading works has been strong. Nonetheless, the expansion of
this type of activity to smaller townsiand cities introduces some
uncertainty about market demand and community acceptance.



- ii -
Project Cost Summary                              Local       Foreign        Total
US$ million----------
A. Site Development
Land                                      32.67           0           32.67
Infrastructure                             9.69           9.16        18.85
On-plot development                        4.13           2.75         6.88
Building & Material Loans                  5.72           2.95         8.67
Community Buildings, Furniture
& Equipment                              7.25           8.61        15.86
Subtotal                                     59.46          23.47        82.93
B.  Design and Supervision                         1.06           0.46         1.52
C.  Project Management                             2.43           0.27         2.70
D. advisory Services, Training
& Equipment                                 0.58           1.13         1.71
Total Base Line Cost                              63.53          25.33       88.86
E.  Price Contingencies                            3.38           1.09         4.47
TOTAL PROJECT COST /a                             66.91          26.42        93.33
/a of which taxes are US$0.8 million
Financing Plan
Households                                        17.3            -          17.3
Housing Bank                                      29.3            -          29.3
Government                                        20.3            -          20.3
World Bank                                         -             26.4        26.4
Total                                            66.9           2            93.3
Estimated Disbursements
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
-------------…US$ million ------------------
Annual                     0.3      2.3     6.1      5.8     5.3       4.0    2.6
Cumulative                 0.3      2.6     8.7    14.5    19.8       23.8   26.4
Economic rate of return is estimated at 15 percent for the subprojects for
which costs and benefits could be quantified at appraisal (representing about
26 percent of total project costs). Other subprojects would have a minimum
economic rate of return of 9 percent with an expected average for all
subprojects of 16 percent.



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
NATIONAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     Jordan1' is a highly urbanized country.  Following three decades of
high population growth and massive immigration, about 70 percent of its 2.8
million inhabitants live in cities and towns. The urban population is growing
at an annual rate of about 5 percent.2  Fueled by remittances, housing
investments since 1975 have averaged 25 percent of gross capital formation and
9 percent of GDP--an exceptionally high figure for a country at Jordan's
income level (US$1,560 per capita GNP in 1985).
1.02     Because of the Government's infrastructure and zoning policies, much
of urban housing has taken the form of sprawling, scattered developments on
large plots. This brought with it excessive infrastructure costs and a
shortage of housing affordable to low-income groups. The poor had little
choice but to live in overcrowded conditions in rental apartments or in
informal housing areas. The first Bank-financed Urban Development Project
(UDPI, Loan No. 1893-JO, US$21 million, 1980) signaled a significant departure
from past policy; it developed 2,800 small residential plots and upgraded four
slum areas accommodating about 1,400 families. The success of this project in
addressing the housing needs of the poor in a cost-effective manner without
Government subsidies led to a second project (UDP2) in the Amman area (Loan
No.2587-JO, US$28 million, 1985). Reflecting its aim to achieve a more
balanced regional development and responding to the shelter needs of the poor
outside the capital area, the Government gave the Urban Development Department
(UDD)--which had been responsible for implementing the first two projects--a
nationwide mandate in 1986.
1.03     The proposed National Urban Development Project would support the
Government's policy initiatives and help finance the development of new sites,
low-cost housing construction, and upgrading of squatter areas with service
deficiencies throughout Jordan. It would adopt the same basic development
approach--with heavy emphasis on affordability, cost recovery, and community
involvement--that has proved successful in the two previous Bank-financed
projects. Because of the different conditions prevailing in smaller urban
centers, however, several institutional innovations would be introduced in the
proposed project: the UDD would plan, design, and implement the land
development and upgrading schemes in cooperation with local authorities; the
Jordan Housing Bank (HB) would appraise the individual subprojects, provide
construction finance for items for which the costs would be recovered through
1/ Data in the text that follows refer to the East Bank of Jordan.
2/ Population and urbanization data are based primarily on Department of
Statistics estimates and the results of surveys undertaken in the course
of the Housing Strategy Study (para. 2.12 below).



- 2 -
property sales to UDD and, subsequently, provide mortgages to individual
households; the Cities and Villages Development Bank (CVDB) would appraise,
channel Government funds, and provide construction financing when necessary
for the associated social facilities; upon project completion, local
authorities and concerned ministries and agencies would operate and maintain
the social and technical infrastructure facilities.
II. URBAN SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Urbanization Trends
2.01     Jordan's population of about 2.8 million is growing at nearly 4.0
percent per year. Urban areas, now housing around 2.0 million people, are
experiencing a population increase of around 5 percent per year, compared to
rural areas with a population growth of less than 2 percent per year. By the
year 2000, Jordan's urban population is expected to number between 3.5 and 4.0
million. Unemployment is an;increasing problem since the labor force is
growing at 5 to 6 percent per year while domestic and external demand for
Jordanian labor is weakening. Given the country's scarcity of natural
resources, limited arable land and water, and small domestic market, Jordan's
future economic growth and employment must depend upen export-based
manufactures and services, virtually all of which are located in urban areas.
In an era in which slower economic growth and serious budget constraints can
be expected, the development and management of efficient and cost-effective
services and infrastructure for urban areas to support these activities, as
well as to improve the welfare of a rapidly increasing urban population, are
crucial challenges facing Jordan.
2.02     Jordan's population is highly concentrated (see map IBRD 19915 at the
end of this report). Greater Amman, with a population of about 1.0 million
provides most of the country's service and manufacturing output. Zarqa, the
second largest city with a population of 0.3 million, is only 20 km from Amman
and, thus, belongs within its economic orbit. Irbid is the third largest city
with about 150,000 people. The Amman region is expected to accommodate most
population growth for the remainder of this century and to continue its role
as the main engine for Jordan's economic development. The Government,
however, has long been concerned about regional disparities in economic
activity and public services, and is taking measures to stimulate growth in
other areas. The 1986-90 Five-Year Plan includes incentives for industrial
investments in areas outside of the capital. Investment in infrastructure,
and in social, health, and educational :._rvices, is an important component in
the Government's regional development activities.
B. Institutional Framework
2.03     Several Government agencies are involved in the provisIon of shelter
and shelter-related services. In the field of housing construction and
infrastructure development, the Government-owned Housing Corporation (HC), was
established in 1966 to provide housing for low and moderate income groups,
public sector employees, and housing cooperatives. The Urban Development
Department (UDD) was established in 1980 with the assistance of the World Bank
to initiate innovative approaches to coping with urban growth; it caters
especially to households below the 40th income percentile by servicing sites,
upgrading areas deficient in infrastructure, and constructing core housing
(see paras. 4.02-4.12 below).



- 3 -
2.04     Responsibilities for the provision of physical and social
infrastructure fall primarily at the national level. Three power companies are
responsible for electricity distribution while the Water Authority of Jordan
(WAJ) is responsible for water production and distribution and sewerage works
throughout the country. The sectoral ministries, such as the ministries of
Health and Education, are charged with the provision of social services. Local
authorities have responsibility for street lighting, street cleaning,
construction and maintenance of local roads, and solid waste disposal.
2.05     On the regulatory and administrative side, some 135 municipalities, 2
regional authorities, and 300 villages are responsible for planning and
development control.  Although to a large extent the larger municipalities and
the regional authorities carry out their own planning, the smaller
municipalities and the villages generally rely on the MMRAE for these functions.
2.06     Responsibilities of the local and regional authorities vary with their
capabilities. The Municipality of Amman takes care of planning standards
within its boundary. Within urban areas in the jurisdictions of the Regional
Authorities, planning standards, approvals, and budgetary matters are the
responsibility of the Authority, which reports directly to the Prime Minister.
The Regional Authorities may delegate some of their responsibilities to
municipal authorities.
2.07     Regional, as well as city-level, planning and coordination of public
investments in the various sectors are becoming increasingly important in
avoiding waste and encouraging efficient patterns of urban development.
Personnel policies and levels of remuneration have until recently made it
difficult for key institutions to attract and retain qualified staff although
the situation is improving with the economic slowdown in the Gulf countries.
Local government management, planning, and finances are still noticeably weak.
Generally, municipalities have a limited capacity in preparing and implementing
the investment programs which will be needed to meet the requirements of a
rapidly increasing urban population.
2.08     The principal finandial institutions associated with housing and urban
development in Jordan are the HB and the Cities and Villages Development Bank
(CVDB). HB, a mixed public-private sector institution, was set up in 1974. It
operates on a commercial basis to mobilize private savings and provide housing
loans to the public. The CVDB was created in 1979 to provide loans to
municipalities and village councils for infrastructure, community facilities,
and profit-making projects. With the help of two World Bank loans, it has
evolved from a basically defunct municipal fund into an independent financial
institution. It has gradually improved its capacity to appraise small municipal
projects and assist municipalities in improving their financial management
capabilities. (These institutions are described in more detail in paras. 4.13
to 4.32).
C.  Management of Urban Growth
Infrastructure Services
2.09     Due to heavy public investments, significant progress has been
achieved in the provision of urban services such as water, sewerage, and
electricity. About 89 percent of all urban households have access to piped



water, although the quality of service is generally poor. Because of
shortages, service in most areas is intermittent and most houses have rooftop
tanks to provide some continuity in supply. Although water quality continues
to improve, tests carried out recently indicated that a significant proportion
of the samples were judged unsafe by WHO standards. Urban areas with no piped
water are typically supplied by mobile tankers. About 32 percent of the urban
population is connected to piped sewerage systems; the remainder utilizes
septic tanks and cesspits. Virtually all urban households have access to
electricity even though some of the outlying areas have to rely on private
entrepreneurs operating small generators. The main road networks are
generally of good quality. The access roads to and internal roads in
low-income settlements, however, are typically only tortuous dirt tracks.
Solid waste collection is generally adequate but the low-income areas that
have no velhicular access receive little of this service and substantial
quantities of refuse go uncollected.
Land Use Planning and Zoning
2.10     Prevailing practices for land-use planning, zoning, and subdivision,
together with high land prices, have effectively excluded a large proportion
of households from home ownership. Extensive areas, greatly in 3xcess of
immediate residential demand, have been master planned (either by the
municipalities themselves or through the MMRAE). The zoned land in Greater
Amman, for example, is estimated to be sufficient to house about 3.5 times the
city's present populatior. Planning has been carried out without reference to
the needs of various income groups, primarily in response to the high
speculative demand for land. These areas are usually zoned for plots larger
than 500 square meters. Furthermore, zoning permitting the creaticn of plots
smaller than 250 to 300 square meters is generally undertaken only after the
fact, i.e., to legalize spontaneous subdivisions, and very few new areas with
plots affordable to low-income families are being planned. Subdivision is
carried out privately, but plans have to be approved by both the municipality
and the Department of Lands and Surveys. It is the policy of the
municipalities and the utilities agencies to service, whenever feasible, all
legally subdivided land.  The costs to landowners of holding serviced but
vacant urban land are negligible due to low taxation and a general failure to
collect all infrastructure costs from beneficiaries. Relatively large tracts
of fully or partially serviced land, therefore, remain unused for long periods
of time. Land typically accounts for around 40 percent of the total cost of
an urban housing unit. Given the minimum plot sizes (250-300 square meters)
and high land prices (about JD 5 per square meter of serviced land in the
smaller towns, JD 20 in Irbid, and over JD 30 in Amman), the Housing Strategy
Group (para. 2.21 below) notes that the urban land market is characterized by
a paradox. On the one hand, there is an oversupply of serviced land zoned for
large-sized plots which are unaffordable to low- and even middle-income
families. On the other hand, there is a shortage of "formal" land plots which
are small enough to be affordable to the majority of urban households.
Social Services
2.11     While the education and health infrastructure in urban areas in
Jordan is extensive, there are significant gaps in coverage which are being
addressed by the Government with the support of the Bank. The Bank-financed
education projects, and in particular, the proposed FY88 Education Project,
further the Government's policy to improve compulsory education (grades 1 to
9). The proposed Education Project would provide, inter alia, 225,900 student



places by 1992/93; it would significantly reduce the proportion of student
places currently provided in double-shift schools operating in rented
facilities built for noneducational purposes (from 45 percent in 1985 to 25
percent in 1993). Under the Primary Health Care Project (Loan 2531-JO, 1985),
the Bank is helping to implement the Government's policy of improving the
quality of health care, notably the delivery of health services to the most
vulnerable groups--mothers and children--through a new service delivery
model.' The project supports the establishment of 25 new primary health
care centers and 13 new comprehensive health care centers; the refurbishing of
9 existing primary health care centers and 4 existing primary health care
centers to make them into comprehensive health care centers; and institutional
development measures.
D. Housing
2.12     Since the early 1970s, housing investments have averaged about 9
percent of GDP--a very high rate that has consistently been above plsn
targets. About 90 percent of these investments have been provided by the
private sector, in large part from remittances. It is estimated that about 25
percent of all remittances have been channeled into housing and real estate,
accounting for over half of the total investments in the sector. As a result
of this, and of large public investment in infrastructure, shelter and service
provision in Jordan has improved substantially over the last decade, as
measured, for example, by rates of room overcrowding, the percentages of
population with infrastructural services, the quality of housing materials,
and the size of new units compared with older ones. Nevertheless,
overcrowding remains a serious problem. According to a housing survey carried
out in 1986, about 34 percent of the urban population live in cramped
conditions with four or more persons sharing a room. The national average of
2.6 persons per room indicates a more severe overcrowding than in most other
countries at Jordan's income level. (In comparison, Turkey and Korea both
have about two pereo,ns per room.)
2.13     About 330,000 people live in official refugee camps.  Because of the
growing shortage of housing for low-income households in Jordan and the
relatively cheap housing available in the camps, there is an increasing trend
for poor non-refugee families to move inti the camps. Some 150,000 people now
live in squatter or slum areas that are characterized by illegal tenure and
serious deficiencies in infrastructural and social services. Studies of
health conditions in the Anman slums indicace that gastro-intestinal diseases
are the highest cause of morbidity in these communities and that health
condition; could be improved by increasing the quantity of safe water
available, improving excreta disposal, reducing room occupancy rates, and
extending public health education. Reflecting the low income of the
inhabitants, the degree of overcrowding in these areas is generally severe
with 3.5 to 4 persons per room. Squatting on Government lands on the urban
fringes, while a relatively new phenomenon not yet involving many people, has
been increasing in recent years. Similarly, high prices for centrally located
serviced land have pushed out low-income families to live in informally
subdivided, unserviced areas on the urban fringes. The quality and size of
the hor.Jes in these newer informal areas are generally better than in the more
centrally located slum areas.
1/ For a more extensive description of the Primary Health Care Project, see
Staff Appraisal Report No. 5441-JO, April 1985.



- 6 -
2.14     An estimated 108,000 housing units were built during the 1980-85
period, implying an annual rate of about 18,000 units. Individual owner
builders and small-scale contractors constructed about 92,600 units or 85.7
percent of the total. Cooperatives and corporate real estate developers built
2,000 (1.9 percent) and 2,200 units (2.0 percent), respectively. The public
sector accounted for only one tenth of the supply: HC -- 5,100 units (4.7
percent); UDD -- 4,400 units (4.1 percent);1' and other public agencies --
1,700 units (1.6 percent). HC, private corporate developers, and cooperatives
all basically produce housing for the middle class. In the formal sector only
UDD is geared to meet the needs of low-income families.
2.15     A limited reliance on formal housing finance characterizes the
small-scale/individual private sector. Only about one quarter of all housing
units are built with loans from the HB, corporate real estate developers, or
private housing funds. The HB accounted for about two thirds of all formal
sector financing. Thus, the 1936 housing survey indicates that the four most
important sources of housing finance, in order of import3nce, are: own
savings (including remittances), sale of jewelry, sale of property, and loans
from family and friends. Low-income households tend to build in informally
subdivided areas and have less secure income. Accordingly, they have less
access to formal housing finance than middle- and high-income groups.
2.16     About one third of all urban households rent their dwellings.
Existing landlord and tenant legislation gives freedom to landlords in setting
initial rents but it contains no provisions for subsequent rent increases.
Tenants have complete security of tenure. A detailed analysis of the 1986
housing survey undertaken by the Hotsing Strategy Group indicates that only
those householders who have occupied their units for more than ten years
benefit significantly from the current rent control. Lower-income households
are not the prime beneficiaries of the legislation and do not benefit
significantly from it. The tenancy legislation has tended to push up initial
rents and introduced an element of rigidity in the housing market leading to a
high level of vacancies.
E. The Government's Emerging Urban and Housing Policies
2.17     High urban land prices, coupled with large minimum legal plot sizes,
restrictive planning and building regulations, and :.nadequate access to
established financial markets have combined to deny the low-income population
access to reasonable housing at prices they can afford. At the same time, the
lack of instruments to guide urban growth has led to excessively high costs
for urban infrastructure provision and low rates of u-ilization of existing
facilities, A comprehensive urban development strategy has been lacking.
Although the Government's policy responses generally have been in the right
direction, they have tended to be ad hoc and piecemeal, dealing more with
symptoms than with the underlying causes.
2.18     The Government, concerned with the inadequate supply of housing for
lower-income groups for many years, responded to the problem of high housing
construction costs by establishing subsidized housing funds for groups of
Government employees and by creating the HC in 1966. Yet despite implicit
1/ It should be noted, however, that the first UDD units were complete in 1984.



subsidies, HC has failed to meet the demand for low-cost shelter. Since the
cheapest HC housing is in the form of apartments of over 80 square meters
requiring a monthly income of at least JD 250 (US$750) they are unaffordable
to people in the lower half of the urban income distribution. Furthermore,
although HC's output (see para. 2.14) has been consistently below target,"'
the units have not been attractive to middle income households and a
significant proportion of its units remain unoccupied. In cooperation with
the Housing Strategy Group, the HC is now reassessing its policies and
programs. It is likely that its future activities will be more responsive to
the needs of low-income groups.
2.19     Until recently, there was a tacit acceptance of both illegal
occupancy and disregard for building and planning regulations. Occasionally,
efforts were made to clear squatter areas and resettle the residents in
planned communitieb alchough, more frequently, the Government made ad hoc
efforts to regularize the existing tenure and zoning situations in the growing
informal settlements. The municipalities and public utilities agencies have
also made major progress in catching up with service deficiencies but these
efforts have been uncoordinated and costly.
2.20     With the creation of UDD and implementation of the firsL and second
Urban Development Projects financed by the World Bank, the Government adopted
a more systematic approach to upgrading of slum and squatter settlements
featuring regularization of tenure and coordinated provision of engineering
infrastructure and social facilities. Similarly, the sites and services
component of these projects developed small plots and core houses affordable
to low-income families. These efforts, however, were limited to the Greater
Aumnan area. In 1986, the UDD was given a new mandate to upgrade informal
settlements and develop low-income plots on a nationwide basis.
2.21     The Government has become increasingly aware that changes are needed
in legislation concerning tenancy, land ownership and taxation, and in urban
planning and zoning practices to enable the private sector to play a greater
role in the provision of housing for low-income families. Thus, in 1986, it
established a Housing Strategy Group (also called the Shelter Unit--SU) of
about 15 persons in the Ministry of Planning (MOP). The Shelter Unit, which
is financed partly by the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements
(Habitat) and the United States Agency for Internatioval Development (USAID)
has been formulating recommendations for a new national housing policy, as
well as policies in areas such as zoning and taxation. The roles of the
various agencies in the sector are being reviewed. The field work and much of
the analysis of the data have already been completed, and preliminary findings
and conclusions have been presented to a Steering Committee established for
that purpose. The work to date has highlighted the need to (a) lower tbe cost
for serviced urban land through adoption of appropriate planning standards
(especially smaller plots) and concentrated development of housing areas; (b)
upgrade squatter and slum areas throughout the country; (c) minimize direct
and indirect subsidies; and (d) reduce the role of the public sector in
construction of housing and encourage a greater role of the formal private
sector in housing development for low-income families. The final report is
1/ During the 1981-85 Plan period its output was less than 30 percent of its
target.



expected to be given to the committee this summer, and will be reviewed by the
Bank. Following the adoption of the new strategy, the group will be
responsible for monitoring its implementation and revising the programs and
strategy as is necessary to respond to changing circumstances.
F. Bank Group Role in the Sector
2.22     The Bank Group has been active in finding solutions to the problems
created by rapid urbanization in Jordan. Extensive economic and sector work
has been carried out, as well as project financing for urban development.
Recent studies include an Urban Sector Review (Report No.3965-JO, June 1983),
the Water Sector Report (No. 4699-JO, January 1984), and a Regional
Development Study (Septez.lber 1984). Based on the recommendations of these
reports, the Bank's strategy in the sector concentrates on assistance to:
raise primary urban service levels (water, sewerage, solid waste management,
urban transportation) especially to the lower-income groups; increase the
supply of serviced land for which costs would be recovered; improve physical
and development planning in Amman and other urban centers where most future
development will occur; and strengthen the capacity of local governments to
plan, implement, and manage the functions for which they are responsible.
2.23     In support of the above strategy, the Bank's lending in the sector
falls into three categories: (a) water and sewerage projects, (b) municipal
projects, and (c) shelter projects. Eight loans for water and sewerage
projects have been extended to Jordan to date. These loans have contributed
significantly to the development of the Water Authority and the current high
level of water service (87 percent of all urban and rural households) and
waterborne sewerage service (25 percent). The Cities and Villages Development
Bank (CVDB) projects (US$10 million, Loan No. 1826-JO, 1980, and US$15
million, Loan No. 2614-JO, 1985) have the objective of strengthening the
capacity of local governments to provide services. The Amman Transport and
Municipal Development Project (US$30 million, Loan No. 2334-JO, 1983) aims to
help the Amman municipality ease traffic problems, reinforce the capacity of
the relevant municipal departments to plan and execute works, upgrade solid
waste man.gement, and commence systematic investment programming on the level
of the municipality and the capital region. The First and Second Urban
Development Projects (UDPI, US$21 million, Loan No. 1893-JO, 1980; and UDP2
US$28 million, Loan No. 2537) address the need for cost-effective, low-cost
housing in the Amman region.
2.24     UDP1 upgraded four slum areas acconmodating about 1,400 families and
serviced about 2,800 new residential plots in the Amman region. The project
extended beyond narrowly defined shelter to provide sites and services as well
as upgrading, together with appropriate educational, health, and community
facilities. Vocational training and specialized training for women and
community development activities were also included. The project is being
implemented by the UDD, which was set up expressly for this purpose. Funds
for all shelter components pass through the HB, which also has responsibility
for all mortgage and building loans to individual project beneficiaries. A
special fund, the Low Income Housing Revolving Fund (LIHRF), was established
under UDP1. A 5 percent default premium payable by purchasers of UDD property
as well as profits generated from land sales are deposited in this fund. The
resources of the fund are to be used to cover possible defaults on HB loans
and for further investments in low-income shelter projects (see paras.
4.10-4.12 below).



- 9 -
2.25     The start-up of UDPI was delayed for more than a year for redesign
following a Government decision to change certain standards. After this
change, however, implementation has proceeded efficiently according to an
agreed schedule. New sites with lot sizes (about 150 square meters) tailored
to the ability to pay of the target group (households in the 10th to 40th
income percentiles) have proven to be extremely popular. Sale of new plots is
going well with three applicants per availaile plot and only one quarter
remaining to be allocated. Beneficiaries have rapidly developed their plots,
making use of mortgage loans from the HB. The repayment record in both new
sites and upgrading areas is satisfactory. Disbursements have been slower
than anticipated due to the delay as well as appreciation of the US dollar
during the main construction phase.
2.26     UDP2 built upon the experience of UDPI, incorporating several
modifications in design standards to reflect lessons learned in the first
project. Among these modifications are larger community centers, a greater
variety of plot sizes (four fifths of plots in the range 112-153 square meters
while others range up to 300 square meters) in order to respond to the demands
of various income groups, and fewer core houses censtructed by UDD. As a
result, some plots in UDP2 sites have extended the affordability range down to
the 6th percentile. The reorganization of UDD in 1986, expanding its mandate
to a national level, led to a delay in effectiveness but implementation of
UDP2 is now proceeding well.
2.27     In a parallel project, USAID is currently offering financing (Housing
Guarantee Loans amounting to US$25m) through the HB to the private sector to
provide housing for families at or below the median urban income (defined for
purposes of the program as about US$760 equivalent per month).
2.28     The proposed project would con;inue the program in Amman and extend
the provision of housing and related services to Aqaba and other urban centers
countrywide. The regulations governing UDD's operations have already been
changed to enable it to operate on a national scale. On the basis of the
experience gained under the first two projects and the capacities of the
agencies involved, greater flexibility would be given to the institutions
involved (UDD, HB, and CVDB) in preparing and appraising subprojects within
the framework of criteria established at appraisal. The project would also
strengthen UDD's capability to identify and develop a program of subprojects
and HB's ability to undertake the appraisal and supervision of subprojects
according to the established criteria. In November 1986, HB set up a separate
unit, the Low Cost Housing Department (LCHD) to deal with such projects (see
paras. 4.18-4.19 below).
2.29     The operations of the UDD are also being coordinated with those of
the HB, CVDB, and the municipalities. The CVDB will appraise the social
facilities included in the subprojects, channel funds for their construction
to the UDD from the Government, and provide bridge financing when necessary.
HB will play a similar role vis-a-vis the private sector participants. The
Shelter Unit in the Ministry of Planning will ensure that the subprojects fit
into the Government's macroeconomic policy objectives for the sector.
2.30     Future operations of the Bank should allow for preparation and
implementation of subprojects by other public and private sector agencies in
addition to UDD and for diversification of financing sources.



- 10 -
m. THE PROJECT
A.  bjejQtObes
3.01     In support of the Government's emerging urban policy, the major
objectives of the project are to:
(a)  improve living conditions in the largest remaining high density
squatter and slum areas in Jordan;
(b)  manage urban growth through rapid and cost-effective development of
basic engineering infrastructure and social facilities;
(c)  recover the cost of upgradi.g and expansion of infrastructure
facilities from the residents through land sales and tariffs;
(d)  encourage the private sector to make a greater contribution to the
construction of housing for low-income groups by making serviced and
appropriately subdivided land and financing available to individuals
and developers; and
(e)  strengthen the capacity of local institutions to undertake--rnd
finance-low-income housing and urbanization projects.
B. Main Features of the Project
3.02     The project would support a series of upgrading and sites and
services schemes throughout Jordan. It would extend the use of improved
planning and design standards-previously introduced and proven successful in
the Greater Amman area under the two World Bank-financed urban development
projects-to smaller towns and cities in the country. During project
preparation, a pipeline of subprojects was identified. Because of the large
number of relatively small subprojects, the track records of the key
institutions involved, and the desire to establish financing channels that in
the future could function without World Bank assistance, a line-of-credit
approach would be adopted for the proposed project. The UDD would plan,
design, and implement the land development and upgrading schemes in
cooperation with local authorities; the HB would appraise the subproJects, and
provide both construction finance to UDD for project elements for which the
costs are recovered in land sales and mortgage loans to individual households;
the CVDB would appraise the social facilities and channel Government funds for
their construction, and when necessary, provide construction finance. The
proposed project would include:
(a)  Upgrading of low-income squatter and slum areas with a total
estimated population of about 40,000 through regularization of land
tenure, and provision of water and sewerage, paved streets and
footpaths, and improved drainage;
(b) Land development through provision o' off-site-when required--and
on-site infrastructure for about 15,000 people (of whom about three
quarters would have incomes below the 40th percentile) and for small
workshops and trade establishments;



- 11 -
(c) Construction of core houses on up to 40 percent of the new plots to
allow for immediate occupancy and stimulate rapid deveLopment of the
new plots provided;
(d) M4ortgaie loans by HB for acquisition of plots and core houses,
construction of houses on vacant plots, and improvements of existing
dwellings;
(e)  Social facilities, niamely schools, clinics, emer&ency centers
(including fire fighting vehicles and ambulances), community
buildings, and women's training centers in upgrading and land
development areas: and
(f)  Institutional developmert through provision of advisory services and
training and logistiQal support for UDD and HB.
C. Detailed Project Desrilption
-UPgrading
3.03     Upgrading would be undertaken in sites which (a) suffer major
deficiencies in public services; (b) require significant investments in the
type of coordinated and cost-effective solutions which the UDD can provide;
and (c) have no other program underway. Sites would be chosen only where the
local authority is in full agreement with the proposed standards, and has the
capability and commitment to take over and maintain the infrastructure and
provide the municipal services. Furthermore, before start of the works the
majority of the households should have indicated their commitment to pay for
the land and infrastructure facilities through cash payments to UDD, opening
of pledged savings accounts with HB, signing written commitments, or providing
other similar evidence of intent.
3.04     A typical upgrading site has an irregular layout, plots of varying
sizes, and lack of direct access to roads or footpaths. Water supply is
inadequate and frequently obtained through illegal connections using small
diameter pipes; sewage disposal is generally by cesspits. Social services, in
general, are provided at a much lower level than the rest of the town and are
often housed in buildings of poor quality.
3.05     Key features in upgrading would be:  the reblocking of plots;
regularization of tenure; the construction and improvement of roads,
footpaths, utilities, and infrastructu-al services; and provision of open
space and community facilities. The basic standards applied would be the same
as those adopted for UDP2 but they would be modified to suit local conditi.ns
(Annex 1). The nature and scope of infrastructural and social facilities
provided in each area would take into account existing service levels in the
community to be upgraded and adjacent communities, and priorities of the
residents and the local authority responsible for the area. Maximum use would
be made of existing circulation routes. Demolitions would be restricted to
the absolute minimum necessary to provide for access by private, public, and
emergency vehicles and for establishment of essential infrastructural and
community services. Experience under UDPI and designs for UDP2 and Aqaba
sites indicate that demolitions need not exceed 10 percent of existing
dwellings. The cost of land and infrastructure would be recovered in the
prices charged to existing and new residents. Loans would be extended to
existing residents and to purchasers of in-fill plots to finance house
extension and/or improvements and charges for infrastructure.



- 12 -
3.06     Resettlement.  Wherever it would be necessary to clear plots in order
to allow for the development of community-use sites and improved circulation
and access, resettlement would be carried out according to satisfactory
practices which are based on existing Government regulations. Households
needing to relocate would be resettled within or close to the site. They will
be assisted by UDD's community development staff who, under the first two
projects, have demonstrated their ability to handle relocations sensitively.
The Bank expects similar satisfactory performance for any resettlement which
might be necessary under the proposed project.
3.07     Each case would be treated individually, on the basis of
well-established principles. Compensation in kind or cash would be given for
land, buildings, and dislocation (depending on the legal strength of claims of
the residents). Relocated households would be given first preference for
newly aerviced plots in either infill areas, or overspill areas adjacent to or
near the upgrading scheme. The phasing of construction activiLies would be
gaared to meet the needs of relocated households in a timely manner.
Land Development for Sites and Services
3.08     The selection of towns by UDD for the development of new sites and
the size and phasing of subprojects would be based on the projected market
demand from low-income households within the framework of the Government's
policies and priorities. The selection of individual sites would be based
on: (a) proximity to existing employment opportunities and services including
transportation and social facilities (or adequate scale to justify provision
of new services); (b) the tenure situation, including size of available
parcels, to permit land acquisition within a reasonable time; (c) availability
or cost of the provision of utilities and off-site infrastructure; (d) the
cost of land; and (e) appropriate topographical, soil, and drainage
conditions. The use of agricultural land would be avoided whenever an
alternative affordable site is availaLle.
3.09     The areas would be equipped with municipal infrastructure such as
electricity, water, sewerage, paved roads, and proper drainage. They would be
furnished with a fall complement of social services based on agreed design
standards (Annex 1).
3.10     Where market conditions allow, about 60 percent of the land destined
for private ownership would be subdivided into small plots (110 to 160 square
meters) and sold below cost to persons in the target group (the 10th to 40th
income percentiles). The subsidy would be covered by surpluses from the sale
at market prices of about 35 percent of the land to more wealthy families and
to private corporate developers for residential purposes and about 5 percent
for small workshops and commercial purposes. Developers purchasing parcels of
land sold at market prices would be responsible for further subdivision)
construction, and sale of houses, apartments, workshops, or commercial units
to households or firms. UDD would construct small workshops on the commercial
plots.
Core Housing and Housing Loans
3.11     Core units, comprising a kitchen and bathroom plus one or two rooms,
would be constructed by UDD on up to 40 percent of the new plots in site and
services areas. Experience under UDP1 indicates that these "starter" units
encourage sales and speed further development of the sites.



- 13 -
3.12     The project would provide mortgage loans through the HB for purchase
of plots and core houses, payments to contractors for construction or
improvements of houses, and purchase of building materials for
self-construction in all sites and services and upgrading areas. The
beneficiaries would be required to make a down payment of 10 percent of the
sales price. The mortgage loans would have a maturity of up to 18 years and
carry an interest rate of 8.5 percent."' The HB would employ procedures and
conditions similar to those used for its regular program of mortgage loans to
individuals. 2   Because not all households would want or need to borrow, the
amount allocated for mortgage loans has been based on the demand experience
under UDP1.
Community Facilities
3.13     The UDP approach to projects is to provide a full range of social
services along with shelter and infrastructural services. The extensive use
of these facilities and the results of monitoring surveys on UDP1 sites
indicate that their timely provision is critical for land sales, rapid
physical development of the sites, and fosterir.g positive community
attitudes. The actual provision of social and community facilities would vary
from site to site depending on its size, and the present and expected future
population and service availability in nearby areas. The basic planning
standards envisage a full complement of facilities in areas of about 20 ha
with an initial population of about 5,000 people (and a ultimate population of
7,000 to 9,000). The facilities include: primary, preparatory, and secondary
schools for boys and girls; health clinics (these were ranked as the highest
priority by local authorities and low-income households surveyed during
project preparation); community centers to be used for day-care programs,
nursery schools, literacy courses, and a variety of community activities (such
centers are very popular and intensively used in UDP1 sites); emergency
centers with two fire-fighting vehicles, two ambulances, a four-wheel drive
vehicle, and accommodations for fire and ambulance personnel; women's training
centers to be operated by the Vocational Training Corporation (after initial
reluctance on the part of residents, the courses offered in UDP1 areas are in
great demand). Open space would be provided for playfields and for
construction by the community of religious facilities, etc. The planning and
design criteria for community centers, emergency centers, and women's training
centers would follow those adopted under UDP2 and agreed with the sectoral
ministries (Annex 1). For compulsory schools and clinics, the standards and
criteria would be those adopted under the Bank-financed Primary Health Care
Project and the Education Project (see para. 2.11) which was appraised in
April 1987. Further details are provided in Arnnex 1.
1/  A default premium of 5 percent of the loan principal would be charged on
all mortgage loans, making the effective rate to the beneficiaries 9.24
percent. The default premium would be deposited i. the LIHRF (see para.
4.11 below).
2/  Under the project the HB would lend up to 90 percent of the purchase price
of upgraded or new units including land; the loan percentage for regular
mortgage loans normally is kept below 75 percent of the cost excluding
land.



- 14 -
Institutional Development
3.14     The UDD has effectively developed its technical capacity.  In fact, UDD
handled most technical design and supervision under UDP2 whereas UDP1 was
entirely designed by consultants. Implementation of the 1987-93 program and
future activities of UDD require about 65 man-months of advisory services, some
of which can be carried forward from the contract for UDP2. Under the proposed
project the assistance to UDD would focus on investment program management (51
mm). Local consultants would be engaged for the design of community facilities
(125 mm) and supervision of works (125 mm).  Details of the services required
and terms of reference were reviewed and agreed during negotiations by UDD. The
review of UDD's capacity a.so identified the need to strengthen coordination,
scheduling, and other management functions. Thus, a management training program
is proposed as a necessary complement to the advisory services program. As far
as HB is concerned, the advisory services and training to be provided would help
establish its capacity in the LCHD to appraise and monitor subprojects (30 mm).
This will complement HB's on-going training program and its advisory services.
RB would also purchase a microcomputer to facilitate appraisal of UDD
submissions and monitoring of their UDP portfolio and other programs managed by
LCHD. At negotiations, it was confirmed that the UDD and HB would employ
consultants with qualifications, experience, and terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank. The appointment of HB's project appraisal advisor/contract
coordinator is a condition of effectiveness.
D. Project Costs and Financin
Project Costs
3.15     Cost estimates are based on a pipeline of "subprojects" most likely to
be undertaken by UDD within the time frame covered by typical World Bank loans
(Annex 1). The overall size of the pipeline to be fina,,ced under the proposed
project is based on a detailed assessment of UDD's implementation capacity, with
particular attention to design and community relation activities. The total
cost of the anticipated investment program, including contingencies, is
estimated at JD 30.8 M (US$93.3). Summary cost estimates are shown in table
III.1 and details are provided in Annex 2. Baseline costs are based on advanced
preliminary layout plans and engineering designs for the Aqaba subprojects
(about 30 percent of the program), and on concept designs for eight other
subprojects which were considered to be most likely to be included in UDD's
1987-93 work program. It should be noted, however, that the proposed financing
and appraisal procedures would permit considerable freedom in the final
selection of subproject to be financed under the proposed project. Costs for
the Aqaba subprosects have been checked against unit prices from tenders
recently received for projects of similar nature and adjusted to reflect prices
anticipated by mid-1987. For the non-Aqaba subprojects, baseline costs were
derived on the basis of development standards and development costs from UDPI
and UDP2. Land costs were estimated on the basis of consultations with the
Department of Lands and Surveys and interviews with local authority officials
and other residents of the candidate town. Allowance has been made for a range
of site conditions likely to be encountered to ensure that the physical targets
can be met. Since the proposed loan would finance a pipeline of subprojects, no
further adjustments to indicative base costs have been made for physical
contingencies.
3.16     Foreign exchange costs of civil works were estimated on the basis of
cost analysis of specific components under UDP1 and UDP2 and the Aqaba
subprojects. Overall foreign exchange component amounts to about US$26.4



- 15 -
million or to some 44 percent of total cost excluding land.
3.17     Price contingencies on the foreign expenditures have been estimated
on the basis of Bank forecasts for international inflation at 3 percent in
1987, 1 percent in 1988 through 1990, and 3.5 percent thereafter; for
domestic expenditures they are estimated at 3 percent per annum throughout the
project implementation period. Price contingencies represent about 5 percent
of baseline costs.
3.18     Costs of technical assistance, advisory and consultant services for
project management, and training under the project amount to JD 0.6 million
(US$1.7 million). Management expenses of JD 0.9 million (US$2.9 million)
cover the costs of salaries ard other operating costs of the UDD attributed to
this project. Indirect taxes--amounting to JD 0.3 million (US$0.8 million) Or
0.9 percent of projects costs--are included in the estimates.
Financing Plan and Flow of Funds
3.19     Project investments have been divided into three parts for purposes
of financing: (a) communal elements such as off-site infrastructure and
social facilities for which costs are recovered through taxes and user
charges; (b) land, on-site infrastructure, and core houses, the costs of which
vould be recovered from the sale of property; and (c) building and building
materials loans which would be extended to target-group beneficiaries and
recovered directly by HB. Table III.2 and chart III.3 suimarize the proposed
financing arrangements which are further described below.
3.20     The proposed World Bank loan of US$26.4 million (JD 8.7 million)
would be made to the Government which would utilize JD 4.0 million (US$12.1
million) to finance the communal elements, JD 3.3 million (US$10.1 million) to
finance items for which the costs are recovered through property sales, and JD
1.4 million (US$4.2 million) to be onlent to HB for granting building and
material loans.
3.21     The construction of social facilities and trunk infrastructure and
acquisition of land for these purposes would be financed-in the form of
grants-from the Government budget. The funds (JD 5.6 million or US$16.9
million) for social facilities (including furniture and equipment) would be
channelled by the Government through CVDB to UDD. The funds for land and
trunk infrastructure investments (JD 4.9 million or US$14.8 million) would
flow directly to UDD. The Government would also ensure financing of advisory
services to UDD (JD 0.2 million or US$0.7 million) either from the budget or
from bilateral sources. The Government's net contribution would be JD 3.1
million (US$9.4 million) in cash and JD 3.6 million (US$10.9 million) in the
form of land. The remainder of the funds required for social facilities would
be covered by part of the World Bank loan (JD 4.0 million or US$12.1
million). During negotiations, assurances were secured that the Government
would finance any cost overruns on the project.
3.22     UDD would utilize JD 3.3 million (US$10.1 million) of the World Bank
funds and JD 13.5 million (US$40.8 million) provided by HB for acquiaition of
land for residential purposes and construction of on-site infrastructure and
core houses. As these construction expenditures are recovered through
property sales, an amount equivalent to that utilized by UDD from the Bank
loan would be lent by the Government to HB to assist in financing mortgage
loans by HB for project beneficiaries. These funds would be repaid over 18
years, including a grace period of three years at an interest rate of 7.92



- 16 -
TABLE IIt.l PROJECT COSTS SUNNARY
Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign   Total      Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange    Cost
-         --- -   -------  ---…--
-------JO millions---       ------Us8  millions ---    (t)       (t)
UP6RADING
Land                                  6.18     0.00      6.18    18.71     0.00    18.71         0       22
Infrastructure                        2.08     1.98      4.07     6.31     6.01    12.32        49       15
Community Facilities                  1.59     1.84      3.43     4.81     5.58    10.38        54        12
Core Hosing                           0.42     0.28      0.69     1.26     0.84      2.10       40        2
Building & Iaterial Loan              1.51     0.78      2.29     4.58     2.ZS      6.95       34        8
Commrcial Buildings & Vorkshops       0.02     0.01      0.03     0.05     0.03      0.08       39         0
Design & Supervision                  0.21     0.09      0.30     0.63      0.27     0.90       30         1
Project Hanageumnt                    0.51     0.06      0.56     1.54     0.17      1.71       10         2
Total Cost of Upgrading                12.51      5.04    17.54    37.89    15.26    53.15        29        60
SITES & SERiICES
Land                                  4.61     0.00      4.61    13.96     0.00    13.95         0        16
Infrastructure                        1.11     1.04      2.16     3.38     3.15      6.53       48        8
Community Facilities                  0.81      1.00     1.81     2.44      3.03     5.47       55         6
Core I;ousing                         0.90     0.60      1.49     2.72      1.81     4.53       40        5
Building I Ibterial Loans             0.3t     0.19      0.57     1.14     0.59      1.73       34        2
Comrcial Buildings & Vorkshqps        0.03     0.02      0.06     0.10     0.07      0.17       40        0
eign I  upervision                    0.14     0.06      0.20     0.43     0.18      0.61       30         1
Project Management                    0.30     0.03      0.33     0.90     0.10      1.00       10         1
Total Cost of Sites & Services          8.27     2.95    11.22    25.05      8.93    33.99        26       38
ADVISCRY SERVICES & TRAINING
dvisory Services                      0.09     0.26     0.35      0.27     0.80      1.07       75        1
Training                              0.10     0.10     0.20      0.31     0.30     0.61        49        1
Equipeent                             0.00     0.01      0.01     0.00     0.03      0.03      100        0
Total Cost of Advisory Services
& Training                0.19     0.37     0.57      0.58     1.13     1.71        66        2
-=  =  -- =  =_ _                              -__   _:_: _3
Total Prolect Oam  Lin  Cat            20.96     8.36    29.32    63.52    25.33    8B.85         29      100
Price Contingencies                     1.12     0.3C      1.48     3.38     1.09     4.48        24        5
TOTAL PROJECT                          22.08     8.72    30.80    66.91    26.42    93.33         28      105
Totals my not add due to rounding



- 17 -
percent. The total amount would not exceed US$10.1 million (JD 3.3 million).
From its own resources HB would also provide approximately JD 7.7 million
(US$23.5 million) and an amount equivalent to the interest charged to UDD for
construction loans for long-term mortgage financing for project beneficiaries.
The mortgage loans to UDD's beneficiaries would carry a fixed interest rate of
8.5 percent and have a repayment period of up to 18 years.
3.23     Some buyers of UDD plots would pay cash and the remainder would make
down payments amounting to at least 10 percent of the sales price. Based on
the experience under UDP1, it is estimated that the direct contribution by the
beneficiaries would amount to JD 5.7 million (US$17.3 million).
3.24     HB would also grant building and materials loans to project
beneficiaries for housing construction and improvement. Such loans are
expected to amount to JD 3.1 million (US$9.4 million) of which the World Bank
would provide JD 1.4 million (USk4.2 million), and the HB would provide JD 1.7
million (US$5.2 million). Execution of a subsidiary financing agreement
between the Government and HB, with terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, would be a condition of loan effectiveness. HB would finance its own
training and advisory services costing JD 0.2 million (US$0.6 million) if
Government efforts to secure bilateral financing for such services are not
successful.
E. Implementation Arrangements
Status of Project Preparation
3.25     The UDD has identified a "pipeline" of subprojects which is more than
adequate for a loan of the size envisaged. Subprojects in Aqaba which would be
tendered during the first year are at an advanced design stage and were
appraised in detail by the World Bank (Annex 3). UDD and HB have adapted their
organizational structures so that they will be able to assume their new
responsibilities. Additional staff needs have been identified, and recruitment
is underway. Few difficulties are anticipated in finding the right staff.
Advisory services and training needs have also been identified for UDD and HB,
and terms of reference and course specifications have been agreed for the HB.
An action program for the completion of staff recruitment and start-up of
implementation was agreed during negotiations.
3.26     Procurement procedures and bid documents consistent with Bank policies
are already being used by UDD. About 50 percent of the land which will be
needed for the implementation of subprojects is in private ownership. The UDD
has, however, developed considerable expertise in negotiating for land
acquisition and no major problems are anticipated in this respect.
Furthermore, the Government already owns the land in the subprojects that would
be developed first.
Implementation Schedule
3.27     The design and implementation of each subproject would take about
three years. Based on the anticipated schedule for implementation, it is
expected that they would be submitted to the Bank for approval before
June 30, 1989. Implementation of infrastructure and building works contracts
would commence in June 1988 with a completion of all construction expected by
June 30, 1992. The maintenance and guarantee periods would extend for another
year. Property sales and the issue of building and building material loans are
anticipated to be completed by June 30, 1993. Further details on the
implementation schedule are given in Annex 4.



- 18 -
Table III.2: SUMMARY PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ millions, JD millions in parentheses)/a
Cost Recoverd
Communal        through           Cost Recovered
Elements      Property Sales   Directly by HB          Total
Households                    --  ( -- )   17.3 ( 5.7)               ( -- )    17.3 (5.7)
Housing Bank /b               --  ( -- )   23.5 ( 7.7)          5.8 (1.9)        29.3 (9.6)
Government                  20.3 (6.7)        --  ( -- )        --  (-- )    20.3 (6.7)
World Bank                  12.1 ( 4.0)    10.1 ( 3.3)          4.2 ( 1.4)    26.4 ( 8.7)
Total                       32.4 (10.7)    50.9 (16.7)         10.0 ( 3.3)       93.3 (30.7)
Ia  Totals might not add due to rounding.
/ The Housing Bank would also finance about US$13.0 (JD 4.0) in interest
during construction charges.
Ci,rt il' ' Flow of Fir.ds
*.uss t1ilicon)    r-
Miort.gdge L0811s  Households
for House
Professional         Construction &
Services, etc.     A  Improvement
L~~~J   /  ~Mr4--.
/~~~~~ ;.              'sh Sales
6    /336a  ~Loans for        ShSae
0.6    , 33 6 a*   Acwstiton       I Down-
of Plots      p9aments
.    335 6173
1                          UDD
Individual Plots
Worla       26 4       vernme                        UDD
1   6.  .1 20 3   -15.5  Off-site Infrostructure.
Professional Services, etc
.UDD
CVDG      16.9        Communityi Buldings,
.[Equipment, Furniture
Notes-
1) Amounts Inside rounded boxes ( represert net financial contrmbution tbi thot
source Amounts on solid erro-s  -      represent long term financial tlows
Amounts In rectangular boxes    are ce9 ts of components.
A2) a/ Mortgage loans for acquisit,on of plots would also include about US$13 (JD 4.0)
mr1llon in interest during construction cMrpes.



- 19 -
Procurement
3.28     All Bank-financed procurement for civil works, and supply and
installation of material and equipment would be in accordance with the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines. Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures are
generally consistent with the need for economy and efficiency in the execution
of the project.  Annex 5 lists several local bidding practices on whit;
clarifications were secured at negotiations, at which time it was confirmed
that these points would be taken into account and that all procurement would
be carried out in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines.
3.29     Whenever possible, civil works would be grouped into bidding packages
of US$2.0 million or more and be procured through International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures in conformity with the Bank's procurement
guidelines. For large schemes, separate contracts would be awarded for (a)
on-site and off-site infrastructure and core housing, and (b) community
buildings (schools, emergency centers, health clinics, community and women's
training centers). Because of their size and geographic location, it would
not be appropriite to include works on several schemes in one procurement
package. Based on the likely pipeline of projects, it is estimated that ten
civil works contracts of US$2.0 million or more, totaling approximately
US$28.2 million, would be procured through ICB and nine contracts, totaling
about US$12.2 million, through LCB. All ICB contracts, accounting for about
70 percent of all civil works, would be subject to the Bank's prior review of
procurement documentation. The remaining contracts would be subject to
post-review by the Bank after contract award.
3.30     Goods including equipment, vehicles, tools, machinery, furniture and
fixtures for community buildings would be grouped into bidding packages valued
at US$150,000 or more, and would be procured through ICB. A margin of
preference equal to 15 percent of the c.i.f. bid price of imported goods or
actual custom duties and import taxes, whichever is less, would be allowed for
goods manufactured in Jordan provided the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes value added in Jordan equal to at least 20 percent of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods. Contracts for miscellaneous tools and furniture and
equipment valued at less than US$150,000 (and aggregating no more than
US$0.8 million) would be procured tirough LCB, or for items of less than
US$50,000, by obtaining price quotations from at least three suppliers.
3.31     Professional services and technical assistance would be procured from
firms and individuals witl qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank. Services for design and supervision to be financed with proceeds
of the loan would be procured ir. accordance with Bank guidelines for the use
of eonsultants.
3.32     Land costing about JD 11.0 million would be acquired by UDD from
non-Government owners through direct negotiation or expropriation. About 50
percent of the land for subprojects which are most likely to be implemented is
in Government ownership and would be transferred to UDD at an estimated cost
of about JD 4 million. (Most of the sites developed under UDPl and UDP2 were
acquired by UDD through direct negotiations without having to resort to
expropriation.)



- 20 -
Table III.4:  PROCUREMENT ARRANGEME."S
(US$ million)
Number       Procurement Method       Total
Contracts    ICB      LCB    Other    Cost
A. Land                                  N/A         __       __     33.3    33.3
~~~~~~~~_ _ _ _ _ _ __                  (--)     (--)     (--)_
B. Works
1. Sites & services                     7        15.1     3.5      __     18.6
Site dev. & community bldgs.                  (6.8)   (1.6)   (--)    (8.4)
2. Upgrading schemes                   12        13.1     8.7      __     21.8
Site dev. & community bldgs.                 (5.9)   (3.9)   (=-)    (9.8)
Subtotal Works                      19       28.2    12.2      __      40.4
__ (12.7)   (5.5) (--).  (18.2)
C. Goods
1. Furniture                           12         1.1     0.1     0.2      1.4
(0.9)   (0.1)   (0.1)   (1.1)
2. Equipment                           12         2.2     0.4     0.1      2.7
___ __    (2.0)   (0.3)   (0.1)   (2.4)
Subtotal Goods                      24        3.3      0.5     0.3      4.1
(2.9)   (0.4)   (0.2)   (3.5)
D. Building & material loans             N/A         __      __       9.4      9.4
.   (--)    (--)    (4.2)   (4.2)
E. Professional services
1. Design & supervision                 3        __       _        1.6     1.6
(--)    (--)    (0.5)   (0.5)
2. Advisory services                    2        __       __       1.1     1.1
3. Training                           N/A        __       __      0.6      0.6
4. Project management                 N/A         __      __       2.8     2.8
._______    (--)    (--)    (--)          (--)
Subtotal Services                    5        __       __      6.1      6.1
_______   (--)    (--)    (0.5)   (0.5)
TOTAL                               48       31.5    12.7    49.1    93.3
(15.6)   (5.9)   (4.9)  (26.4)
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are expected disbursements by the Bank.
*  -  = Not applicable.



- 21 -
Disbursements
3.33     Based on UDD's work program and experience of previous Bank loans in
Jordan (Annex 6), the loan would be disbursed over six years. The loan
closing date would be December 31, 1993. The proposed loan would be disbursed
on the following basis:
(a) 45 percent of total expenditure for civil works contracts;
(b) 45 percent of HB's disbursements for building and building material
loans;
(c) 100 percent of foreign expenditure, 100 percent of local expenditures
(ex-factory), and 70 percent of other local expenditures for
furniture and equipment; and
(d) 100 percent of expenditures for design and supervision services for
the UDD.
3.34     A special account in foreign currency would be established to
expedite project execution. The special account would be in an amount of
US$3.0 million (about four-months' expected disbursements), and would be
replenished on the basis of regular withdrawal applications. UDD would
coordinate the disbursements from the special account. Applications for
replenishments would be supported by documentation acceptable to the Bank.
Disbursements would be against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) for eligible
expenditures for contracts valued at US$150,000 or less and for HB's
disbursements for construction loans. In order to allow for urgent work for
upgrading in Aqaba, the project provides for retroactive financing of up to
US$500,000 for payments made after January 31, 1987.
Reports, Accounts, and Audit
3.35     The UDD has maintained adequate project accounts but is in the
process of improving its accounting procedures through the adoption of a
commercial system which will permit a more accurate assessment of its
performance from 1987 onwards. In addition to the balance sheet, which has
been produced for UDP2 operations, it will also produce sources and uses of
funds and income and expenditure statements for its internal operations as
well as for the LIHRF (paras. 4.10-4.12 below).
3.36     Annual project reports for UDD, and overall HB accounts, including
financial statements for the project, examined by auditors acceptable to the
Bank, would be submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the end
of the financial year. The financial statements, in addition to showing the
financial results and status of the UDD, and HB's ULP operations as a whole,
would provide sufficient details to enable separate identification of the
financial affairs of UDPI and UDP2 as well as the proposed project. Costs of
items financed on a grant basis would be separately identified from costs
which would be recovered through property sales. The annual audit of the
project accounts would include the audit of the special account and a separate
opinion on the disbursements made under Statement of Expenditures (SOE)
procedures. Auditors' reports would confirm that expenditures have been made
in accordance with the Project Agreement. UDD's reports would also be
accompanied by a management letter which would review the adequacy and
operation of the accounting and financial systems. Agreements on the above
auditing procedures were reached during negotiations.



- 22 -
3.37     The UDD would continue to prepare quarterly progress reports for
submission to the Bank not later than one month after the end of each
quarter. The form and content would be !imilar to those under UDP2 which
incorporate information regarding the status of the LIHRF and project-related
activities of HB. The HB would prepare quarterly reports showing the status
of all its operations relating to UDP1 and UDP2 and the proposed project, with
special emphasis on appraisal activities and the status of mortgage and
building loan disbursements and repayments by site for incorporation in UDD
reports. Agreements on the above reporting procedures were also reached
during negotiations.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.38     Basic monitoring and evaluation would be carried out through the
quarterly reports to be prepared by UDD. One year after the completion of the
civil and building works contracts for each subproject, UDD will prepare, with
inputs from the other agencies involved, a completion report evaluating the
success of the subproject and highlighting the lessons learned. At project
completion, special surveys would be carried out of families and businesses
located in each site to evaluate the extent to which the progressive
development anticipated under these projects has actually occurred. At
negotiations it was agreed that within six months of the close of the project,
UDD, HB, the Shelter Unit, and CVDB would jointly, through a committee
established for that purpose, prepare and submit to the Bank a Project
Completion Report summarizing the experiences gained during implementation and
the extent to which project objectives were achieved.
Supervision Requirements
3.39     Bank supervision of the project would require up to 85 staffweeks
over the six-year period of implementation. Supervision efforts by Bank staff
and consultants would be concentrated in the first three years to facilitate a
good start and timely execution of project components. Supervision teams
would variously include an engineer/planner, an economist, and a financial
analyst. Fifteen staffweeks are estimated in FY88, FY89, and FY90, 10
staffweeks in each of the subsequent three fiscal years, and 10 staffweeks for
preparation of the project completion report during FY94.
Iv. INSTIrRTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. The Project Entities
General
4.01     Responsibilities for the types of investments to be made under the
proposed project are shared by various ministries, public utility agencies,
financial institutions, local authorities, private and public sector
developers, and individual households (Annex 7). The UDD would take the lead
role in planning, designing, and implementing the subprojects and coordinating
the inputs of the various actors. The HB would appraise the individual
subprojects, provide construction finance to UDD and, subsequently, provide
mortgage loans to individual households. The CVDB would appraise and channel
Government funds and provide bridge financing for the social facilities. Upon
completion, local authorities and concerned ministries and agencies would



- 23 -
operate and maintain the social and technical infrastructure facilities. This
chapter provides an assessment of the key implementing agencies -- UDD, HB,
CVDB. It also outlines the subproject cycle which would be followed and
describes the proposed arrangements for project coordination.
The Urban Development Department (UDD)
4.02     Objectives and Functions.  The UDD was established in 1980 as a
quasi-autonomous department of the Amman Municipality. Its mandate was to
improve shelter for low-income people in the Amman region on a full
cost-recovery basis and to encourage sound spatial patterns by stimulating
urban growth in appropriate locations at lower infrastructure costs than
achieved with traditional practices. In September 1986, the UDD was given a
national mandate and was moved to the MMRAE as a special department of that
Ministry.
4.03     Organization, Management, and Staffing.  The UDD is administered by a
Board of eleven Directors chaired by the Minister of MMRAE, and including the
Directors Generals of the UDD, HC, HB, CVDB, and the Land and Survey
Department. The Director General is appointed by the Cabinet and reports
directly to the Minister.
4.04     UDD is organized on a functional basis.  Recently, its organization
has been elaborated to allow for both greater specialization and management of
operations which take place in several geographic locations within the
jurisdiction of more than one local authority. UDD now has six Directorates:
Estate Management, Population Affairs, Finance, Administration, Supervision
and Execution of Works, and Planning and Design. It has also established a
Monitoring and Follow-up Unit to coordinate activities and undertake functions
which cut across the Directorates. A separate unit is also to be established
in Aqaba to undertake the program there, which will extend beyond the period
to be covered by the proposed loan.
4.05     UDD's staff have received on-the-job training from technical
assistance personnel who worked with the department on a full-time basis
initially and then as advisers on a part-time basis. Many of UDD's staff
members have also participated in training at local institutions such as the
Jordan Institute of Management (JIM) and overseas. UDD is able to handle most
technical design and supervision tasks in-house. It has also developed
substantial competency in the social survey and community development areas of
its work. The scale of operations requires, however, that outside consultants
continue to be retained for introduction of new responsibilities and training,
especially in project coordination, scheduling, and other management tasks.
Initially, the UDD experienced a constant turn-over of staff as it was unable
to compete with the private sector for qualified staff. In order to
compensate for this, the UDD has placed an emphasis on continuous training,
primarily through in-house workshops and the preparation of operational
manuals to sustain institutional ^ontinuity. Although the change in the
economic situation in the region has made it easier for UDD to recruit and
retain staff, it will continue with its training programs for orientation of
its new staff and for upgrading skills.
4.06     UDD now has approximately 180 staff members.  About 20 additional
staff are needed to implement the national project. With this additional
personnel, UDD should be sufficiently staffed for implementation of a rolling



- 24 -
program of future projects. UDD is currently in the process of recruiting its
additional staff. In order to ensure that UDD is adequately staffed for the
implementation of the project, agreement was secured at negotiations that UDD
would recruit additional staff needed to implement its program, including
additional technical and community development staff for operations outside of
Amman, and that it would be aU'quately staffed at all times.  The appointment
of a manpower development officer and a public relations efficer is a
condition of effectiveness.
4.07     UDD Finances.  Although a Government department, UDD operates with
significant financial autonomy. Its financial resources include budgetary
allocations, loans from HB and the World Bank, grant funds from the
Government, and beneficiary deposits. At the end of 1986, UDD had assets of
JD 11.1 million (US$33.6 million) of which work in progress accounted for
JD 10.1 million (US$30.6 million). In addition, it held JD 10.2 million
(US$30.9 million) of sales proceeds in escrow. Its current liabilities were
only JD 0.8 million (US$2.4 million). Long-term liabilities consisted of
outstanding loans from the World Bank (JD 11.7 million or US$35.5 million) and
the Housing Bank (JD 3.2 million or US$9.7 million). The Government's
contribution was JD 4.8 million (US$14.5 million) which largely constituted
payments against public sector facilities under construction.
4.08     Adequate accounts are maintained for UDP1 and UDP2.  Expenditures are
clearly disaggregated by site and by recoverable and non-recoverable
categories. Final accounts are prepared, reviewed by external auditors and
submitted to the Bank on time. Cost analyses and pricing are done on a very
precise basis for physical elements. So far, however, allocation of overheads
is less precise. But preliminary analyses indicates that UDD should make a
modest profit on UDPl. The forecasts of UDD's finances with respect to costs
of and receipts from property sales under the project are given in Annex 8.
The new financial management system (para. 4.09 below) will also allow a more
accurate forecasting of the overall financial position of UDD, taking into
account the projected performance of all subprojects.
4.09     UDD is in the process of replacing its cash accounting system with a
double-entry accrual system. Its phased transition has been reflected in the
types of financial statements produced. Whereas the 1984 accounts were shown
in a balance sheet format only, the 1985 accounts included a sources and use
statement as well (Annex 8). Revenue and expenditure statements are under
preparation for 1986. At negotiations, it was confirmed that UDD would
maintain its project accounts in a commercial format acceptable to the Bank,
starting with its 1987 accounts.
4.10     The Low Income Housing Revolving Fund (LIHRF) is a mechanism to
ensure that profits generated from land sales from previous urban development
projects are reinvested in low-income shelter projects. It is managed by the
UDD according to budgets and policies approved by a management committee
comprised of the Director-General of the UDD and representatives of the
Ministry of Planning (MOP), Ministry of Finance (MOF), and RB.
4.11     The LIHRF also: (a) serves as a depository for a 5 percent default
premium payable by purchasers of UDD property to cover defaults on the loans;
and (b) absorbs interest rate risks of up to 2 percent on World Bank loans.
The fund is kept in the HB. As of December 31, 1986, it had accumulated a
total amount of JD 4 million (US$12 million) comprised of JD 1.1 million



- 25 -
(US$3.3 million) as estimated surpluses from project operations. JD 0.6
million (US$1.8 million) from default premia--collected as a 5 percent
addition to the sales price--and JD 2.3 million (US$7.0 million) from
Government contributions. Following UDD's transition to a commercial
accounting system and an audit of its accounts on that basis, the committee
will have a sounder basis for determining the magnitude of the surpluses
generated from sales.
4.12     The 5 percent default provision is conservative in relation to HB's
lending for new developments. HB's arrears record is excellent. Arrears as a
percentage of total loans and facilities outstanding was only 0.4 percent in
1986. Since it is using identical arrangements regarding guarantors,
verification of borrower's income, etc., in the UDPs, as in its regular
lending activities, repayment performance should be similar for new sites.
For upgrading, however, where there is less opportunity for HB to reject
beneficiaries and the possibility of residents refusing to take out loans with
BB, the risk relating to construction finance extended to UDD as well as
individual mortgage loans is greater. Under the proposed project, some 4,000
plots will be upgraded, as opposed to about 2,000 under UDP1 and UDP2
combined, and, thus, increased emphasis is being placed on the risk management
function of the LIHRF. Rather than relying on the fund to reimburse actual
defaults, the UDD and LCHD have also started to examine ways of addressing
potential defaults before they occur.
The Housing Bank of Jordan (HB)
4.13     The HB was established by the Housing Bank Law of 1974.  It is a
public limited liability company with the majority of its shares (90 percent)
held privately. Of its JD 12 million subscribed shares, the Government and
the Central Bank hold 4 percent each and the Real Estate Investment Group of
Kuwait holds 24 percent. Most of the remaining shares are held by a number of
commercial banks, insurance companies, and other companies and individuals in
and outside of Jordan. The shares are traded on the Amman financial market.
4.14     Objectives and Functions.  The HB's overall mandate is to support and
promote housing and construction activities in Jordan within the general
framework of national shelter needs and development goals. Its activities
include accepting deposits and making loans for housing and other purposes;
investing in companies involved in general construction, manufacturing of
building materials, or development activities; acting as a real estate
trustee; and offering banking services to a wide range of private and public
institutions involved in housing production and marketing. In response to the
Government's increasing concern for meeting lower-income housing needs, the HB
has been expanding shelter credit for lower-income groups.
4.15     The HB has acted as an intermediary lender for World Bank loans to
Jordan for UDPI and UDP2 by on-lending to UDD and project beneficiaries the
funds on-lent to it by the Government. It has supplemented this lending with
additional funds from its own resources.
4.16     Organization, Management, and Staffing.  The Board of Directors of
the HB consists of eleven members: the Chairman, who is also General Manager
of the Bank; the Vice Chairman of the Central Bank; representatives of the
Housing Corporation; and seven other shareholders. The HB has sorne 80
branches throughout the country, the largest number in Jordan. I is an
efficiently run organization which constantly monitors its own performance and



- 26 -
adjusts its operations to improve its effectiveness and efficiency. About 30
of the branches have opened within the last 6 years, but the total number of
bank employees has remained fairly constant at about 1,000. The slow growth
in staff size reflects management efforts to increase efficiency through
improved staff training and automation of its operations. The HB has also
provided technical assistance to similar institutions in the region.
4.17     The HB was reorganized in 1986 following the completion of a
study--assisted by Citibank's Consulting Division -- aimed at rationalization
of branch operations and improving profitability. It now has ten separate
departments: Accounting and Financial Planning, Real Estate Investments,
Personnel, Computer Operations, Research, Foreign Relations, Legal Affairs,
Credit, Deposits and Customer Services, and Low-cost Housing, as well as a
Corporate Lending Division. Two assistant deputy general managers have
responsibility for (a) banking operations, and (b) investment and
administration planning. It has also established regional offices to which
some of the functions formerly handled by its headquarters staff have been
delegated.
4.18     The Low Cost Housing Department (LCHD) was created in November 1986
to deal with low-cost housing. It has eight established posts including that
of manager, three loan officers, an economic researcher, and a social
researcher. The posts of financial analyst and engineer have not yet been
filled. At negotiations agreement was secured that the LCHD would be
adequately staffed. The appointment of a financial analyst and an engineer is
a con4ition of effectiveness. Most of LCHD's staff were previously in the
Managed Loans Division, which was responsible for loans managed on behalf of
agencies such as the Aqaba Regional Authority (ARA) and the Jordan Valley
Authority (JVA), as well as the USAID Housing Guaranty Program and UDP1 and
UDP2. In addition to its managed loan portfolio, the LCBD will expand its
responsibilities to include promotional activities and the appraisal and
follow-up of subprojects under the proposed World Bank project and the USAID
program (see para. 2.27).
4.19     Changes which are being introduced in HB's management of the program
are expected to improve operations by reducing the drop-out of applicants who
are discouraged and therefore do not complete the process and by speeding up
loan processing. Responsibilities for implementing the program will be shared
by HB's branch staff and LCHD. The branch staff currently receive and process
applications cn the basis of criteria and procedures determined in
headquarters and manage the loan portfolios once they are established. Under
the proposed project they would also promote lending in candidate communities
to facilitate the take-out of loans following implementation. LCHD's
responsibilities for mortgage and home improvement loans would include:
(a) recommending incentive systems to HB's senior management to ensure
that branch managers are encouraged to promote the program;
(b) reviewing and, where appropriate, revising lending criteria and
procedures;
(c) briefing branch staff and conducting seminars for them, as well as
for UDD field staff on the program;



- 27 -
(d)  ensuring that branch staff are involved with the subprojects from
the early stages, working alongside UDD's community development
staff to foster a better understanding of requirements,
constraints, and possibilities among the HB, UDD's site team, and
the beneficiaries;
(e) monitoring the performance of the branches; and
(f) deciding on cases submitted to them by the branches.
The LCHD would also be responsible for the appraisal of subprojects for
construction financing and following up on implementation. In so doing, they
would coordinate their activities with those of MOP, CVDB, and UDD. They
would also release construction loan funds, manage the withdrawal of loan
proceeds, and prepare inputs for incorporation in UDD quarterly reports and
other reports, including the Completion Report for the project.
4.20     HB Finances.  The HB has sustained a remarkable growth in its twelve
years of existence. Total assets reached JD 392.9 million (almost US$1.2
billion) on June 30, 1986. In the five-year period ending December 31, 1985,
its assets grew by a compound annual rate of 20 percent.
4.21     Total deposits reached JD 268.7 million as of June 30, 1986.  For
this five year period ending December 31, 1986, deposits grew at a compound
annual rate of almost 17 percent. Much of HB's rapid growth may be attributed
to tax exemptions for interest on deposits, Government guarantee of all
deposits, and its aggressive savings mobilization programs. For savings
deposits alone HB's total of JD 99.6 million at the end of 1985 represented 72
percent of a total savings at all Jordanian banks combined. HB's customer
base is wide and varied, with many small savers in low-income neighborhoods
with accounts of JD 25-100. In 1983, the HB had some 289,000 deposit
accounts, but it has strived to improve its efficiency and has closed inactive
accounts. By mid-1986, savings accounts had declined to about 268,000 or 2
for every 3 households in the country indicating a very high level of market
penetration.
4.22     Lending activity has also grown rapidly.  Total loans outstanding
having grown at a compound annual basis of about 22 percent between 1980 and
1985. By the end of 1985, the HB had financed over 60,000 housing units
mostly for upper and middle income families. For its lending to low-income
earners through its individual loan program, the RB extends loans at 8.5
percent which can be compared with the rate of 6.5 percent paid for savings
deposits.
4.23     HB's high growth has not, however, been translated its higher
earnings, in part because profit levels in the early years of its operations
were quite a bit higher than might be expected from a housing finance
institution. Thus, the long-term growth in profits has been less impressive
than HB's overall growth and it has stagnated in recent years. Net income for
1985 (JD 2.7 million) was the same as in 1980. As a percentage of total
assets, net income has dropped from 2 percent in 1980 to 0.8 percent in 1983
and 1984, and 0.7 percent in 1985 and 1986. Although the current level still
represents a reasonable return, the trend requires c'ose monitoring. HB's
declining profit levels are attributed to (a) its rapid expansion of new



- 28 -
branches; (b) the increasing cost of funds due to growing sophistication of
depositors who have been shifting their funds away from savings deposits
paying 6.5 percent (set by the Central Bank) to term deposits and CD's paying
8.5 and 8.75 percent, respectively; and, (c) a stagnant return on loans
(roughly 8.7 percent since 1979).
4.24     Steps being taken to improve operations, which are largely based on
the Citibank Study (see para. 4.17), include a more modest increase in
deposits and loans outstanding than previously has been the case. It is also
impr^ving the efficiency of branch operations, establishing a corporate
lending function, and improving overall profitability through better cost
accounting and, hence, control of costs.
The Cities and Villages Development Bank (CVDB).-'
4.25     Objectives and Functions.  CVDB was established to assist
municipalities and villages in the identification, preparation,
implementation, and operation of projects designed to: (a) meet the basic
human needs of the less advantaged segments of the population in the country;
(b) raise the living standards of rural and urban groups by providing
improved infrastructure services; (c) create local employment opportunities in
all regions, except the Amman Municipality; and, (d) improve income
distribution by integrating the less developed areas in the national
development process. The World Bank has supported CVDB in its projects
through two loans (see para. 2.23).
4.26     CVDB is empowered to grant long and short-term loans to
municipalities and villages or other agencies acting on their behalf,
participate in their projects, and guarantee loans and manage funds made
available by other sources to its borrowers. It was also given responsibility
for administering a Regional Development Fund which was created in 1986.
4.27     Organization, Management, and Staffing.  CVDB is administered by a
Board of nine Directors comprising the Minister of MMRAE (Chairman), CVDB's
General Manager (Vice-Chairman), and representatives from the Ministry of
Planning (MOP), MMRAE, Ministry of Public Works (MPW), Ministry of Finance
(MOF), and the Central Bank, and two representatives of CVDB's borrowers.
CVDB is organized along functional lines into seven departments: Technical,
Loans, Financial, Internal Audit and Organization, Administration, Planning
and Statistics, and Regional Fund Management.
4.28     Policies and Procedures.  CVDB operates within the framework of:
(a) a Policy Statement adopted in 1985 setting out its general goals and
policies regarding management, loans, deposits, finances, and outreach;
(b) Project Eligibility Criteria which provide general guidelines for the
appraisal of projects as well as define technical restrictions, standards,
general and specific financial conditions, minimum size, and the documents to
be provided with loan applications; and (c) Executive Regulations.
1/ For a more extensive description of CVDB, see Staff Appraisal Report for
the Second Cities and Villages Development Project, Report No. 5623-JO,
July 1985.



- 29 -
4.29     Under the proposed project, CVDB would conduct technical and social
appraisals of community buildings to ensure that costs estimates are
reasonable and reliable and that their provision is justified. It would also
manage the funds from the Central Government for these facilities (para.
3.21). This would complement CVDB's other contacts with municipalities and
ensure that the new subprojects fit in with the program being financed by CVDB
at the municipal level. It would also provide a basis for broadening CVDB's
outreach to the municipalities to include land use planning and development.
This exposure eventually would enable CVDB to include similar subprojects in
its loan portfolio. The costs to CVDB of appraising and following up on
construction of community facilities would be borne by the Government.
Execution of a management and credit agreement between the Government and
CVDB, with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition
for loan effectiveness.
Local Authorities
4.30     While the local authorities would not play a direct role in the
implementation of the program, their indirect role would be an important one.
During identification of the pipeline of subprojects, the local authorities
have participated actively in such endeavors as identification of priority
sites. In the course of implementation, UDD as the lead agency, would
continue to work closely with the local authorities who would have vested
their planning and regulatory powers with UDD. Upon completion of the
subprojects, the local authorities would assume the maintenance of roads and
other municipal infrastructure, and provide refuse collection and other
services to residents. As part of its feasibility study, UDD would assess the
capability of the local authorities to provide these services. For the
subproject to be eligible for funding, the local authority's capability in
this regard would need to be established.
4.31     In Aqaba, where the first subprojects would be implemented, UDD would
act on behalf of the ARA (Annex 3). The ARA was established in 1984 under
Temporary Law No. 8 with responsibility for formulation of policies, plans,
and programs for the economic and social development of the region. The ARA
has broad powers including those which would otherwise be held by the
Municipal and Village Councils, the Higher Planning Council, and district and
local planning committees. It has the authority to expropriate land, to sue
and be sued, to borrow, and to issue bonds. The President, who is also
Chairman of the Board, has the authority of a Minister and reports directly to
the Prime Minister. ARA's own implementation capacity is limited, and it has
relied on consultants and contractors for carrying out its mandate.
4.32     The feasibility study for the upgrading of the Old Town and
Shalallah, including the Khazan relocation site in Aqaba, was prepared by
consultants with financing from USAID and Habitat. The UDD prepared a
complementary proposal focussed on community relations activities. UDD is
preparing detailed designs and will manage the implementation of the project
in Aqaba on behalf of ARA. For this UDD will establish a team to be resident
in Aqaba for the duration of the work there; ARA will hand over the land by
contract area to UDD, which will pay ARA for the land as they collect from the
residents. ARA will use some of the funds thus derived to finance the
community buildings. The draft agreement to be entered into by UDD and ARA
for UDD's work in Aqaba were reviewed at negotiations. It will form a
prototype for similar agreements to be entered into by UDD and other local
authorities.



- 30 -
B. SubproLeet Cgle
General
4.33     The UDP project cycle would take the same form as the Bank's urban
project cycle. The UDD would identify subprojects and carry out feasibility
studies. Appraisal would be conducted by the HB and CVDB. After a subproject
has been given a go-ahead, UDD would begin implementation. It would finalize
the subproject designs, invite bids, let tenders, and supervise construction.
Throughout the implementation stage, HB and CVDB would monitor progress. When
the physical works are completed, UDD would hand over the community facilities
to the relevant public sector agencies, and allocate and sell land to
beneficiaries. HB would then issue mortgage, home improvement, and construction
loans to beneficiaries. The process is illustrated in Chart IV.l and set out in
further detail below. The procedures (para". 4.34-4.48 below) and criteria
(Annex 1) for preparing, approving and implementing subprojects were agreed
during negotiations.
Identification and PreDaration
4.34     The process would begin with the selection of towns.  Need based on
present housing conditions and expected future urban growth would be matched
with projected market demand for new plots and willingness to pay for upgrading
works or the likelihood of such willingness (furthered by community relations
activities). In addition to analyzing socio-economic data and policies on
preferred growth areas, formal and informal discussions have been and would
continue to be held with (a) national agencies concerned with spatial and
housing development policy-especially the Shelter Unit in MOP, which would
ensure that the towns selected are among the Government's priorities for urban
development-to target areas for examination; and (b) residents and officials of
the towns to assess effective demand within the communities and the
acceptability of such a project to the local authority.
4.35     The next step, identification of individual sites, would only be
undertaken after the local authority has approved the proposal in principle.
The UDD community liaison program which would be initiated early in the
feasibility analysis stage would be aimed at obtaining an early assessment of
likely commitment from the community.
4.36     If the preliminary investigations suggest that there is potential for a
feasible subproject, UDD would then prepare preliminary designs and a
feasibility study on the basis of existing information and supplemeatary
physical and socio-economic survey data. During the latter part of this phase,
it would also seek formal approval from the local authority and the various
agencies responsible for the operation and maintenance of the infrastructural
and social facilities proposed. In parallel, UDD would initiate the necessary
steps to gain possession of the land.
A&Rraisal
4.37     UDD would then submit its feasibility study supported by technical and
socio-economic data, in a format satisfactory to the Bank, HB, and CVDB, to HB
and CVDB for appraisal. HB would appraise the subproject to ensure that (a) the
agreed standards have been applied in a technically sound manner; (b) the costs



CHMART IV-1
Q~i ilt
31~~~11
a..,
"if
§2   Er   _  ~~~~~~~...........
'01~~~~~~~~~ -   I---  



- 32 -
are reliable on the basis of the scope of works, technical designs, and
costings which have been carried out; (c) it would yield an acceptable
economic rate of return (equal to or greater than the opportunity cost of
capital which is estimated at around 9 percent); (d) it would be affordable to
the target group according to the agreed pricing, cost recovery,
and affordability criteria; (e) the plots/core units would find a ready
market; and (f) the appropriate commitments have been obtained by the UDD
(Annex 1). CVDB would appraise the community facilities proposed on the basis
of the criteria for the provision of such services. All subproject appraisals
would be reviewed and approved by the World Bank to ascertain that all
analyses have been properly performed. It is expected that about four
subprojects would be reviewed each year from mid-1987 to mid-1989.
Final Design
4.38     After IBRD approval has been given through HB, UDD would (a) prepare
detailed designs, contract drawings and documents on the basis of up-to-date
topographical maps at appropriate scales and contour intervals, generally
1:1000 for new sites and 1:500 for upgrading with lm contour intervals, soil
tests, and central line surveys, and (b) obtain approval from the appropriate
authorities.
4.39     UDD would submit its revised project costs and an updated
affordability analysis1' with supporting documentation to HB, confirming
that the subproject is affordable and that any item which might have been
outstanding at appraisal has been cleared. MB would then notify the Bank of
its decision.
4.40     The detailed design of community buildings would begin after the
completion of layout plans and would be contracted out to a local consulting
firm. Subsequently, UDD would submit these designs and equipment and
furniture lists to CVDB, which would confirm to the Bank that designs and
specifications are in accordance with the standards approved for the projects
and are technically sound.
4.41     Following the approvals, UDD would commence the procurement phase in
accordance with the agreed procedures.
Implementation, Supervision, and Monitoring
4.42     UDD would establish a team on site to (a) assist with sales,
beneficiary selection, and plot allocation, (b) advise on and inspect house
construction, extension, and improvements, and (c) develop community
organizations, as has been the practice under UDP2. These teams would also
work closely with the staff of the HB to facilitate mortgage processing.
4.43     During construction, UDD would inform HB of any variations in the
main civil contracts and CVDB of any variations in the Social Buildings
Contracts. It would submit quarterly progress reports to HB, CVDB, and the
relevant local authority. HB and CVDB would monitor the progress of the work,
primarily through UDD's reports and occasional site visits.
1/ This would allow for the designs to be modified or the development of the
site to be reconsidered if the costs were too high. The UDD now has a
computerized model which permits the estimation of plot costs, sales
prices, cross subsidies, and a projected sales profile.



- 33 -
4.44     On completion of the works, UDD would haid over responsibility for
infrastructure and social facilities to the appropriate agencies for operation
and maintenance, and would gradually withdraw its staff from the site. Because
HB will manage the portfolio of mortgages for the site, its involvement will be
longer term.
C. Project Coordination
4.45     The UDD would bear the primary responsibility for project coordination.
Coordination would be assured by the use of action plans for subproject
implementation. These plans would be prepared and regularly updated by CDD in
collaboration with the other concerned agencies and would form the basis for
meetings between them. UDD already maintains action plans for procurement of
goods and works. During preparation of the proposed project, this approach was
successfully used internally for a wider range of tasks by UDD. Program
coordinators in UDD's Monitoring and Follow-up Unit would play a key role itl
action planning.
4.46     UDD's coordination with the communities is also critical for its success
in upgrading, as delays are rapidly translated into increased costs through
interest accruing on construction loans. UDD has already developed considerable
expertise in fostering the support of the communities, and its community
development staff will continue to play a key role in this respect.
4.47     Procedures already followed by UDD effectively coordinate its activities
with those of the sectoral ministries and utility agencies. UDD regularly
consults with these organizations during project preparation to obtain agreements
on planning and design and to ensure that they are willing and able to operate
and maintain the facilities after completion. On completion of civil works, UDD
hands over the investments to the appropriate ministry or agency. A number of
facilities have already proceeded successfully through the full cycle of project
activities under UDPl and are being operated and maintained satisfactorily.
Under the proposed project, coordination with local authorities will also be
important. In preparing the project, films and photographs taken of sites where
work is already at an advanced stage have proved persuasive in winning local
authorities' acceptance of the approach and standards used. As the program gets
underway, this type of communications would continue to be employed.
4.48     At the policy level, coordination between the principal actors is
ensured through overlapping board memberships. For example, MOP is represented
on the Boards of UDD, HB, ARA, and CVDB. UDD's board members also include the
Directors General of CVDB, NB, and ARA. Policy statements have been prepared by
HB and UDD. These statements, along with CVDB's, confirm the agencies'
respective roles and objectives under this program and in the sector.
V. COST RECOVERY, MARKETING AND AFFORDABILITY
A. Cost Recovery
5.0     The main purpose of the project is to improve the housing standards of
the poor and to give them adequate access to social services. The settlements
should also be economically viable and socially integrated communities -with a
mixture of income groups and a variety of commercial activities. The cost



- 34 -
recovery and financing mechanisms that would be adopted for the proposed project
(table V.1 and Annex 9) strike an appropriate balance between the Government's
social objectives and its wish to minimize the budgetary contribution. Two basic
principles underlie the cost recovery mechanisms. For items for which the
benefits would be enjoyed exclusively by the residents of the areas being
upgraded or newly established, costs are recovered directly through property
sales or user charges. For benefits to be shared by a wider community, costs are
recovered through taxes. These principles and their application are consistent
with those applied in other Bank-financed projects. Under the proposed projects:
(a) the cost of raw land and on-site infrastructure would be recovered
through property sales to households and enterprises;
(b) the Government would bear the cost of social facilities (including an
appropriate portion of the cost of developed land), and all off-site and
part of the on-site roads; it would recover these costs through general
taxes and where applicable, user charges;
(c) the costs of off-site utility lines (water, sewerage, and electricity)
would be recovered through normal tariffs, in accordance with current
practice, that have been found satisfactory under Bank operations in
those sectors; and
(d) about 35 percent of the serviced land would be sold at market prices to
housing developers or in larger plots to higher income families. The
surplus generated in this manner would be used for cross subsidies to
reduce the price of smaller plots soid to families in the target group
(10th to 40th percentile of the income distribution).
B. Market Consideratioas
5.02     Property markets in Jordan are heavily influenced by the flow of
workers' remittances and the prices of large serviced plots in high income areas
have been dampened by recent economic developments in the Middle East.
Indications are, however, that the demand for small serviced plots remains
strong. There were about three eligible applicants for each small plot produced
in the Amman area under UDPl, and a recent marketing effort for UDP2 plots
resulted in a rush of new applicants. The larger residential plots-L sold at
market prices generated a significant surplus that was used for cross subsidies
to the smaller plots. In general, the sale of the larger residential and
commercial plots lagged behind the sale of the smaller plots. The sales price
and, thus, the surplus realizable on such plots, however, increased with time as
occupation of the site created the market for enterprises to be established on
commercial plots and demonstrated the attractiveness of the area to the middle
income groups buying the larger plots.
5.03     The Housing Strategy Group estimates that during the period up to 1991
about 13,000-14,000 new units should be constructed annually to meet the housing
needs of the rapidly growing urban population in Jordan. Over the
1l Compared to the typical plots in normal subdivisions, UDD's market plots
are relatively small (200-300 square meters versus 500-1,000 square meters
in traditionally zoned areas).



- 35 -
Table V.1:  COST RECOVERY SOURCES AND MECHANISMS
Cost Item                                   Means of Recovery
(1)   Land                                         Property sales and general
(2)   Surveys and site preparation                 taxes (allocation according
(3)   On-site infrastructure                       to distribution of land use
(a)  Water supply and sewerage              between property sales and
(b)  Roads (under lOm. width)               social facilities)
(4)   Interest during construction
(5)   Design and supervision
(6)   Project management
(7)   Street lighting, electricity,                Property sales as above/user
water, and telephone and                     charges
sewerage connections
(8)   Core houses                                  Property sales
(9)   RoadL        aidth or more)                  50S from property sales
(allocation as above) and
50X from general taxes
(10)  Off-site infrastructure
(a)  Water supply and sewerage              User charges, sewerage
(b)  Electricity                            tax, and general taxes
(c) Roads
(11)  Social facilities
community centers, schools                  General taxes
health clinics, training centers



- 36 -
five to six years, some 5,500 plots would be developed and sold under UDP2 and
UDP3 or about 1,000 units per year. The demand from the target group (10 to
40th income percentile) is estimated at over 4,000 units per year while UDD's
output of small plots would average 700-800 units per year and represent about
20 percent of the potential demand. Thus, based on past experience,
projections of aggregate demand, and the limited supply of plots and houses
affordable to low-income groups, there appears to be a ready market for the
project plots. Although the new sites to be developed under the proposed
project would be much smaller (average about 10 ha) than the sites developed
under UDP1 and UDP2 (average about 28 ha), they often represent significant
additions to the housing and land stock in the project towns. In no case,
however, would the subprojects in the pipeline be designed to meet more than
about 40 percent of the projected demand in a given town. Furthermore, UDD
has adopted a variety of information tools and introduced flexibility in
subproject design and phasing to be able to accommodate changing demand
patterns. Consequently, there should be a ready demand for both the
cross-subsidized, low-income plots and the larger market plots at the
subproject level as well.
C. AffordabiltY
5.04     The target group for new sites comprises families of Jordanian
nationals in the 10th to 40th percentiles of the income distribution. In
A.mman sites, a further qualification is that households must have been
resident within the Amman area for at least five years. Based on the
experience from UDP1, it has been assumed that target group families would be
willing and able to pay up to 33 percent of their total monthly household
incomes on shelter (including utilities and mortgage payments), plus a
down-payment of at least 10 percent of the total plo cost. The sales price
would include the cost of raw land, on-site infrastructure, and core house (if
built by UDD) minus the cross subsidy (from the surplus generated by sales of
residential and commercial plots at market prices). A variety of plot sizes
and house types would be offered to meet the needs of various income strata
within the target group. Provision would also be made for beneficiaries in
the target group to request UDD to build housing for which the monthly costs
(debt service plus utility payments) would exceed the eligibility criteria
under the condition that the beneficiaries increase their own cash down
payment to bring debt service down to an acceptable level.1' This option is
desirable because it allows further flexibility in UDD's marketing and extends
the choices available to beneficiaries. During negotiations, it was confirmed
that these principles would continue to be applied.
5.05     For upgrading sites, the objective is that the recoverable costs of
the upgrading works are affordable to the existing residents of the site. The
monthly mortgage payment would come to 15 to 20 percent of median monthly
family income, depending on the site. In the UDPI upgrading areas, about 95
percent of the inhabitants could afford the improvement charges. In those
cases when people were too poor to afford the required payments, UDD's staff
worked out special arrangements (often in cooperation with the local
community) to enable them to remain in their residences.
1/ The 1986 housing survey (para. 2.15) and the experience from UDP1 indicate
that many low-income families have sufficient assets--or access to
assistance from relatives and friends--to enable them to afford a
downpayment which exceeds the 10 percent minimum.



- 37 -
5.06     A review of indicative cost eszimates shows the proposed upgrading and
sites and services schemes to be affordable to the households within the target
income groups. The demonstrated affordability of each subproject, however,
would be the primary criterion for HB's approval of each subproject. Annex 8
provides a description of the methodology for assessment of affordability in
the appraisal of subprojects already being used by UDD. UDD would conduct
affordability analyses: (a) as part of its feasibility studies; (b) following
final design prior to tendering; (c) during contract implementation, if there
have been significant changes due to variations; and (d) at contract completion.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Project nefits
6.01     The project is designed to address the need to provide shelter and
related services at prices affordable to low-income households, without
resorting to large Government subsidies, in a period when the country will be
operating under increasing constraints on the national budget. About 60,000
individuals would benefit from project investments, and of these about 50
percent would have incomes below the Bank-defined urban poverty threshold.
Emphasis would be placed on provision of services for the most vulnerable
groups--women and children.  The UDP approach demonstrates the feasibility of
coping both with shelter deficiency through upgrading, and with urban growth
through the provision of new shelter services. The new sites approach of UDD
provides shelter at lower economic cost than existing alternatives, because of
more efficient layouts (and hence lower land costs) and similar or lower
infrastructure costs.-
6.02     The project approach also ensures that schools, health clinics,
community centers, and training centers are provided in a coordinated manner.
Beneficiary households are increasingly participating in community development
programs under UDPl, and this opportunity would continue under UDP3. The
welfare gains resulting from these social facilities and programs--which can
not be quantified in economic terms--would be very difficult to achieve without
their inclusion in the UDD projects. By decreasing overcrowding, improving
health, education, water, and sanitation services, and providing access for
tmergency and refuse collection vehicles, health risks would be reduced
significantly.
6.03     The project would also mobilize a large amount of private savings.
The infrastructure improvements and the provision of secure tenure in the UDPI
upgrading schemes have led to a major transformation of the areas. Virtually
every household has improved and expanded its house. According to preliminary
estimates, every dinar invested in infrastructure and social facilities has
generated three to four dinars in private housing investments. In the sites
and services areas under UDP1, households have mobilized significant savings
for down payments and construction of houses on empty plots. On the Marka
site, which was completed less than two years ago, three out of every four
families who bought core houses have made additional investments in their
1/  See Annex 11 of the Staff Appraisal Report for UDP2, Report No. 5569-JO.



- 38 -
houses. Trade and other small-scale commercial activities are slowly but
steadily expanding and generating additional employment opportunities. (Some
retailers, however, complain that the people spend much of their disposable
incomes on home improvements rather than on consumption, a situation which is
expected to change after the initial construction boom.)
Economic Justification
6.04     The limited availability of serviced urban land in Jordan stands as
the fundamental constraint to the provision of low-cost housing outside of UDD
projects. These projects help overcome the land constraint for the target
beneficiary groups. The UDD approach is to assemble, subdivide, and service
relatively large tracts of urban land. This necessitates the acquisition of
land on or near the periphery of existing development. Although vacant areas
exist closer to the centers of the town, these are generally not suitable for
UDD development because (a) the land price is too high--making the plots too
expensive for the target group, (b) ownership is not clear, or is spread
between several parties, causing difficulties in acquisition, or (c) the area
is too small to allow the economic development of small plots. Acquisition of
higher priced land for low-uost plots would necessarily involve larger
Government subsidies. The current alternatives for provision of new low-cost
housing, then, would involve either unrealistically high up-front costs for
purchasers or substantial subsidies.
Economic Rate of Return
6.05     Among the criteria applied for potential subprojects would be an
acceptable economic rate of return, i.e., a return at least equal to the
opportunity cost of capital (currently estimated at above 9 percent). Costs
streams would include site development, on-site and off-site infrastructure,
on-plot housing construction, and annual maintenance and operatior of
buildings and infrastructure (generally estimated to be 3 percent of capital
costs). Taxes would be excluded from costs, and land would be evaluated at
its estimated opportunity cost. No further adjustments to prices are deemed
necessary in order to estimate economic costs.
6.06     Benefits would be estimated using imputed rental values where
feasible, i.e., on beneficiary dwelling units where market rents on comparable
units can be ascertained, Rental values would be based on recently rented
buildings in order to adjust for the effects of rent control. Where
comparative rent information is unavailable, the feasibility of using
estimated market sale value for comparable units would be explored. If any
serviced plots or partial units are to be provided, the costs of completing
the dwelling would be added to the cost stream. In the case of upgraded
units, it would be the increase in rental value attributable to the project,
rather than the total rental value, that constituted the benefit stream.
6.07     For most of the potential sites and services and upgrading areas,
final site selection has not been made and therefore, costs and benefit
streams cannot yet be estimated. Based on the detailed estimates carried out
for UDPl and UDP2, it can be expected that the economic rates of return will
range between 15 and 30 percent for upgrading and 12 to 20 percent for new
sites. Sufficient data are available for the Aqaba subprojects for a
calculation of the rate of return, which is estimated to be about 15 percent
if the costs of community facilities--for which benefits can not be



- 39 -
quantified-are excluded. If these facilities are included on the cost side,
the rate of return falls to about 13 percent (see Annex 10). The expected
average for all subprojects is 16 percent.
B. Ptjet Risks
6.08     The demand for small plots developed and sold under UDP1 was high,
and community support for previous upgrading work has been strong.  The
expansion of UDD's program to smaller towns and cities, however, introduces
some uncertainty about market demand and community acceptance. The UDD is
minimizing this risk through flexible phasing of construction, closer
monitoring of developments on the real estate market and progress of sales,
and greater emphasis on marketing. Prices, including possible transfers from
market sale plots to cross-subsidize beneficiary plots, will be adjusted on
the basis of demand. Acceptance of the upgrading package and the willingness
of the beneficiaries to pay for improved services and secure tenure vary from
area to area depending on the social composition of the community and the
history of the settlement. To counter the potential risk associated with
insufficient community commitment, UDD is putting increased emphasis on early
involvement by its community development staff and is requiring that before
work starts on an upgrading scheme, a majority of the households should have
made cash payments to UDD, opened savings accounts with RB, or signed written
commitments or indicated their intent to pay for the works through some other
comparable action (para. 3.03).
6.09     Other risks to the successful implementation of the program depend on
the ability of: the various organizations to work together; the UDD to
continue to manage its multi-faceted operations, and to innovate and expand
its capacity to address the needs at a national scale; and the UDD, HB, and
CVDB to develop new skills for their increased responsibilities. To deal with
these risks continued emphasis is being placed on training in managerial as
well as technical skills. Management techniques such as action planning, used
already in UDD for some of its activities, will be extended to cover the
activities of other organizations as well. Coordination committees are being
established to deal with areas of interface in addition to the overlapping
membership of the Boards of the key organizations. The past records of the
institutions involved, however, augur well for the success of the project.
C. Enwihnniental npoact
6.10     The upgrading schemes proposed under the project are expected to have
a beneficial environmental impact with no expected negative effects. The
unpaved roads, and inadequate drainage and sewage disposal (through poorly
constructured and maintained septic tanks and cesspits) which now exist in the
sites create a physically unattractive and unhealthy environment, particularly
in wet weather. By providing paved roads, community-use areas, adequate
drainage, and piped water and sewerage systems, the physical environment and
the quality of life for the households living in the areas will immediately
improve. Better access and circulation also facilitate the collection of
refuse by allowing vehicles to enter informally developed areas. The
upgrading of projects carried out in UDP1 have also resulted in the
development of small planted areas, while the Community Development programs,
which are an integral part of all UDD projects, have played a large role in
persuading the communities themselves to maintain these areas. The tenure
security to be provided the beneficiaries is expected to encourage them-as it
has under UDPl-to undertake themselves the improvement of existing



- 40 -
buildings, both residential and commercial. The p. oosed project would
incorporate these features which are a prerequisite tor a healthy urban
environment.
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01     AKreements reached at negotiations:
(i) The UDD and BB would employ consultants with qualifications,
experience, and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (para.
3.14);
(ii) The Government would finance any cost overruns (para. 3.21);
(iii) A special account would be established (para. 3.34);
(iv) The UDD and HB would submit audited accounts to the Bank within six
months of the end of the financial year (para. 3.36);
(v) The UDD and RB would prepare quarterly reports (para. 3.37) and UDD,
HB, CVDB, and the Shelter Unit of MOP would prepare a Project
Completion Report (para. 3.38);
(vi) UDD and LCHD would be adequately staffed (paras. 4.06 and 4.18);
(vii) The UDD would maintain its accounts in a commercial format (para.
4.09);
(viii) UDD, HB, and CVDB would apply standards, criteria, and procedures for
preparing, approving, and implementing subprojects as agreed with the
Bank (para. 4.33)
7.02     Conditions of effectiveness:
(i) Appointment of HB's appraisal advisor (para. 3.14) and of HB and
UDD's additional staff (paras. 4.06 and 4.18);
(ii) Execution of a subsidiary financing agreement between the Government
and BB (para. 3.24); and
(iii} Execution of management and credit agreement between the Government
and CVDB (para. 4.29).
7.03     Recommendation
Subject to reaching agreement on the above points, the project is
suitable for US$26.4 million Bank finance on standard terms (17 years
including 4 years of grace).



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 7
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
NATIONAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUBPROJECT ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
Items                Upgrading                              Sites and Services
A. Demand            As for sites and services, plus        Study of demographic and eco-
analysis of existing socio-            nomic structure of population;
economic situation of residents,       local incomes; housing costs;
shelter services, tenure oppor-        rentals and expenditure; and
tunities and constraints to            housing supply and demand,
intervention, and interest and         especially of low-income
commitment of local authority          families.  Scale of
and residents.                         subproject should not exceed
one half of expected growth of
the number of households in the
target income range. If large
demand is not assured, the sub-
project should be phased.
B. Location          As for sites and services              - Land ownership pattern permits
timely acquisition.
- Slopes should not exceed
about 20°.
- Soil suitable for development
at reasonable cost.
- If not within built-up area,
accessibility to employment
comparable to already built-up
area of client municipality
(assessed in terms of time and
cost of travel to work
opportunities).
- Agricultural land should only
be considered if there is no
other satisfactory, affordable
site.
- Availability of off-site
infrastructure.



- 42 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 7
Items               Upgrading                             Sites and Services
C. Beneficiaries    Existing residents, majority          At least 602 of plots
of households in areas                allocated for households below
selected for upgrading                the 40th percentile of household
should be within the 10'h             income range and distributed
to 40th percentile of the             evenly, as far as possible, over
national income distribution          the 10th to 40th percentile range
range.                                Jordanian citizens with no
other East Bank land or
home ownership.
D. Land:
Purchase        At nominal price if Government-       As upgradiny; preferably less
owned.  At minimum market price       than 4 JD m , 10 max.
if privately owned.
Use             Min. 65S productive*                  Min. 50S productive' use
Target:  752 plus                     Target:  601 use
Subsidy          Internal cross subsidy only           As for upgrading
within towns based on
differential allocations
related to plot size. The
general principle will be
that smaller plots receive
at least as much subsidy per
plot as the larger plots;
i.e., larger plots will receive
less per square meter. The
source for the subsidy is the
profit on market sales.
E. Finance          Minimum down payment 102.             As for upgrading
Mortgage and/or other bank
loans at project rates of
interest. Cash or other
reliable loan financing.
F. On-plot          Building and material loans           About 40% site and service only.
development      only, except for infill sites,        About 20S one room, bathroom, and
which are as for sites and            kitchen.  About 102 two room,
services schemes.                     bathroom, and kitchen, nothing
larger. Percentages to be
be determined according to
market demand subject to afford-
ability analysis.
* Productive area includes land for housing, commercial, industrial, and social
uses; i.e., excludes roads, rights of way, unusable land, open space, etc.



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 7
Items               Upgrading                              Sites and Services
G. Open market       As for new site                        Provision of up to 352 of resi-
development                                             dential land; plus about 5  for
shops, workshops, and commercial
plots. Market price will be
determined through open
competition and will demonstrate
positive financial returns.
H. Plot sizes        60m2 minimum                           160m3 maximum average area
250m2 maximum,                        over a range from 100-300m
based on existing                     Average plot size for a given
plot sizes                            site will not exceed 160m2.
The range of beneficiary plots
will be from around 100m2 to
around 150m. Maximum market
plot size will be 300m.
Commercial plots average to be
lOOm2 (including associated
circulation and parking).
Building Cover   Dependent on site conditions           Up to 65S.
I. Items not        As for new sites                       Off-site roads and infrastruct-
recoverable                                             ure.  On-site roads in excess of
from                                                    of 10m width, social facilities,
beneficiaries                                           buildings, and equipment.
On-site infrastructure costs in
proportion to the share of social
facilities in land use.
J. Prices           Agreed prior to construction           In accordance with affordability
(beneficiary      to be affordable and payable           criteria.  (Up to 33% of monthly
plots)           by residents in accordance             household income including
with income criteria of 20%           utilities).
expenditure limit.
K. Infrastructure   Maximum JD 9.5m2 for                   Max. JD 6.0m2 for productive
cost             productive area.                       area.
Target JD 8.5m1



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 7
Items                          Upgrading                 Site and Services
L. Cost recovery    The following need to be               As for upgrading.
specified/assessed: forecasts
of income through sales, rent,
transfers, etc.; methods of
recovery and accounting; phas-
ing of income; conditions of
disposal; agencies responsible;
mortgage and loan terms;
deposit and guarantee require-
ments, etc., and flow of funds.
M. Marketing         Plans for advance community           Marketing management plan and
commitment to the subproject,         program, including institutional
prior to commitment of expendi-       responsibilities.  Community
ture. Community development plan.    development plans and proposals.
N. Monitoring        Monitoring plot sales and the         Continuous monitoring of demand
take-up of loans and mortgages        to influence type and level of
and their recovery.                   provision and reconcile prefer-
ences with affordability.
Monitoring of cost recovery,
contract expenditure, and prices.
0. Cost estimates:
Based on mid-1987 prices including land and development cost,
administration, design, and supervision fees, interest during
construction, and price and physical contingencies. To be adjusted
January 3 for each year using construction cost index derived for the
previous 12 months.
P. Financial analysis:
All subprojects should have a discounted cash flow financial rate of
return (computed before financial expenses) at least equal to HB
lending rate for private dwelling construction net of subsidies, and
a loan to value ratio of less than 90 percent.
Q. Economic analysis:
Market analysis should show substantial demand and all subprojects
with a cost of over JD 250,000 should have an economic rate of return
(ERR) of at least the estimated opportunity cost of capital
(currently estimated at about 9 percent). Conduct of sensitivity
tests in order to determine the sensitivity of the estimated ERRs to
delays in construction prices escalation, etc.



- 45 -
Annex 1
Page 5 of 7
Items                          Upgrading                 Site and Services
R.  General commitments required prior to appraisal
and approval by Housing Bank:
(i) Land acquisition and price agreed.
(ii) Preliminary planning and engineering with detailed casts.
(iii) Local authority agrees to vest powers as necessary in UDD and/or
HB.
(iv) Local authority and other ministries and agencies agree to planned
development on their behalf and to take over, operate, and
maintain social facilities and off-plot infrastructure and to lice
full rigor of law over defaults.
(v) Local planning approval obtained together with supply commitments
from all relevant service agencies.
(vi) In upgrading areas, advance purchase agreements completed or
deposits made by majority of residents.
Development Standards
A. Road reservation          As for sites and services
Type A (main)            with modifications to
reflect availability of
space.                             16 m
B (primary
access)          Target of paved road
within lOOm of any plot.           12 m
C (access)                                             9/10 m
D (cul-de-sac)                                         8 m
Stairs and Footpaths                                         2 m to 4 m
Road section                                                 Shared use and speed bumps
for 8 m roads.
Open space               Depending on site conditions       About 6 min' per household.
Parking                  Depending on site conditions        1 space per 2.5 h.h.
B.  Community center &       As for sites and services           Site 900 m2.
children's play area.   with modifications to               Floor area 250 m2.
reflect availability of
space.
C.  Women's training         As for sites and services           Site 450 ml'.
center                   with modifications to              Floor space 250 ir1'.
reflect availability of
space.



- 46 -
Annex 1
Page 6 of 7
Items                         Upgradinz                 Site and Services
D.  Emergency center        As for sites and services           Site 4,000 nil'.
with modification to               Floor Space 840 ma'.
reflect availability of
space.
E.  Mosque                                                      For larger site and service
projects only.
Site 3,000 ma'.
F.  Playfields                                                  7,200 ma'.
Sites and Services and Upgrading
G. Compulsory Schools
Academic Unit Areat
Academic Net Unit
Accommodation Units                  Capacity per 'dnit      Area Per Student
(m2)
1.  Classroom                                  40                       1.20
2. General Science and Laboratory              40                       2.25
3.  Art Room                                   40                       2.25
4.  Vocational Education Workshop              40                       2.25
5.  Library                                    40                       2.20
6.  Multipurpose                            Variable /a 
/I  Variable with size of school.  The net area of the multipurpose hall is
180 ml for schooi with a capacity of enrollment 720 students up to 1,200
students and 120 mz for schools with enrollment capacity below 720
students.



- 47 -
Annex 1
Page 7 of 7
Items                          Upgrading                 Site and Services
Unit Area per Student Place:
Area per        Net Unit
Capacity                 School          Per Student
(m2)
360                   1,463             4.06
720                   2,451             3.40
720                  2,386              3.11
960                   2,892             3.00
960                   2,892             3.00
1,200                   3,322             2.77
1,200                   3,443              2.78
B. Health Clinics:'
Catchment area should not be much less than 5,000.
Design - MOH prototype.
Equipment - standard MOH list for Primary Health Care (MHC) model
Staffing  - in accordance with PHC model whereby a physician sees
30-50 patient per day.
Siting    - access by community to health services of other providers
and distance from other MOH services.
Plot density should be 30-40 plots per hectare (the higher figure is
for small sites or very densely developed sites with limited social building
development). "Nonproductive" land (land for purposes other than net housing,
commercial, industrial, and community building uses) should not exceed 40
percent in sites and services or 35 percent in upgrading areas.
Standard designs agreed with the sectoral ministries for UDP2, the
Primary Health Care Project (Loan 2531-JO, 1985), and the proposed Education
Project, which was appraised in April, 1987, will be used throughout.
Aqaba
The upgrading program in Aqaba necessitate some modification in the
infrastructure standards used for the rest of the pipeline because of their
large area (approximately 100 ha), the density of the development which has
already taken place, and the proportion of the town within this area (about 50
percent).
1/ Model for primary health care being implemented by the Ministry of Health
with the assistance of the Bank under the Primary Health Care Project.



- 48 -
ANNEX W
Page 1 of 2
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
NAtIONAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DETAILED PROJECT COSTS
table 1: AQABA - BREAKDOWN Or BASE COSTS
Aqaba
Al Hawh  Salahaddin  Shalallah NtI  Old Town (S   Khazan   Total
…3D----------------------------JD  000----_______-__
Land compensation & Acquisition  390          65            170              80         135       840
Survey & site preparation            10       10             12               S          44        81
Infrastructure
Off-site costs:
Water                            NIL       NIL           NIL              NIL           7         7
Sewerage                         NIL        19             19             NIL          13        51
Stormwater drainage              NIL       NIL           NIL               35         NIL        35
Electricity                      NIL       NIL            44              NIL          29        73
Roads                            N24                       L              NIL          IL 
Subtotal Off-site                 24        19            63               35          49       190
Infrastructure
on-Site costs:
Water                             47        32             58              42          71       2S0
Sewerage                         136        87           210              122         149       704
Stormwater drainage              NIL       NIL             13             NIL          57        70
Electricity                      NIL       NIL           NIL              NIL         125       125
Roads larger than lOm             40        40            75               39          87       281
Roads 7m                          16        32             11              11          50       120
Roads 4m                           15        1             22              10          2S        73
Footpaths. etc.                   1S         4            31               16           9        74
Speed bumps                        I         1            --I               1         --I         S
Subtotal On-site                 270       197           421              241         574    1,703
Buildings:
Schools                          NIL       NIL           570              570         NIL    1,140
Women's Training Center          tl,       NIL            IL              NIL         J5i        Ss
Subtotal                         NIL       NIL           570              570          SS    1195
Core Units                         NIL       238            187              13         SOO       938
Buildings & materials loans         22        i             4S              l             L    1.305
Grand Total                        993       725          1.878           1,299       1,357    6.252
Site Area (Ha)                    10.0       8.9          11.4             7.8        11.6       49.7
Subproject Type                     Ug       Ug            Ug               Ug         S/S
Ug = Upgrading
S/S = Sites & Services



- 49 -
Annx 2
Page 2 of 2
HASHEMITE KINGOCM 0O JORDAN
NATIONAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2: OTHER SUBPROJECTS - INDICATIVE BASE COSTS
HadabalI  Jan'a I  Hamlan    I A1-i    1rbtAd1  Hamian 2  Jan'A 2 Irbid 2  TOTAL
…__  M____---------------------------Jo million------------------------------
Land Compensation &
Acquisition           600    1,290       2.7SO      150    1.500    1,300    1.280    1,070    9,940
Surveys & Site
Preparation            40       SO        280       60       110       115       ISO       105    1,010
Off-site
Infrastructure          5         0         75        0        3S         0         0         0       115
On-site
Infrastructure        160       170        820      380       210       235       175       210    2.360
Core Housing            155         0        162       30       240       235         0       228    1.050
Conmercial
Buildings              10         0         25        0        40         0         0         0        75
Building & Material
Loans                  76       235        176      172       117       115       235       110    1,236
Conmunity Buildings,
Equipment and
Furniture              44       178      1,499      196       736         0         0       763    3416
TOTAL                 1,090    2,023       5.787      988    2,988    2.000    1.840    2.486   19,202
Site Area (Ha)          6.0      13.0       18.3    18.0       14.9       8.7      12.8      10.7    102.4
Subproject Type        S/S       Ug       Ug          ug        S/S       S/S       Ug        S/S
Ug = Upgrading
S/S - Sites & Services



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
Page I of 5
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
NATIONAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed DescriPtion of Aqaba Subprolects
1.       Aqaba subprojects to be included in the National Urban Development
Project (UDP3) form part of a larger development project in Aqaba. The Aqaba
Development Project (ADP) was prepared by the Aqaba Region Authority (ARA)
with assistance from the United Nations Center for Human Settlements (Habitat)
and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). The ADP
area has a population of about 21,000, almost half of Aqaba's 46,000
inhabitants, and includes practically all of the older, informally developed
housing of Aqaba. The population is of diverse origins. As they settled in
the area, they informally divided the land among themselves on the basis of
extended family ties and areas of origin. In 1953, the Land and Surveys
Department (LSD) prepared a list of residents (Old Town, Salahaddin, and
Hadwah) and gave them three months in which to pay fees and obtain a
registered land title. Because there was no LSD Office located in Aqaba,
residents who wished to comply were obliged to travel to Ma'an or Amman.
Payment of fees and title registration did not guarantee any physical
improvements. As a result, only a few households took up the offer to obtain
registered titles.
2.       Over the last four decades, the population has increased and now
occupies a much larger area than that for which the LSD tried to regularize
land tenure. The older areas are separated from the more recently settled
area (Shalallah) and the area proposed for development (Khazan) by a heavily
used "bypass" road and railway line linking Jordan's only port to the main
road network. Many of the original residents are now deceased while some have
moved away. Many current residents are the descendants of those who were
originally placed on the LSD resident list. There are also many newcomers.
This settlement history has created a complex pattern of tenure rights.
Leadership systems also reflect the history of the area. Each major group
today is headed by a Muktar, who is usually an elder of one of the principal
families, to whom the rest of the group turns for advice. A number of
relIgious leaders are active in the area. Community cohesion is, however,
weak.
3.       Densities today range from 100 to 340 persons per ha.  Renting is
common--about 43 percent of the plots are owner occupied; 37 percent rented by
families; and 14 percent occupied by bachelor groups.1' About two thirds of
the residents have lived in Aqaba for more than fifteen years.
4.       The area to be upgraded and developed slopes from the hills in the
east towards the Gulf of Aqaba in the west with a steeper gradient in the
east. The ground is very uneven, especially in Shalallah on the eastern
1/ About 8 percent of the plots are vacant or of uncertain tenure.



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 5
side of the railway and the bypass road. Aqaba water supply is generally
adequate but is now distributed mainly through small-diameter pipes which,
because they are laid on the surface, are susceptible to damage. About 83
percent of households in the project area have meters. Sewage disposal is
largely to cesspits but new trunk sewerage lines are available to serve the
project area. All but 3 percent of households are provided with electricity;
the system in the project area is, however, in need of renewal.
5.       Many of the circulation routes provided in the original informal
layouts have been subsequently encroached upon, thus narrowing the access and
blocking many earlier links. Very few are surfaced. Social service levels
are generally below those of the rest of the town. The quality of the
buildings is generally poor, with most services provided in rented structures
which were constructed for residential purposes.
6.       The ADP proposal represents a comprehensive approach, based on the
successful Urban Development Projects (UDPs) implemented in Amman by the UDD.
UDD will prepare detailed designs for implementation and execute the project
on behalf of ARA. An agreement to be entered into between UDD and ARA will
define their respective roles and responsibilities. The project will involve
the provision of engineering and social infrastructure, community development
and tenure regularization. The households who appear on the LSD list (i.e.,
have recommended ownership rights) and those with registered titles (full
ownership rights) are to be given preference in allocation and be charged less
than the others (i.e., the more recent arrivals). Similarly, compensation
will take into account factors such as the type of tenure rights and building
quality. A complementary development project will provide an alternative
route (the "back" road) for vehicular access to the port.
7.       The ADP area has been divided into subproject areas.  These areas can
be contracted separately and have a community whose size can be managed by a
UDD team. Because of the size of the area and the complexity of the social
and tenure situation, it would be unfeasible for all of the area in Aqaba to
be upgraded under UDP3. The 1987-93 program, therefore, involves the
upgrading and development of about five subproject areas (most probably
Salahaddin, Old Town South, Al Iadwah, Shalallah North, and Khazan). The
remaining areas would be upgraded under subsequent projects.
8.       The construction of some of the community facilities proposed would
also be deferred, pending inclusion in sectoral Ministry plans and the Five
Year Development Plan. All sites would, however, be cleared and reserved for
these facilities. Strict adherence to subproject boundaries would not be
required and provision would be phased according to the timing of inclusion in
the above plans and the availability of engineering infrastructure. Community
relations activities would also not be restricted to the areas undergoing
physical upgrading. Similarly, in applying the cost recovery principles UDD
and ARA will take into account the implications for the total ADP.



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 5
9.       Salahaddin.  The site, 8.9 ha in area, is located in the southern
area between the bypass road and the Corniche. It is bounded on the south by
Port Authority housing and on the north by Wadi Shallalah which forms the main
storm water drainage channel through the project area from the hills to the
east. The settlement is thus somewhat separate from the rest of the project
area, but on completion will be readily accessible from the Corniche. Its
population (about 1,000) occupy some 232 plots. About 10 plots would be
needed for social and engineering infrastructure and 90 new ones would be
created in the upgrading process. The small size of the site, the few
demolitions needed, and the potential for creation of new plots make it a
strong candidate for early implementation. Although slopes are steeper than
those elsewhere, the street pattern is well defined and generally adequate in
width. The site has two existing cemeteries and a boys compulsory school is
proposed (to be funded by USAID), resulting in a low proportion (32 percent)
of land devoted to residential use. Building standards are reasonable with
more than half the properties in good to fair condition.
10.      Old Town South.  The 7.8 ha site lies between the Corniche and the
bypass road immediately north of Wadi Shallalah. The ground follows the
general slope from east to west with occasional fairly steep, but short
gradients. The roads give vehicular access to within 50m of properties, and a
new junction is to be provided from the Corniche. Some 500 residential and
nonresidential plots are occupied by about 430 households (population of about
2,600): on completion there will be 379 residential plots (population of
about 2,300). Building standards are poor with only about one quarter of
buildings in fair or better condition. A vacant area, though physically
within Old Town North site, can be serviced from Old Town South and will be
available for a school in the present project.
11.      Old Town North.  About 19.6 ha in size, this area is physically very
similar to Old Town South. Most of the households have recommended ownership,
but a significant number have registered titles. The existing population is
about 6,400 on approximately 1,070 residential plots. There are also about
215 nonresidential plots in this area. About 125 of the residential plots and
40 of the nonresidential plots would need to be cleared for roads and
community uses. Building standards are poor, with less than 33 percent of the
buildings classified as being "good" or "fair" condition. A health center,
community center, and a women's training center, with associated child care
facilities, are proposed for this area.
12.      Al Hadwah.  This area of 10.0 ha on the west side of the bypass road
and railway line is separated from the Old Town by a dual carriageway (Al
Hadwah Street) and is easily accessible to the town center with its employment
opportunities and social activities. Its slopes are much flatter and the
ground generally more even than elsewhere in the project site. The present
population is about 2,750 in 490 households and on completion will be reduced
to about 2,100. Building standards are poor with only about one third in fair
or good condition and rather poor internal access. The project would carry
out the demolition of 63 residential and other plots to provide for road



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 5
improvements. Most of the land is in recommended ownership. Allowance for
negotiations to acquire the land has therefore been provided in the
implementation schedule.
13.      Shalallah (North).  This 11.4 ha site is bounded on the north side by
the escarpment behind which Khazan is proposed to be built. The ground slopes
steeply f=om the hills to the east towards the railway line and undulates
strongly from north to south. Access (uncontrolled) is from the bypass road
across t..e railway: it is poor for vehicles and potentially dangerous for
pedestrians. With the exception of the main access road the streets are
generally narrow so that vehicular circulation is difficult. The project will
improve both internal and external access. A new access road to the bypass is
to be built for the Khazan development. A population of about 3,700 live on
659 plots: population on completion is estimated at about 3,500. Some 65
additional plots are used for commercial and other purposes. Building
standards -re poor with less than one quarter of the buildings classified in
good or fa:r condition. Seventy plots will be cleared for road and other
improvemen:s.
14.      S alallah South.  This area of about 16 ha is very similar to
Shalallah 7orth physically, in terms of the type of development which has
taken place and level of services. The existing population of about 4,550
occupies about 785 residential plots. There are also about 72 nonresidential
plots in this area. Altogether, about 115 plots would need to be cleared for
services, which would include a compulsory boys school (to be funded by USAID)
and a women's training center with associated child care facilities.
15.      Khazan.  Some 11.6 ha of vacant land north of Shalallah are proposed
for development. Most of the 500 or so plots to be provided would accomodate
households displaced in the areas being upgraded. The site will be linked
with a new access road to the bypass road. The land slopes from southeast to
northwest and affords excellent views to the Gulf of Aqaba across the town.
As the topography is badly broken, over JD 40,000 is included in the project
for site preparation.
16.      A compulsory-level schools (funded by USAID) and a women's trainiag
and child care center will be constructed in the vacant area between Khazan
and Shallalah North.



^ --r                                                      ^ *' ' 9 -  L; + .    -~ -, W74
*    *---  -*                  .t  .          -   .~-                               22~Z1,:r .'../ 
~~~~~-                   -                                                 4     fz     ...t.4...-... -;*-;. t --/ - 
,<.9_               -   '-    '    .  S   ,_,$  99E,        -$     A                              -
N~~~~~~~~~~~N
* ~ ~~~ . .        -      . .   "- ,   ,  ,,~ ,,'
COMMERCIAL AREA"*               A  *t             ,,A ,                                                             ____
A*AN                                  A r '  '
Li~~~./s* - .                                                                           ,S ,-  _              .            .     .      ............... Nt.4
* .                  *w* j                                                   t                                             "
v w   zS                                        ~~~~~~~AQABA UPGRADING PRtOGRAMl:
'^                                             1~~~~~~~~~~~Inom  ars in con     of aff,d tow  pla
-..     ; (/ d/           n rk    i      a    k P)
--                                                    .t<...
4t             -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U



MIIADUB iUMN KEvLLUIPRJLCI
Anticipated Wrk Progrmn for eU
P2.KII}tLS Z     1Lf   J~A 12t  X5 .S  _E1 _W  .h  H  ._1. 2W.  ................ _ 1W  JAS ._ _Ef 1h  _  'a   _r W  ._  M  1   ...................... .~  11 1W  _A  _' _W Iii
UQpg A(AJIVJTILS (ON fdINCa)c                                                                         a  C
Psesita 2A £ 29       CCC CCC CCC CCC C        t*             B TTE EEN CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC * .
Iaqab                t[N CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC . . *. *a. *.*
U  Uowarah            000 008 TTE [El CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC
Atar Nassan           ccc 0.0 *-* ** ***
Jabal ADr All 1/    08T ILL EDC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC . .   * *    .
NAhatIa 1/                SSP PPA DOD 0OC  8T1 EE  MCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC    ** ***
A. UWAQ1i|
1. Aoab
Salahaddin              S SSS gOD  GOT TEE INC     CCC CCC CCC ** .. .
Old Town South            SSS SD 000 8DM8 TYE EEN CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC *              .
Sha11alab Worth               SSS SSD0OD DOO   TTE EEt CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC . .       .
Al Nadwah                          SSS SSS SOO ODD 0 B8  TEE EKC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CC      *'    **  **-  * *
Shallaldh South                         S SSS SW ODM D08 eOTT TEE ENC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC . *       .
Old Town North                             SSS SSS SSS 0D0    BOT TEE  OEC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC . .         .
2. Rest of IrAn                                                                                                                                          |   I
Hamlan I                S SSP PPA AA8 DD  OD  9BT TEE E(C CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC ... ...
Jan'a I                     S SSS PPP AAA  W 0000 088 ITT EEE MCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC * .     * .
Tafelleh                      SSS SSS PPP PAA ADO 000 D08 8TT TEE EKC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC * *        *   a. 
Jania tl                            SS SSP PPA AAB DO0 DOW 8BT TTE EEN CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC . .  I
Nadhi f                                SSS SSP PPA AA8 OOD  DO0 981 TIE EEN CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC                                               L O
8 aQan                                       S SSS Ppp AMA 800 0 O08  ITT EEE MCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC ... . .. .    . * 
1. Agikai
KIhaan                    SSS SSP PPP PAA 90O 000 088 TTl EEE M1CC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC * .
2. Rput of Jargao
Irbid I                 S SSP PPP AA8 ODD ODW 9BT TTE EEN CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC * .  . .         .
Nadaba I                           SSS SPP PPA A1D 000 008 Btt TEE E[C CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC   *         .
Irbid 11                                 S SSP PPP AA8 00  000 O8T TIE EEN CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC .
Wiaslan It                                     SSS PPP PAA 800 OD  06e TTT EEE MCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC
fNadaba I I                                                      00  00 081 tTT EEE MCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC   .
C. LWflJIT I 39JL9JIG                                                       ccccc  c   c    c           .    .    .
t.  OWa                        P PPA w00 OW 811 LEE MCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC  .
2. RI,t Qf Jordan
Hamlan                        PPP ASO O0  081 TEE E(C CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC . .  .
Jan' a                                 PP PAS 000 008 TTE EEN CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC ** . . ** A.S
lefe Ileh                                     PPP AO 000 8T1 EEtt CCC CCC CCCC CC CCC CCC ... ...
I rbid 1611                       PPP ABO OW DOT TEE EC CCC CCC CCC  CCC  CCC  CCC  CCC CCC CCC... ... ...
Legesd:
S   topographical/Center line/soil/8eneliciary Registration Surveys (ownership. occupation. household structure)
P   Pre) minidty design/Feasibsa ty studies
A   App aisal                                                                                          C - Construction and plot delivery
8   Review aind approval 43014. IBRD)/Confirmaation of subproject feasibility                          ^  Cuarantee and maintenance period
D   Fi ial detigii, psepa.atiotn of bidding documents
T   Iiddus,g                                                                    aLCe I/  The Government has recently raised the possibility
f   Bid evaluation/Contract award                                                      of replacing upgrading at Jabal Atir Ali by a similar
n   nobilization                                                                        scheme at Nahatta in Aman.
0I
o1w



NASHE"ITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
NATIONAL URBAJ DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROCUREMEN3T RULES CLARIFIED DURIG-1EGOIZhIZARS
Points to be taken into account in procurement of Bank financed contracts.
QgoCment 'A   Lnitrmclimnz for Government_Works_.Tender
Eaug na.  Art1isc              Iue                                               Commnt                                            Procedures to be included
in Documentation
12    8 (D)       Adequate time for tender announcement and            Better understanding as to                         Tenders to be advertised with
submission of bids                                   what is considered adequate                        adequate time for bid preparation
and what publicity is given to Tender.             (B. G. 2.8 and Part III 3.3).
13    8(G I 2)    One or two-envelope bid submission                   The one-envelope system is perceived               SAR and loan documentation, if
R 15  I-(B)                                                             to be more efficient. faster and fairer           necessary. to specify that both
than the two-envelope system, because             envelopes shall be opened at the
all relevant data is read in public at            same session where the two
the same time.                                    envelopes are used (B.G. 2.4S)
14    IO(A-3)     Alternate bid permitted if original bid is           Alternative bids are acceptable                    where alternate bids are to be    n
submitted in conformity with the bidding             providing that the method of comparing             invited. tender doclammnt must
requirements.                                        the alternative bids are specified in              clearly state how alternates will
the bid documents.                                be evaluated, otherwise alternate
bid can only be considered from
lowest responsive bidder for
original tender (B. G. 2.49).
14    IO(A-6)     Foreign bidders shall mention local                  Clarification is required on                       Bidder should be allowed to name
representative                                       whether local representation                       local representative only after he
is a condition for bidding.                       is declared successful bidder.
IS    13(A)       Tender  o be awarded to best offer by                Ensure that comparisons and                        Contract to be awarded to
virtue of Article 6 of the Regulations,              evaluation criteria in Article 6                   lowest responsive evaluated
of the Regulations will be applied                 bidder (B. G. 2.58).
in a manner consistent with the
Bank Guidelines.
la    13(C)       Committee may re-invite tenders if quoted            Rebidding should not be rebid on                   Rebidding decisions should not
prices are found to exceed substantially             same specifications solely to                      be automatically applied, except
the prevailing prices or if it receives              obtain lower price (B. G. 2.60)                    (1 where there is evidence of
less than 3 bids.                                                                                       inadequate competition, and
(2) where tender requirewents
should be changed to reduce price.
a,
0



Q    Qsimi    W  iQYeriUfL lQr2   Ru!lQn:
Pe                                L                                                                                                     PrNone urgA_ to be included
in DocimantattIn
4    6(D)         Awards to locgl suppiters where feasible.               Factors must be quantified for comparison            Factors for evaluation to be
Comparison of local and foreign suppliers to be    of bids.                                                  specified in tender and
made with due consideration to taxes & opportu-    No local preference for LCB (S. G. 3.1)                   quantified for cowparison.
nities for local employment.                                                                                No local preference for
LC8 (B. 6. 3.1)
10    16           Contracts for wotks can be executed by negotia         SAR to identify if any works fall                     Works to be performed under nego-
tion in specified cases.                               into this category.                                  tiated contracts will be identifi
ed in SAR and loan dt-umentation.
if necessary. (B. G. 3.5)
11   1            If prices are not reasonable, bids are                 Modification of tender docuents and                  Careful review of tender require
conditional or number of bidders lacking.              rebidding is preferred.  Bank approval               ments may be necessary in case of
approval to negotiate can be obtained,                 required to negotiate contract.                       lack of bidders or high prices.
Bank approval required to
negotiate contract for works
(S. G. 2.60).
14    21 A         Oiily tegisteted bidders can obtain contracts          Review of registration requirements                   Eligible bidders should be given .
for works.                                             should disclose if any restrictions                  opportunity to submit bids.
are present.                                         (S. G. 1.7)
16    21 0 1       Minister can form conmiattee to examine                Eligibility criceria should be ascertained.           Eligible bidders should be given
eligibility of non-Jordanian consultants                                                                    opportunity to submit bids.
and conteactors.                                                                                            (S. G. 1.7)
PQwail S   Pn O    . Caoficatiosi of CgiiLrA"Onk it) CiL!a0tx I natfl Li
Registi,tioii. unton membeiship, professional          The above documents were renamed and they            At negotiations. it is to be
licensitig.                                            provide for registration of contractors on           determined that no restrictive
the basis of qualifications. experience. and         criteria other than technical. fi
equipment available.                                 nancial and professional are in
volved which would limit competi.
tion or deny access or opportunity
to copete within their technical
competence, and qualification.
0
Mini



- 58 -
ANNEX 6
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
NATIONAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
DisburseMents        Cumulative           Jordan
US$ million     US$ million    %       Profile /a
June 30, 1987                                                        0
Dec. 31, 1987                  0.3              0.3        1         1
June 30, 1988                  0.5              0.8        3         6
Dec. 31, 1988                  1.8              2.6       10        14
June 30, 1989                  2.7              5.3       20        25
Dec. 31, 1989                  3.4              8.7       33        37
June 30, 1990                  3.2             11.9       45        50
Dec. 31, 1990                  2.6             14.5       55        62
June 30, 1991                  2.7             17.2       65        73
Dec. 31, 1991                  2.6             19.8       75        81
June 30, 1992                  2.4             22.2       84        90
Dec. 31, 1992                  1.6             23.8       90        95
June 30, 1993                  1.6             25.3       96        99
Dec. 31, 1993                  1.0             26.4      100       100
/a Sample of projects under specific investment loans.
Disbursement Categories amd Amounts
Category                              Amount                 )
(US$ M)
Civil works                              17.3        45 (of expenditures)
Building and materials loan               3.9        45 (of HB disbursements)
Furniture and equipment                   3.5        100 (foreign)
100 (ex-factory local)
70 (other local)
Er.ineering design and supervision        0.5        100 (of UDD expenditures)
Unallocated                               1.2
A special account in an amount of US$3.0 million would be established to
expedite project execution. Disbursements for replenishments would be against
SOEs for contracts valued at US$15,000 or less and HB's disbursements for
building materials loans. Retroactive financing of up to US$500,000 is being
provided for payments made after January 31, 1987 in order to allow for urgent
work for upgrading in Aqaba.



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDA0
NATIONAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Prolect Execution ResDonsibilities
Local                                       PUBLIC AND SEMIPUBLIC
and              MINISTRIES                     AUTHORITIES                PRIVATE SECTOR
UD       ional                                                      JEA                  Deve-  ene-
Key : X Main Agency                             Autho- MOE MOM KYRA  MOLSO NoI mOP Other MB CVDB VTC  WAJ JEPCO NOD CONS  CONT lop-  fici-
0 Others Involved                        rities                                                        IDECO                 ers   aries
Policy/Strategy formulation                                       -           - _  -        - _                      _ -
?LEOQEN£T OF SCHEMES (Infrastructures)
Initiation and site acquisition             x     0                                    0
Preliminary planning                        x     o       0                            0 o
Appraisal                                                                                   x    K
Detailed design, tenders                    x      0                          a                             0     0        x
Confirmation of feasibility                  x                                              o    a
Construction                                                                                                                      x    x     x
Contract supervision                        _                -    -                    -              -
COM4UNITY FACILITIES AMD ANCILLARY_
Design                                      a            0   0          0    0         0              0                    x
Confirmation of feasibility                 x                                               o    o
Contract and tenders                        .x                                n
UPGRADIN  ANO NEW SCHEME NANAGEMENT
Coordination                                 x     o              o           o        o    o         o    o    o
Publicity and promotion                     x
Registration of upgrading beneficiaries    x
Plot allocation/Beneficiary selection       x                                               0                                                0
Sale of new sites                           x                                               o
Preparation of new title                    o                                          x
Relocation assistance                       x      0                                                                                         o
Loans                                                                                       x                                                x
Mortgage administration                                                                     x
Building loans                                                                              x                                                x
Funding TMnagement                          o                                               o    o
Conmunity development                       0                     0     x    x                                        o                      o
Building plan approval                      x      o                                        o                                                o
Building inspection/Loan release            x                     -                              -
MARKET AND COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENTS
Promotion and land sales                                                                                                               x     x
Finance, construction, operation                             -                    _                                  _
SERVICES MAINTENANCE AND RECOVRY
Roads, footpaths. open space                       x
Refuse collection                                  x
Water supply and sewerage                                                                                   x
Schools                                                  x
Clinics                                                      x
Cosmunity centers                                                       x
Emergency centers                                                             x
Electricity                                                                                                      x
Property taxation                                                                      x                                                     x
Housing maintenance                                                                                                              0    0      x
Monitoring evaluation                       x                                     o         o    o
Polcy  _udi-                                     C-            e           -       x  I             I    I _        I   I    - 
UY   CONS - Consultants                        JEPCO -Jrdan Elctricity Co.                                 MO  -Ministry of Health                          ,
CONT - Contractors                       tMRA - Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs           MOLSO - Ministry of Labor. Social
MB   Housing Bank                       MOE   Ministry of Education                                       C.evelopment & Rural Affairs                X
1tD8  Itdustrial Developrntnt Batik      MOP   Ministry of Planning                                VTC - Vocational Training Corp.
IDECO   Irbid District Electricity Co.    NGO   Non Government Organizations                         WAJ - Water Authority of Jordan
JEA   Jordan Electricity Authority       MOI  Ministry of Interior/Dept. of Civil Defense    Others - (Including Ministry of Finance



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a I
o § r§ j  E                                   S  etE                     fltN"£!ia o rtX                                  a 8IXgt§fXt1l8i|{     f   
I ~~~~ § ° ° * j ~~~~~~~~~ t  Rat                                                                                                                a  f     eg,9jtj      St 'i  Sn      j  ,      ,
g    -;i fg$t ft°=8§     ;i5saRio§att"XSR}X0^gifiSttft



HASHENITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
NATIONAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
*0  F1A81C1  ROW  FO  PUILIC SETI1 COS '
FW13 6 OF 6UVEIWNI COSTS
(000 332
1917   193   199   29"    I91   I2   193   294 1"95  TOTAL   tI9               2       19"    2999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   25   2006   2007   i009   2009   2010 1
senra t                               52    531   1323   1271   1151    I5    583         0      0   5771
131 ISoumnt Brat)                    46    356      45    39      621    62      03                   40
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                     --    -   -  -- --  -  ------   --- 
TOTAL. FIWIEIU                           99    37   2263   2169   19fn  247         gm                   9360
WOLICAIEG OF FM
wstmt Cost                           9     17  2268   210    2972   1479    93            0      0   9860
LOW 1PMEIT
IN,
Pr2iKipil odgantCeqpomot             0      0      0       0    105    313    315    315    315   236       315    315    315    315    315    315    315    315    210         0       0      0      0       0      0
Iantrst omkGit Copnot               It     37     62    115    179    229    256    260    245   13"    220    295    170    145    120           95     71     46      22      6      -0     -0     -0    -o    -0
___ -            --- - - - -- --- - - - - - -- ---  - - - - - - - --- -- -- -  -- - - - -- --- --   --- ---   -- ---  -- --- -- --- --  --- -- --- -- ---  -- --- -- --- -- --- --
Total                                 11     37     62    115    291    543    570    575    59   2757    S35    510    45    460    435    410    335    360    232               6     -O     -0      -0    -0    -0
00 
^ 4
coa



NASNUIIT KDWIGC  OF ioDn"
NATIONAL URIA mDBVeLOIH  amDIC
"        am,ig 14%n  m  min m  m                                     n     sM                      0m    oX    O
lKinal Umewow
coo41.                                  0      I"     19      141I  1to"       n         9       S       It  4849
am ft"ats                                      212332514   4a    9                                           nos2
601p69 solve                            S      0    214    got8  362          I"        0        0          826
blow# Peim.o                          485    do       05    IN        819      84    66          S      0   2312
m~ftssO g..                           *    o  X6  Wt lm   aus  WS   o   * mi
cmowtaeILod  sale                           0       3     is    873    I"        8to       29       0       0    16
IBM5 USUJt 391319                          41S    949   4024    09M     860   1235          825       0       0  2352
831534   CUlts                            4357   5318   WU     334         8366    240        0       0       4  813?
NS 41166186 1'1651188t8                   -396)  -442           I S W1651    0 159  8       633       0       0   409
F8#IfM 31186 lPetEie.. $-i
ml 1 2 Pvoett fre  88436 
top  Itn  60uwe  Ps*                      4351   sail   24u     366    368          84        0        S       0  1132
1,t~oott so Uswsq Pel too                 -881   -35      .5       161    -595   -866    852    in5           &  -852
too. ilovaiw.  to Ibuwe  Sp                   9       9       S  -356   -314    -3W     -314    -356          0 -816?
6.0.8 lawminm     tafl 64                  304    648     SW4     540     230   .2m5   -216    -si            0   3471
Cos. svplast464t.111-1                      31*    914   0319   963t2 882     9310t  4681   3411   3478  31411   3471   3418   5418    3011   3478   3471   3411   3.478   3471   34118                     X   3471   367  17    3678    3081
&8Ur"    a   3600618t                  9      37     842    434      681    1M       43        S     932   474       066   1046   88l8   8877  8IM          1323   8402         f 143  573   8110   1)76   8976    MO8   72540          7-
Cuwiatieo LIM   lalerest                      9      64    IN       64?   1323   28*6   2936    WS1  674           1474    5734   676     764   9912  80389  88642  8I04   86530  16866  IM1978546  21422  27-118  2519  277i4
Cme. %wVidw60ttl td  (I31 tat               5851    904    M 4 16 80324  8304   81414,  9)         729    6288   9286   9257  80254  88365  12342  83-M199           1183  16585  ISM6   1957   21241  23086  N4M9   2648   2309   38.4
1831  Pe8.c  On aftr. 38393                 313    960   41567  10324  I304    31383   84668  1558  86473  8647S  17462  18S0   89620  20797  32045 236   24770  2625   77913  2950   38271  358147  351836  3124  WM7
1883    a8oreon att.8883         34    923   4475   999   8238  83049  8383    14648  15548  85548  16473  87462  8859  19620  20797  22045  23W6   24770  26256  27638  29508   3t17t  33847  35836  3?244
ID.
lbe4ore ad6ing yw s tattwest)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



HASUDITS KNDOWM or OWA
NATIONAL URND                                         PROJCT
9w   no   M9  19"  nn  nW   29   90  25 17   26s  27  In   29  2W   ml  2?   IN   20    W    0   28   26 2w                                                                         9  2120
otollIl am...........                                            - - -    - --- ------- ----------       ---- -  --------- *--- v----------- o--- ----- ------------ ----*-------------------------------------------- -----------------
.....
eIWl lULls
Leam  ftlUsIn   #      2t              Ss    416    10    too        9O    1         47       0       0   4*60
LiIw  bouts                            46 140   3445   530           Ms6       0       0       0      0  lam2
8gPeyu,. C0Wn,teusR LOam                0       0       0   SW4    351    3545   3535   SIJ           8  lUll
-tolel CtMtIA  WIt                 W59   202      55    923        73   429S   40       31O        0  35453
56811t Wtms
flo l       flortia    np ta, s          0      IS    ISO    443   11        3      1 1319   1349 1938   230 1   1         13     130    1349 1349   5319   2349 133S    1192    744    29                33      0       0 *     4
laterned on Cstrwtsu   Lem            f1i    31      S9      52    395              -132   -49        *    55
4i42t4q too _bawmts                     e    0    4   70  214  319 PS  375n                                IM 1 33 $3                sn  Ps 5S3 1                 StS 373 0305   I5V  54    0 e                                   0
W-tot.t             U1141 lLS     111    374    722   1233    lttl   IM    1572   122   1U2   10495   1724             7 I72   72      24 i   724   5 I724U   7     1'9   1      1    41      8               0       0      0
t2l9   2I656                              70t  14CO            1115    G2       073      10   485   172   44_         1      172I  1272    1724   2726   2724   1724   2709   211   20                               0       0       0
£401164 WIOLS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                t
I= 866SP'#toom114awoot                  0   Cl   5   0 1233Mt  03493920OM   30 9369 369 34Mt349349349   20    0   (   0   a   0   0                                                                                                                      7
tm,ct t  (OM                         43S'   53t   24    SW          29116    24        0       0      0   ?2182
fSrtqw  Lins                            0      M3   2142   5241   32?    94            0       0          11202 
4i414gq tam                             0      35    SU    1212       M      464               e      0   3112
Su-tstel  CAITAL 31t716           4351   544    5230  I00    54    2             34      369    39  33741    369   9So          3S9    349    39    369    So          49    24         0      0       0       0      0       0
MNT Olin=
ltnr to  111   * o            tloeq    12      31      4      13   2134              244    2       216   IM29     258    229    20        Il    141    112        63  3S6        24               0      a       0       0       0
t2twnt an t        8 b8sm               9      37    162    434    un        783    330    US       932   4748 11         141   1111   IM7    24    12    1482   1MS   2575   16110 2770   16   1`124                  2106   2
C    St a  oPn f,44t ItO SS.2I    101    339473  447 2 11263                          63       0      0  214          0      0       0       0       0      0       0      0       0       0       0       0     29    144    24
wlqo0 Leam                              0             10      44     44      47 U             7     47    39        47     47      4t      47             4        7      4 U3           27 n             0 o       o      
9s;lotrq l2o%                           0               0       0       C      0       a t            0. f            A t                                   C t.  ;.  A     A       a      4               A C    A       0 O
*    41111llSt"10111 t55.7l                 0     tS    1SS      36    222       S        4       0      0       0       0       0      0       0       0      0       o       D       0      0       0       0       0      2    St,
46-tal f"       tCI 6t a           129    4 S 4       3lP 0    864              121.2 1392   222    1218   1227    9I4   ISI2  123  17S   1615   145I  1232   IS52   240    114    2440   277S   107S   2018   221    133.
01t   f2716tt5                          45   49   599 13 2t            734O S I0 3019 lef3        162       4323    2413   1113   2747   28    2921 1171   1922   2I95   2902   lW                1717    lIt7S   702t   2252   330
lotslSt icirC                           -025  -4479   -701   -235    92    3454   402    327            7e   219        40      10    -23    -bl   -102   -148   -299   -244   -33    -44   -234   -1737  -2919  -2252  -30
UXLISW    M6lia95 n-013  -9693  -939   -926  -970   -5451  -I23    1422   2490   140   I273                                    51    -13    -8    -243   -258   -34   -4           -40S   -964  -2012  -3233  -7S    -42P7  -551
#nftflfl. fl.f.#...-.flflsmf
Cost  tf HI Fundt :   5.50twtqt@et swap  paid o* d,Milt  at tim  Of el  sWsl VS71
CB  bo    t ad  yet inclu,dd



- 64 -
ANNEX 8
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN                                                   Page 5 of 11
NATIONAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HOUSINS BANK OF JORDON: PBlance Sheet 1979 - 1992
million JO
__............ .... _...,__.._.......... .... ........ W_.._. _............... .-__.. __.. ...  _............ ..................
- -       ------- ktual -   -- -- - - 
1178   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1905   1996   1987   19R8   1969   1990   1991   192
A  Cash on hnd & in banks           10.i   16.6   36.7   59.1   36.3   39.2   37.2   45.5   68.8   80.2   89.7   9.2  108.7  118.3  128.0
8  Treuwy  ills nd Dbentures   4.1    6.2    1.6    2.0    5.8   16.0   11.3    0.9   11.7   12.6   14.1   15.6   17.6   19.6   21.6
C  Total Loans and Facilitin        61.0   81.5  103.0  123.9  155.0  198.0  247.2  278.2  294.9  311.4  328.0  344.1  341.4  374.0  382.0
D  Othor Assets                      0.4    0.4    1.3    1.8    4.0    5.2    5.1    4.3    4.1    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
E  Equity Invustwnts                 1.5    2.3    3.6    5.4   10.0   13.0   15.6   14.3   17.5   19.3   19.7   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0
F  Real Estate lnvestmets            2.0    3.4    5.8    8.3   13.6   17.1   21.2   23.1   24.7   24.7   24.7   24.7   24.7   24.7   24.7
6  Fixed Assets IHet of              1.0    1.4    1.7    2.4    3.2    4.1    5.1    6.2    3.6    4.0    4.5    5.0    5.5    6.0    6.7
Oepreciation)
H  TOTAL ASSEtS                     86.5  111.9  153.7  202.9  228.7  292.6  342.7  382.5  421.3  457.2  485.7  513.6  542.9  567.6  5S.0
I  Current Accounts                  9.7   16.3   16.8   19.8   23.1   32.8   34.1   37.3   37.9   42.4   47.5   51.7   56.7   61.7   6.7
J  Savias, Notice & Fixed           51.9   69.9  104.8  141.0  145.4  179.0  212.1  227.8  257.3  274.8  293.5  311.3  329.4  343.5  352.1
Deposit Accounts##
K  Other Current Liabilities         1.5    2.3    4.5    9.4    8.7   10.1   10.5   17.6   24.6   24.9   25.1   25.1   25.6   25.6   25.6
L  Advances froa  Central Sink       9.6    7.2   10.0   14.1   29.7   48.1   62.1   74.0   79.8   95.3   87.6   91.2   94.4   97.4  100.4
----  _--   -*- ----   ---   -^ -     --  ----  -----  -----  --- -   -----  -----  ---- -       -
f  TOTAL LlABIL171ES                71.7   95.7  136.1  183.3  206.9  270.0  319.8  356.7  3"9.6  427.4  453.7  479.3  506.1  528.2  545.4
N  Subscribed and Paid-up           12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0
Capital
0  Statutory and Special             2.8    4.1    5.6    7.6    9.9   10.6   11.9   13.8   15.7   17.8   20.0   22.4   24.7   27.5   30.7
ewrves
P  TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS EQUIT         14.8   16.1   17.6   19.6   21.9   22.6   23.9   25.8   27.7   29.8   32.0   34.4   36.7   39.5   42.7
N  TOTAL LIABILITIES &              86.5  111.8  153.7  202.9  228.7  292.6  342.7  382.5  427.3  457.2  485.7  513.6  542.9  567.6  588.0
SHAREHOLOERS EgUITY
I lncluding IORD  6ov't Loans
leucluding grant eleNttsl
Son totals do not add due to rounding



- 65 -                                                     AN1NEX  8
Page  6 of 11
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
NATIONAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HOUSIN6 BANK OF JORDON: Statoewt of Incoue and Expense 1979 - 1992
Million JD
I                          nc-----tual ------ - ----------- t-------Proected-------------------------
1979   19MO   1981  1992   1983   194   195   19     1987   1988  196    1990   1991   192
9  Interest fru, Loans             5.9   5.0   10.0  12.2  15.4  19.4  22.9  24.4  25.7  27.1  28.3  29.6  30.8  31.7
and Credit Faciliti"
R  Interet froo Deposits           1.1    2.2   5.8    5.5   3.1    3.0   2.4    3.2   4.3   4.8   5.3   5.9    6.3    6.8
in anks
S    cncome fr2 Investnts          0.3    0.3   0.3    0.4   1.1   1.5    3.5    3.6    3.9   4.0    4.2    4.3   4.4    4.5
T Other Tnco.e                     0.2   0.2   0.9    1.2   0.8    1.8   0.7    1.0   1.1   1.3   1.4    2.0   2.5    3.1
u TOTAL INCOME                     7.5  10.7  17.0  19.3  20.4  25.7  29.5  32.2  35.0  37.2  39.4  41.1  44.0  46.1
V  Interest Paid                   3.9    5.6    9.5   11.1   12.6  16.0   18.1  19.7  22.2  23.4  25.0  26.4  27.7  28.9
' Salaries and Benefits            0.8    1.2    1.9   2.9    3.6   3.9    4.4    4.9   5.3    5.5   5.7    6.0   6.3    6.6
I Seneral and Adainistrative       0.4    0.7   1.6    1.2   1.4    2.3   2.1   2.5    2.6    2.7   3.0   3.3   3.3    3.3
Expense
Y  Depreciation and                0.1    0.2   0.6    0.4   0.4    0.7    0.4    0.7   0.7    0.8   0.9   1.0   1.0    1.0
Asortization
7 Other Expenses                   0.3   0.3    0.3   0.4   0.0   0.4    1.5    1.6   1.2   1.4   1.6   1.8   2.0    2.2
(A TOTAL EXPENSES                  5.4    8.0   13.9  16.0  19.2  23.3  26.7  29.4  32.0  34.0  36.1  33.S  40.4  42.0
BB NET INCOME                      2.1    2.7   3.1    3.3    2.2    2.4   2.8    2.8   3.0   3.1    3.2   3.3   3.7   4.1
DIVIDENDS PAID                     0.8   1.2    1.1   1.1    1.4    1.1   0.9   0.9   0.9    0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9
RETAINED EARMINBS                  1.3    1.5   2.0   2.2   0.8    1.3    1.9    1.9   2.1    2.2   2.3    2.4   2.8   3.2
Some totals do not add due to roundinq



-  66  -                                                        -ANNAj  7
rose 7 of 11
IIASKEMITE KINGDOM1 0 JORDAN
NATIONAL URBAMM DEVFOMNT PROJECT
HOUilS6 aU  OF JUON
Statoeent of  Chaoq  in Fiasecial Positoc  197    12
tillio Jo
----- . ...... ................................... __._., ....................... ....................... ......  . ........ ............................. t.........._
------------------ - ----------------0---o-------¢-- ---------kt--------------------- - ------- --oJ CtQJ                          .
1979   3930   1931   1982   1"3   1"4   35   19            196?    1    96   9   1990   1991       2
- -- ------- - -------- .. -.. --------  ---  ------------                                  . ........... ...... ............ . .. ......... . ...................................... -. -,,-----.  _.....
38  Net Incoce                       2.1    2.7    3.1    3.3    2.2    2.4    2.8    2.9    3.0    3.1    3.2    3.3    3.7    4.1
Increase (Dcrease)
in Liabilitie
D'  Current Accunts                  6.6    0.5    2.0    4.3    9.7    1.3    3.2    0.6    4.5    5.1    4.2    5.0    5.0    5.0
5E  Savinqg, Notice b Fisl          18.0   34.9  3U2    4.4   33.4   3.1   15.?   29.5   17.5   13.7   17.8   19.2   14.0    9.2
Deposit kcounts
FF  Other Current Liabilities        0.9    2.2    4.9   -0.7    1.4    0.4    7.1    7.0    0.3    0.2    0.0    0.5    0.0    0.0
66  Advancs from Cttral Snk    -1.4    2.8    4.1   15.6   19.4   14.0   11.9    5.6    5.S    2.3    3.6    3.2    3.0    3.0
It TOTAL FUNDS PROVIDED             26.1   43.1   50.3   26.9   45.3   51.2   40.7   45.7   30.    29.4   20.9   30.1   25.7   21.3
Increase (Decrease) in Asets
3J  Cash on Hand and in Banks        0.1   20.1   22.4  -22.9    2.9   -2.0    3.3   23.3   11.4    9.5    9.5    9.5    9.6    9.'
KK  Treasury Iiils & Debeture        2.1   -4.6    0.4    3.9   10.2   -4.    -2.4    2.8    0.9    1.5    1.5   o.0    2.v    2.0
LL Loans and Facilitie              20.5   21.5   20.9   31.9   42.2    9.2   31.0   16.7   16.5   16.4   16.1   17.2   127 L
Nil Other Assets                     0.0    0.9    0.3    2.2    1.2   -0.1   -0.8    1.8   -1.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
NO  Equity Invstmt                   0.0    1.3    1.9    4.6    3.0    2.6    0.?    1.2    1.3    0.4    0.3    0.0    0.0    0.0
00  Real Estate Innvtmt              1.4    2.4    2.5    5.3    3.5    4.1 1.9    1.b    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
PP  Fixed Assets (Not of             0.4    0.3    0.7    0.0    0.9    1.0    1.1   -2.6    0.4    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.7
Depreattion)
Of Dividends Paid                    0.3    1.2    1.1    1.1    1.4    1.1    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9
RP  TOTAL FUNDS APPLIED             26.1   43.1   50.3   26.9   65.3   51.2   40.7   45.7   30.0   29.4   28.8   30.1   25.7   21.3
TT  SURPLUS (DEFICIT)                0.0  -3.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   -0.0    0.0   -0.0    0.0    0.0
..   t      ..  .. .. .. .......... ................................................................................................
Sose totals do not add due to roundinq



-67 -                                                   ANIM  8
~FeTf I.1
MLASISETT LKINMDOM OF Loom*
NATIONAL URBAN VEOMETPNJC
Note     D      JOF lOhS Perfvmor     leE) ctve 1979   19
IP$rcqmtape)
…-_-_----*-e-------------------- ----...e.- .e.....     .t. e.... .......... . ....e.....
1q79   19O3  191   IM2   196    194   193   1i    196      1W          1919   1"90  l991   192
--.---------------.---.---.-.                                               ... .     .          ......... .... ...... .  .  _...................  .*..  .....  .... ..  ..... ..... 
Profitabillty
21 Return on Loans -- 9/Avg Co    0.3    8.7    i.e    8.7    8.7    6.7    6.?    8.5   6.5    8.5    6.4   8.4    6.4    8.4
22 Return on Assets -- U/Avg N    7.4    6.1    9.5    8.9    1.3    6.    'S.I  L00    1.9    7.9    7.9    1.9    7.9    6.0
23 Net Return on Assets --        2.1   2.0    1.7    1.5    0.       0.6    0.6    0.7    0.1    0.7   0.4    0.6    0.7    0.7
el/Avg N
24 Return on Equity -- 83/AvgP   13.4   16.0  16.7   15.9   9.9   10.3   11.3  10.5   10.4    0.2   9.6    9.2    9.4    9.9
25 Ovrall Interest Expnse Rat   3.6    4.2    5.3    5.1    4.0    5.0    5.0    4.9    50    5.0    .0    5.0    5.0    5.0
-- V/Avg H
26 Avg Cast of Liabilities        4.5    4.8    5.9    5.7    5.3    5       5.4    5.2    5.       4    5.4    5.       .4    5.4
-. V/Avg N
27 Overhead Expense Rate          1.5    1.7   2.1    2.1    2.0    2.1    2.2    2.2   2.1    2.0   2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1
-- V+l+zI/AvJ N
28 Not Spread -- 122-I2527))      2.2    2.2    2.1    1.7    1.0    1.0    0.9    .9   0.        0.9    0.    0.3    0.3    0.9
Leverage and Liquidity
29 Long Term Debt/Equity         44.7  54.6   71.9  134.2  212.6  259.6  216.0  236.1 294.4  273.4  20.4  257.1  244.6  235.4
-- (L/P) t
210 Capital/ksiets -- PIH         14.4   11.5    9.7    9.5    7.7    7.0    4.7    4.5   6.5    6.4    4.?    4.6    1.0    7.3
211 Curr. AssetslCurr. Liub.      25.6   30.4   34.1   23.6  24.9  18.9   19.2  25.2  27.1   23.4  29.4  30.7  32.0   33.4
-- (A+8)/(I+J3)
212 Loans/Cre Deposits -- CIJ   11.  93.3   V.9  107.2  110.4  116.5  122.1  114.6  113.3  111.6  110.4  109.7  103.9  106.3
213 Cash/Deposits -- A/J          23.7   35.0   41.9  25.0   21.9  17.5  20.0   24.?  29.2   36.6  31.9  $3.0  34.4   34.3
Brouth (percent per annue)
'i4 browtn in Net intcoue i6)            28.4   14.6    0.S  *33.    4.1   16.1    '.'    0.5    5.3    3.3    0.4   13.i  1to.5
215 6routh in Loans ()                  13.;   24.4  20.3  25.t  27.1   24.6   12.5    4.0    5.6   5.3    4.9   5.; i          .5
216 Gromth in DePosIts iJI               34.7   4.9   34.5    3.1  23.1  16.5    7.4  12.9    6.1    o.i    o.1    5.6    4.3
Asset Qual i ty
2117 Return on lnvestment                 3.1   2.6    3.0    4.9    4.0   7.4    7.5    7.4    7.2    7.3    7.2    7.2    7.1
-- 5/Avg to+E+fl
_----------                                                                                  .__.. 4 ._ ......  _..........
* - OAverege' is the average of values 12 the currft Yew an  ptleiOu  V $.
ft- Long Term Debt iotludes Tlult I 6owt Loans to line J



-68-                                                  ANNEX 8
Page 9 of 11
NAIOIIAL VWAG DERO OECT
&t                         l_umio for
Actalltoected PE2oarau EwuLtu os
UD?1 ed UD?2 Lod the National Pvoroarn1ThP3)
ExpuditurelFinacinq                1964      19       196       9"?       l8      18        19MO      1991      1992      M91   Total
_--___ _-._-.--*.-.....ee ..ee...n ......  e...e..n.e.e..e.                     ..  ._..........         . *-. .  ....  .......
at bRcowiablo Fra   Wations
Lod                            4,24?    1,239    2,204        33    1,219         0        0                                    8,942
Civil larks                    3,543    2,142    1,434    1,85       5,164    4,255      411                                   19,102
Deig  4 Spw visios               339       45       120      In        117       77        0                                      826
Projoect  aagat                  382      370       315      252       150      150      102                                    1,721
tIc                              576      425      44        419      313       380      5t0                                    3,154
UW3                                0        0         0        0       444    4,748   11,943      7,477     2,04         164   27,044
.. .      _...... _. ...... __.... ___..........  - -. - -. ------ -._ ..._ .....  ._.  .....  ... ._
Total bcover. Frog Operations   9,109    4,241    4,542    2,45    1,449    9,430   13,206           1,477     2,040        144   40,811
.. . _._ ...... _ _.  .    . ...  ......  _.....___..._ ._... .._.__...__..._____............_
b  Isustollt ON ta4If of 6   ragnt A cies
Luad                            S5        282       549        8       303        0        0                                    1,702
Civil MWtks                      461       n00    1,094    2.116    3,35b    1,373       117                                    9,319
Offite                            30       133        0        0         0        0        0                                      143
Equipot                            0        0         0      lI    1,136        49         0                                    1.955
koiu. & SuWrvisiso               126       31        33       95        62       45        0                                      392
Project  anaput                  241       159      146      144       110      110       44                                     "9
Techimcal Aeslstant              422        40       29      149        70       70       34                                      854
600d                               0       66       410      121         0        0        0                                      597
training                           0        0         0       32        11        0        0                                       43
UWPs                               0         0        0    1,334    1,106    1,692    3,9S5       1.519        SO         0      160
Total Rcovwr. Fro  Agencies       1,936    1.531    2,263    4,209    4,140    4,139    4,174        1,519        50         0    5.,883
Sub-total (aobi                  10,947    5,772    4,805    6,674   13,401   13,749   17.460        9,196     2,098        i44  86,o94
c: Total Bneficiary Loans             9       118      204    1,117    1,000    1,000    1,000                                     4.450
dt Total (ab.c0                  10,956    5,690    7,011    7,9"1   14,409   14,769   18.460    9.1946        2.09         164    1,144
It  Cumulative Total             10,954   14,646  23,851   31,484   46,457   41,226   79.o66    86,692    90,980    91,144   l,144
Fi nancing
Oros%  overnet Coetrib.        4,414   t1,2       1,414    1,191    2,500    2,500       978                                   14,557
11 Loan                        2,940    2,947       785    2,754    5,500    3.500       327                                  '9,7S
OiD Loan                       1,766    1,298    3,470    1,598    2,500    2,000    1,199                                    14,020
M103 (ISIIRO)                      0        0         0        0       67    3,836    9,441      5,861      1.535        74   21.154
6ev.  rantil                    544      310    1.l1l        45        0         0        0                                    ZI0NC
UW503 (vt./IBRD)                   0        0         0    1,334    1.106    1,892    3,955       1,519        5O         0    ;,6o0
Others                             0      317      949       797    2,535       109      159                                    4,86o
UDP3 iOther)                       0        0         0        0        79      932    2.502      1,796       513        90    5,;1
*- ------- -*--------- - -------*----*--------------*---------------------- - -----.--.-----.-------- ---------. -- .-------------.--
di Total Financing                .,646    6,149   86121    7,713   14,40    14,769   18,440         9,194    2LOB6        164   91,144
Balance                          t1,90Q)      258    1,110     (27,)        0        0        0          0         0
Cumulative Balance               41,09)    ;832)       278        0         0        0        o          0         0                   0



- 69 -
ANNEX 8
Page 10 of 11
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JURDAN
NATIONAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
UDD: BALANCE SHEETS 1983-86
(JD)
1983        1984         1985        1986
-Actual…---------
ASSETS
Cash in Bank                   140,083       95,182      218,171       85,817
Advances to contractors      1,599,981   1,020,802       329,224      240,751
LOC's/accounts receivable           953       3,256            0      191,307
Prepaid expenses                    132         128       34,204      323,340
1,741,149   1,119,368      581,599      751,215
Due from land sales                   0           0            0      105,831
Work in progress             6,833,049  10,385,049  12,336,659  10,108,252
Fixed Assets
Vehicles & Furniture             67,322      75,531      120,143      149,147
Less Accumulated depreciation  19,252        27,984       39,717       55,089
48,070      47,547       80,426       94,058
TOTAL ASSETS                     8,622,268  11,551,964  12,998,684  11,059,356
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Retentions payable              62,261      346,297      478,392      253,967
Deposits                       112,135      224,509      341,473      348,516
Grants in trust                       0           0       62,809       27,646
Accounts payable               475,878      545,723      152,147      145,522
650,274   1,116,529   1,034,821       775,651
Long-term loans
World Bank                                1,976,379   3,374,483  11,731,542
Jordan Housing Bank                       3,298,406   6,828,816   3,244,164
3,513,380   5,274,785  10,202,299  14,975,706
0           0   4,965,175  10,172,311
3,513,380   5,274,785   5,238,124   4,803,395
Government Contribution          4,458,614   5,160,650   6,725,739   5,480,310
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY       8,622,268  11,551,964  12,998,684  11,059,356
Source: UDD audited accounts 1983-85 - Unaudited accounts, 1986.



- 7fl -
ANNEX 8
Page 11 of 11
HASHEMIME KINGDOM OF JORDAN
NATIONAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
UDD: CHANGES IN FINANCIAL POStTION 1984-86
(JD)
CHANGES IN FINANCIAL POSITION               1984         1985          1986
SOURCES
Depreciation                             8,732       11,733       15S,372
Increase (decrease) in liabilities
Payables and retentions                353,881     (261,481)   (231,050)
Deposits                               112,374      116,964        7,043
Long-term liabilities                1,761,405    4,928,514   4,772,407
Grants to be disbursed                       0       62,809      (35,163)
Government contribution (net
of assets turned over)               702,036    1,565,089  (1,2459429)
Total Sources                            2.938x428    6,423.628   3,283.180
APPLICATIONS
Increase (decrease) in assets
Fixed assets                             8,209       44,612       29,004
Work in progress                     3,552,000    1,951,610  (2,228,407)
Receivables & advances                (576,880)    (660,758)    407,301
Cash                                   (44,901)     122,989    (132,354)
Repayments                                   0    4,965,175   5,207,136
Total Applications                       2.938.428    6,4232628   3.283.180
Source: Derived from UDD accounts.



- 71 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 13
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
NATIONAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INCOMES AND AFFORDABILITY
1. Income Levels: For upgrading sites, affordability is based on income
figures found by surveying existing households within the site. Income data
from surveys tend to underestimate actual income; remittance income, income
from informal sources, and income of family members who may work only from
time to time, are often under reported. This phenomenon has been noted in
Jordan, both at a national level, and in the UDPI project sites, where potential
beneficiaries give somewhat higher figures when they apply for housing loans
than when are initially surveyed. Estimated incomes for upgrading areas will
therefore be on the conservative side. This is advantageous since it is
particularly important that the upgraded infrastructural services and title
benefits are affordable to householders who already occupy che plots.
2.       For sites and services schemes, the target beneficiary group cotsists
of families in the 10th to 40th percentiles of the household income
distribution. The household income figures currently being used by the
Housing Strategy Group (HSG) are:
MONTHLY HOUSEHOLD INCOMES
(JD)
Urban Areas                Greater Amman               Other
10th percentile                   137                    103
20th percentile                   165                    137
30th percentile                   206                    165
40th percentile                   233                    186
3.       These figures are based on HSG's 1986 survey in Amman, other urban
areas, and rural areas and reflect (a) an adjustment for underreporting based
on comparison with private consumption expenditures data, and (b) projection
to mid-1987. The resulting figures are consistent with the findings of the
1980 Family Expenditures Survey. '
1/ The bias inherent in using expenditures-based figures to estimate income,
i.e., underestimation of the income of the richer households due to the
exclusion of savings, is not a problem here since findings are restricted
to the lower 40 percent of the income distribution. Nevertheless, the
adjustment (based on expenditures) was substantial (on the order of 33
percent), and the sensitivity of affordability decisions to this
assumption should be borne in mind.



- 72 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 13
4. Poverty Estimates: The Bank-defined poverty level for urban households is
JD 127 per month for 1985."' About 16 percent of households in urban areas
excluding Amman would fall below this level. Within Amman, income levels are
higher, and less than 10 percent of households would be classified in the
poverty group. About a third of the households to be included in the Aqaba
subprojects have reported (nonadjusted) incomes that would place them below
the poverty level.
5. Methodology: The affordability analysis will be done on a site-by-site
basis. Only the recoverable costs according are included in the plot price
for beneficiary plots. Table 1 shows results of the calculation for the Aqaba
subprojects:
(a) In Part I of the table, the total base costs plus physical
contingencies for each subproject (and the total for the Aqaba program
as appraised for the project) are shown, and are used as a basis for
the rest of the calculations.
(b) Part II shows calculations for recovery through land sales; costs of
land, site preparation and on-site infrastructure (except for the lOm +
roads) are covered in proportion to land use, whereas those of project
administration (broadly defined to include design, supervision,
management, and interest during construction) are recovered in
proportion to estimated civil works costs. The resulting costs per
square meter are shown as item 31, and apply to all land sales (the
prices of plots to be sold on the market assume a mark-up from this
cost). The costs associated with on-plot housing construction by the
UDD, are calculated in Part III.
6.       Table 2 calculates the costs associated with various illustrative plot
sizes (col. 1), and with a UDD-built core unit on the plot (col. 2), using the
cost per square mete- of serviced land and core unit costs from table 1. The
averages for Aqaba as a whole (col. 8) are used in table 3 to illustrate
affordability for the various options to be provided. The amount of money to be
paid to the existing residents (for UDD purchase of the land) is shown in the
fourth column of this table ' which also includes an estimate
1/ The calculation is based on an estimated GNP figure of JD 1856 million,
population of 2,693,700, and an average household size of 7.1 persons.
The poverty threshold is calculated as 31.25 percent of GNP per capita (25
percent higher than the 25 percent of GNP used for rural households).
2/ The amount of JD 1.0 per square meter is used in order to err on the
conservative side from the affordability point of view.



- 73 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 13
of the average amount of com?ensation to be paid for both land and buildings,
in the case of a relocation.-" Although the exact means of paying
compensation to eligible residents has yet to be defined, the compensation
paid will reflect an increase in household resources available for housing,
and is therefore treated as a reduction in the plot sales price in this
illustrative calculation. The estimated amount of subsidy available from the
sale of plots at market prices would normally be deducted from the plot sale
price at this point.-" This is done by subtracting the serviced plot costs
for each market plot size (as in (b] above) from the estimated market sale
price of each plot, and finding the total for each site. The total subsidy
for each site would then be distributed among the various beneficiary plot
options, preferably in inverse proportion to the total estimated cost of the
plot. In any case, the distribution should not be biased towards the plots
with UDD-built housing, since these plots will already cost more than those
for which a building loan is assumed. By varying (a) the proportion of plots
in the three size groups, (b) the amount of UDD-built provision on the various
plot types, and (c) the subsidy allocation, a range of sale prices can be
determined which will be affordable to a range of household income levels.
7.       Affordability:  Affordability (i.e., the level of household income
served) is calculated by applying the mortgage financing assumptions to the
sale prices. The deposit, estimated at 10 percent, is assumed to be paid in
cash, up front. A 5 percent default premium is applied to the sale price and
this is the amount, after deducting the deposit, and adding a building loan if
required, to be financed over 15 years, at 8.5 percent annual interest. The
estimated monthly payments thus derived, after adjustment for estimated
monthly utility payments, are assumed to represent not more than 33 percent of
income. The implied minimum income levels for affordability are therefore
found by dividing these total monthly expenses by 0.33. The last step is to
verify that the "affordable" income levels represent a wide range of household
incomes avoiding, for example, a "bunching" of income levels in the upper
part of this range. The last column of table 3 shows that in in the Aqaba
subproject sites, the costs of the upgraded plot, with no additional
construction assumed, is affordable to virtually all households.
1/ For the purpose of this estimation, in the case of a relocation,
households are assumed to purchase a plot of the same size as the one they
are giving up; and the compensation for a building demolished is
calculated on the basis of 20 JD per/m2 for a building covering 55
percent of the plot.
2/ This is not done in the tables shown here. The amount of UDD subsidy
available in the Aqaba subprojects is not expected to be large.



- 74 -
ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 13
8.       Although the detailed cost estimates are not yet available for the
proposed sites and services subproject, affordability calculations for Irbid
I, using preliminary cost estimates are given in table 4. They show the
sensitivity of unit costs to land acquisition costs. Table 5 then
demonstrates the morsthly household incomes required for the various plot
options, under both land acquisition costs assum¶tions. The scheme appears to
be affordable to the 10th to 40th income groups. -
9.       The experience of UDP2 has been that the affordability analysis
carried out at the preliminary design stage was found to be fairly consistent
with the reanalysis at detailed design stage. However, this reanalysis is
important, and, in fact, the calculations need to be repeated, not only at
detailed design stage, but also afterwards during project implementation.
Adjustments are to be made, if necessary, in the assumptions regarding
distribution of plot sizes, on-plot construction, and subsidy allocation, and
the desired plot options.
1/ It should be noted, however, that the income profile used here is the one
described earlier (para 3), and that under the higher land acquisition price,
the addition of a core unit on the larger plots may make these plots
unaffordable.



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
NATIONAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table I.    FO     ILtTY O    lA   SU-SECTSS   ClculAtim  of unit cuts
I.  TOTAL COSTS   (base costs    1 p1v. coRt.l                          Salabaddin Old Tou  South    Sllalab North          Al "Au              Vhazan           TOTAL
it obvs.cout.        -                       - -----* - - -                                     ------         -----
It!      LAW   & ctOmusatIoN                                               0              6S               so                1Y0            3W                13,             g40
(2)      Survens ad site prou.                                            10              it                6                 13              it               4i              89
(3)      Off-site uoris                                                   15              22               40                 72              23               56             218
W4)      On-site borks                                                    15             225              277              414               'Il               i)            1957
i5!      Desipo                                                           1 16                            17                 2                1               2'              6!
(6)      Supervision                                                      !2              10               17                 26                               2?              07
I?i      Project anaaeni                                                   I              Si               5?                102             7r               109             396
19J      Adviso   services                                                10              10               20                 23              1                22              9'
(9)      Interest duriso construction                                                     70               St                102              44              155             422
Wi1l    Core units                                                        10             262               14                ZOb               0              .50            1032
(11)     Cosmercial buildinus                                             IG.              0                0                  0               C                0               0
12)      Baild. & sat. loans                                                             172              391               501              330              110            1504
(131     Community facilities                                              10              0              650                650               0               '1            1351
(141        Total Cost                                                                  910.            1620               2380            1219             1950            9078
01 >0



- 76 -
RASIEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN                                                            Page 6 of 13
NATIONAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table I continued:
eeut 1.L 
=Sdahadoin Old Toim South    Shalalal Notth Al Hadvah            Xha?an            tOTAL
*  tlle _**4||S &Weslt to }}0W   go.l                               .......... ..............    .......--- .         --_ ...   .....  -----
l Ite   I) 4(21 i )               7'                                                        94               165            441             M8              9
(14)   Iaref.tsut
ut. 141                                                                    22              277               494            311                            :03
U1f 1a s      t ca t   ftc  ites  4))                                     2               23                43              23              31
(is      tii to swtt.
lsm&      . cm    W %         two.                                                                                                       792.
.(to        )- gm                                             U1                                         424             40      U         2            2723
119      tOb'Xt, t.ffUlZiiWIiS                 t
-(105119)) 2V-                                                                        323               513             441             442      -    Z342
3. '1Adml.Cu, fpu.t* 'WIN u i4ttes
(21)     Nop. ujanisida  v.1st saqaIt.
at .)wvi auVicos.
litas  ti)l       is1) 1                                               03            1S2                                104             16              t
122)     Prawtias Of civil amhi c1ts fvts
t.  iaftorw           (Iros . wttim)                                    0.40           0.24              0.31            0.65            0.44            0.3
ti. iafratrnctt  lua-ratuw. MUM)                                        0.09           0.04              0.06            0.15            0.06
Wii.  ars  wnits                                                        0.51           0.01              0.15            0.00             .42 
xv. cauWcail budlfipS                                                  d0.00           0.00              0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00
IV. cuatv   bal4iap                                                     0.00           0.66              0.44            300 0.^.
123)     'ms.'.cwt   fw i'fnas      actrtr.
I 1211)   (22) i.)                                                     3               2                 3               N               94
(24)     latrast gnag cotw. I(s-ite aork.cre
sts, ad cow  oldU)  Itus (9) 1                                          ?0             5                102              44             !               422
(21)     Prmvtia   f ttI Ears
x. Os-att urts                                                         0.46            0.95               0.7            1.000. 33                        .4
xx. ctre sits                                                           0.54           0.05               0.3            0.00           4.45              :.'4
xxx. ca al tildimp                                                                0                0                        1               !
(24)     I.St.C. for  n-suts amts
!124)0   125) i.                                                       32              49                01              4               i:
(2t)     Total 'dAniatrgt,vs  casts.
I  (231  +  (24)1                                                      4f              77               123             132             :71            *4
(211     TOTAL (A NW 3) mC. ima           lM   t   SWMR' ICO UlmD
1  120)  4  (21)                                                      20              400              U4               7n              912           :
I=              an               Om              5                              ass
29)    ft.lstts fw  lamd 91rpa                                                       297             442               4U4             >94             524            2293
(30)X         dev"  a) rac   h         is tis slat s"las                           291             3M44              71225           46314           U°39!        *'274
1311     Racow. cost  P 4...
(2W   *1000 /     130))                                                            10.5               9.s            11.7            ::.
ass,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ sa.. s....s as                                         ss
.



NATIONAL URBAN DRVIMMMI PROECT
Table I Cmotlnd:
m  =mm  sm   am UUbt.mISe Old TIm fto  belul btb   as                                                                                    &as               MAL
, ~ ~   ~         ~         ~        ~~                        -            - -_ -_                               __-- __              __              _ _ 
S32)     Core unit construction lites 110) abov9)                                       k4                14                206
(331     Pros. of admin. costs for core units                                                                                2?               1?              '? 11
1 121) * 122) iii ! .                                                                                                                                           1
134)     prog. of IK  for cure units
t (24) 1  (25) ii )                                                         38                X
135)     Total costs for core units                                                                                                                                          I 2i  E  a,
1132) + 133) + 134) 1                                                      343               19               263                                              ::26
(36)     Nuer of core units                                                              '                 S                                                                 -. 0"
137)     Unit cost Der core unit
113)   1000 .'13) 1                                                       66324                             359:6
_=



-78 -                                                      ARM 9
Pas  B  f 13
DASIDIIE RIMEO OF MOmA
Table ..  AFFOPODAIJTY OF   4   SS-PROJECTS:  Costs of Various Plot Dotions
tin JD w plot)
ilt                 (2)                (3)                              15 ;t7
Plot size        UDi-rovided
Is4. mtors)         Construction        Salahaddin   Dld Tow  South  SWaal]a   orth        Al tadw    KOan           Aacaa
. ~~~~ _ . ... ...~~~~~~~..   ................   __..  .......... .. .. ....... -     ---- .....--,l=
iO                 N0e             59b.6             627.8           544.3           k9.5    745.3         639.6
7!                                 745.8             794.0           680.4           874.4    931.7        ?99.
100                  one            "4.4             1046.4           907.2          1165.9   1242.2       1065,9
112                lone            1113.7            112.0           1016.1          1305.7   1391.3       1'Q3,9
112           Core unit            4719.2            4799.8          4524.8              -    4976.3       4730.0
130                Wone            '92.?             1360.3          1179.4          1515.6   1614.9       195.7
'30           Core unit               M.2            4997.2          466.1               -    5099.9       4921.9
153                Von             1521.4            1601.0          1388.0          17?E.'   1900.6       1630.9
153           Core unit            5126.9            5227.8          4896.7              --   5385.e       511f.0



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
NATIONAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
rail. '. JIF08:LIST    w       "s3UICS   P1stad  Loa  httsm   an  Affsallitv. tl)
Plot D                                                     (l" .c        b..                        Ui1g o          b    lf          o Itibly         lot  1       u          1A
ftsia v. 51. Qist             Eptructtiom       C_npm.         ino:. capo.            h     I_It  Uatwri.1  Loa     P&At          Rilitin       obly Pot.   bq.d 12)    Pertet.
nau -. -......                                                                           _-_                                                     _ .                 .      _ _
063.               60             I=n               40                579.4           59.0                             5               313                         4)           2
ihtl. Ia                40                579.6            58.0             Is0            38               3             2            W            if
Bld. low                60                57.6               .o             15             23 S                           31                        16
79.5               75            NM                75                 724.5           72.5                             7       1                      15          49            3
btl. lon                7                 7?24.5           72.5             150            22               0             t            90           14
B1ld. loan              75                724.5            72.5             1150           24              t              32           97           17
2059               lOt            None              too               965.9            96.6                             9               9              to          63            4
ttl. oIDn              100                95.9             9t.t             is"t           2                9             :3            9           20
931. InW.              too                96*5.9           94.t             lS0           26               9              35          107           2:
1(93.9             112            NM                112               091.9          1tO.2                             tO              10              20          71            5
antl. loa             I1t                14S.9            108.2             150s           25             tO              is          106          22
1oq. loan              112               1081.9           103.2             1750          27              10              3t          113           26
473.0                        Ewe wnt               1364               338t.0          33l.L                            32              10              42          126          33
1335.7              "0            NM                130              1255.7           12.6                             12              It              23          32           10
btl, loan              130               125.7            125.6             1500          2?              it              So          1(0          n
Bldg. Ioan             130               1255.7           125.t             175t           29             1i              40          121           3t
4921.9                       Cte unit              1550               3361.9          3 2                              3t              11              42          129          36
1630.9             153            Nome,             153              1477.9           147.8                            14              12              26          78            ?
latl.  oan             15t               1477.9           147.              1500           29             12              *1          123           31
Bldq. loan             153               1471.9           147.8             1750          31              12              43          131          3
S17.C                         Care unit            1036               3331.0          333.1                            31              12              43          131         3t
11)  Calculat200s are for seleted illustrative plot sizes.  303 of  xistiao plots are milter than 60 s4. a.
The lest tore. slot sizes show   ere are reotesntatire of now (relocation) olots to he offtwed in the Kuzan site,
ant are the plot S:s. ausund under W102.                                                                                                                                                                    Z, I
(.I  Pavoents for wn 4oraded plot onir (lncludznq infrastructure, bet no buzldinq or loan for construrtion 
are assuaod to reRresent an  ore than 20 set cent of household income (excluding utilitiesl.                                                                                                                    0
Men a cpnstrutticn loan or a tu:lding is incladed, the pr:portion is assnn   to be 33% of household inome.
In: fino  .';l;t.n  as ior ne. lite..



- 80 -
ANNEX 9
Page 10 of 13
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
NATIONAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 4: AFFORDABILITY OF IRBID 1 SITES AND SERVICES: Calculation
of Unit Costs
Land acquisition cost
(JD per sq. m)
Cost Item (base + phys. cont.)                                 10               7
(2 phys.cont.)
(1) Land & compensation                            0       1,500           1,050
(2) Surveys and site preparation                  10          121             121
(3) Off-site works                                15          40               40
(4) On-site works                                 15         242              242
(5) Design                                        13           27              27
(6) Supervision                                   13          27              27
(7) Project management                             4           71             71
(8) Advisory services                             10          42              42
(9) Interest during construction                              80              80
(10) Core units                                    10         264             264
(11) Commercial buildings                          10          44              44
(12) Building & material loans                                129             129
(13) Community facilities                          10         838             838
(14)      Total Cost                                        3,425           2,975



- 81 -
ANNEX 9
ASIIA8ITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN                                                            Pase 11 of 13
NATIONAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 4 Continuod:
lI   th., l|_   t-'                IM  LADS PRIC                   Land acq. cost (JO  er s. a
A. tosts aWutIfh   aCcsrdit to 1ed  sl.                                      10               7
1US)  taa.r~mte 15.nvOfisa  ner.
!ita   (1) 1 (2) above)                                                 t.21            117t
llb)     lafrustrottesn.
itt. 140)                                                                24?             242
(17)     VI4Ms
-ai l 0, rfad costs Wrel Itt. (41)                                       26              26
1ist     Ttal to asgitlm
laid. tsoa, e vsys, A & iorf.
I 1.:1 + {11*  - I1I7) )                                                IV              1S
119)         t ttbo retl. froA 1d sals.
11 - srsWpttO      ld I  4u I   coiitv  se)                             0.5             0.5
1201     Total l4,0arS.1 tt. toats rucm. from lad  als.
l (11) * (14) )                                                         1010             763
S.    sin. costS, 11M.te  who t Oi1ntYrnst.
(21)     beip,   psiiAi., praltet  augs t.
end advisor osvissa.
itta  (5) thrs' (1) 1                                                    167             167
122!     Progurtlen ti civil Wks Coats fort
1.  infrstUcturJl (uKI. W1tse)                                          0.15 is15
II. iafrftrctwe (asra ow. sotes)n                                       0.05            0.05
Ili. Ctw   Min                                                          0.19             . to
I*. c wcrcal bullING                                                    0.03            0.03
v. cammtv   boldit4gs                                                   0.59            0.59
123)     'dan'.costa for isfrastp.'turs.
i 21) * (22) i.; ,                                                                      2
(241     Intrest inia  cortr. to-site Wks-.car
"its. and coa   blip) (Its  () 1                                                        10
(25)     Progotisa of le  Isis-
i.  i-sits  who                                                          M.12           0.52
ii. core  Bits                                                          t."             0.42
ixi. cosrcual buildiOgs                                                    I               0
(24)     l.O.C. for on-sits uorks
t iI * l(25) I. )                                                       42              42
I2U)     Total 'Mwnistrativs  costs.
(123) * '2)                                                           iT              4)
(28)     TOTIL (A and 3) MM. TMO' 5itE Of SEVINCi   L
1(20)   127) )                                                        10"              330
i24,     io.olats for l     csarcgs                                                    0              7
.30)     Land  soliso a) erssa  btl thri 01st sales                                 1,5            59
I'"      Recuv. cost aer u.s.
(20) * 1004  130) 1                                                 '8.0           t..9
sass           sasS



-82 -,N   9
Page 12 of 13
Table 4 Continued:
ilI. MCO  u             WINu cim C    TI
LaUacq. goust to~. od
_ , _7XR'
_
t32)     Core un*it cnstruction  (Itea  '0) above)                         64                    b4
(s* Grwt. i adnir ..... costs for  wne u.'ts
:  2' u. ',    X  li i  P.1                                                     '
!;4~1'   Prot. of !Cl ;or care ifnitE
. e+ 4 :.                           q}i  '9
1i<;     Thta. Eists 4or core in;ts
;2A'   %tet I  :3! 2n*+                                                 ?^ 
5:t2                  :*:5



- 83 -
WHEMITE KILGDOM OF ORM                                         ANNEX 9
RASEEMITE KINGDOM OF ORDNi                                                          Page 13 of 13
NATIONAL URBAN DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
bIg 5.  WMS IITY OF 1t I OM                   UllUla   Plot a* La  btiss si Mo4rdsioitv
tvwicot L.a        cs ebt   lota  Plot                      ado. u   Rwtaw                        Total        1to         loam
.  orn    Cgstructi  (at 1LI.8 . al                Coat         Cot            tst       NU. Low   Pout             tlt   ha8v Pdt.    kg'd           Pmt
112     Iht. Io                 15.-6                     1237.6      I-.6             15          26          1              34       104
31i. lam               154.4                      1237.6       123.3            175        29           3              3        112          12
ew    V udt           115.6          3472       4709.6       471.0                        44                          52       1s           r
130     14tl. Iao              179.0                        14         148.4            I0          :,9                         583     '14           I3
Bldg. lo               119.O                        1416       141.6            1750       31           9              40       :'
We gsit               1794.          3472          49          es.s                       S            I              so       13C
153     1htl. Ia              2111.4                     144A.4       150.3            100 :O       2         1t              4:       :2*
Bldg. Ila              2111.4                     143.4        130.3           M17         34          10              44       S43:
tos .ait              2111.4         3472       354          527.5                                    to 10           59       IK
'.rits
-ourvac   Li       Con out   T I Plot                       5l4d. p   Iot sw                      Total        :ncoeg      1^m
so.   ars   Cotructioe  tat to I as.  .)            Cost        cat         Sosost        Uti. Ln   Paw-   Utilitim   flnthh  ot.    ioo 4               .:.tftt
:12     SIat. loot             2016.                        1706       171.6            1500        31          I Se                    :r 
9Bdh. loa              N1.0                         1706       :70.S           7n0         :3           3              4*       :.            :t
cut unIt              2016.0         34            515C      SIS.C                        41           e              5i      11            .:
:30     Itl. lon               2340,0                       207 2   0M                  150        34           9              43       130           to
1814. It               230.0                        232       20:.:             1750       3            9              45 ff    '
Core sust             2340.0         3872          s54       550.4                        52                          it      :e3           n
153     hat". loan             24.0                         2444       334.6            1450        3          lf              43       144
214. loa               25.0                         244        2U44.6           17.0       40          :0                       ! M          :5
oes Vnol              25.0           S7            $Sl3     5PI.5                         a           11t             6!      :9            4



- 84 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 3
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
NATIONAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis for Aqaba Subprojects
Costs
1.       Land costs in existing residential areas within the upgrading site
are those actually paid for acquisition.   Also included are the costs of
acquiring other property deemed necessary to carry out the project, including
costs of demolition and relocation compensation for the households required to
move.*' The cost for acquisition of new land (i.e., land not already in
residential use) is the estimated market value. For new plots within upgraded
areas, this is estimated at JD 7.5/m2. For Khazan, the opportunity cost is
estimated to be much lower (say 3 JD/m2). Off-site costs are included
because, in this case, the off-site works generally benefit only the project
area. Off-site, on-site, surveys, site preparation, on-plot development,
design, supervision, advisory services, and project management costs are all
taken at their financial costs excluding taxes (base costs and physical
contingencies). Costs for advisory services are apportioned to the Aqaba
subprojects according to their proportion of total project costs and are
phased according to design and supervision inputs. Beneficiary construction
costs are also included. Because it is not known how many of the beneficiary
households will want to add on to their existing dwelling, the following
assumptions are used:
(i) For existing dwellings. A total of 50 percent of (final)
beneficiaries will build extensions (half with materials loan, half
with building loan), as assumed for the calculation of project
costs. These are all evaluated at the higher amount of JD 1,750 for
the economic analysis.
(ii) For new plots. All new plots are assumed to have a dwelling built,
either by UDD (included in core unit costs) or by beneficiaries
themselves, at similar cost (base JD 2,500/unit).
1/ "Without project" land use would be a continuation of the present
situation-low-income residential without upgrading; therefore, only the
costs necessary to carry out upgrading are included for land already in
residential use.



- 85 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 3
Benefits
2.       The benefits of the project are (a) the total imputed rental value of
new dwellings; (b) the total imputed rental value of extensions to existing
dwellings; (c) the increase in rental value of existing dwellings; and (d) the
market value of commercial and industrial plots.
3.       The resulting economic rate of return is around 15 percent (see table
1). If the construction costs of community and social facilities (to be built
under the project) are added, the rate of return decreases to 12.8 percent.
If benefits are delayed by a year; i.e., with construction costs occurring as
scheduled, the resulting return would again be around 12.8 percent. A 15
percent increase in the costs associated with the physical works would also
reduce the rate of return to about 13 percent.



- 86-                                                         ANKM 10
HASIIEKTE KINODG  01 JODNase 3 of 3
NATIONAL URE                            NTJE
(WIIC ETC V KO ra NW ihtim  "a~ bua.mt Prwu
1567193 1599IS1911N31ow  199  199 193197 19. -
COSTS
laredcusucleaU                                   0      333     S13
ad, pWt. c t urmdd.                                     16     3S         9 o
Svre  and prewation                              0       a       21       a       1
Of-Ite imttr rtwt                                0       15     a         x       a
"irte infrastructure                             0      In      669      63        7
-otd uvelIt  tby,                                0      Is      26       0         S
8maiewy cmsntrti., extenia                       0       33     in       77      2U       II?
4       , uinits on ntbplots.                    so1 0           li t 11
Onesip, upervisio, Mproj. qpt.                  7       133     124    1?        U        St
ectioidcuawsue.                                 19       3       33       79       1       13
Operiwahw ad & teamwe                                                     5       1?      13 IU 141        14       141     14      14      141- - -
lotl Costs                                    93   135n71                 336141                 ll      1 4     141      14      141     141.--
WITS
(i) Imted rentald  lue(nuiplots)                         1      179      497     I1            1 0  f1 S9t         SU       91    S41       541 -
40 )Tp. value, addtl rms u. plots                                26      14      21       3n      379      37      3        17      374     374
(i) Inc. UV. ui, exstg. row U. plots                             39       N      47       6          1        5    61      Si    561       561
(iv) A. Ibrket sais of read. plot.                                      31.6
9.  aRiet ales of Co1. plots                                               19.1
total krfits                                   0      43      P3    91   16 7          147       146    14%      147      1 4  476    1176 - --
#et Smfits                                    -131        24   -2.4           1    15        I       1        1o      1S   131        1335 ---
(comc rate of retrivn                 9.197



HAStEIITE KINGOON OF JORDAN
NATIONAL URBAN DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
PIPELINE OF OI1 mTIAL SUIPROJECTS
IFOR kWF 3
tikely     Timing    Probability
LAND USE S  I/          Start of   Co  letion        for
Ci tzLIT i.  -    - 5uboroJsc            . . Irint.    ^fArt Ia).    ftousehold no.       Plot up,      A      a      C    P    Get 5UUan  of ContU              1  _
AQA8A               Salahaddin               UPG              8.9            186    9        250        32      1      a   19      7/87          6/89          1
(276)
Old lawn (South)         UPS               7.8           41 .   4        3t0        SS      2      4   39     9/87           4/90          1
(463)
Old Town (Mo,t.h)        UPG              18.5           972 *  23       820        48      7      9   36     6/89           9/91          3
(1000)
Al Hadwah                UPG             10.0            40S 5  0        350        63      3      8   26     3/88           7/92          2
(405)
Shallalah (South)        UPG             11.9            730 .   4       620        61      5    14   20      9/89          12/91          3
(734)
Shallalah (Worth)        UPG             11.4            631 +  55       590        60      3      1   36      1/88          3/91          1
(686)
Khazan                  SS               11.1              0 * 500      500        S9       1    13   27    10/87          31/91          1
(500)
MADA8A                 1                     S&S              6.0                 240        240        66       2     2   30      5/88          2/91          1   1
11                     sS              6.0                240         240        64      1    14   21      1/59          12/92          3
Ar>UUt              Nlan                     UPS              18.3            300 * 300      550        62       1    19   1s      1/88          10/90         1
(600)
Wamlan                   SaS              8.7                 360        360        68      2      S   2S    10/88           9/91          2
Nadhtf                   UPG              8.8                1250        770        72       -     3   2S    10/89           9/92          3
ZARIA               Jan a  I                 UPS              13.0                950        720        74       -     4   22     5/84           2/91          1
J&n*a  II                UPG              12.8               9S0         720        7S       -     1   24     7/89           6/92          2
IRB61                  I                     SBS             14.9                 370        370        43       1    28   28      1/88          4/91          1
II                    S&S             10.7                350         3S0        so      2     6   34      7/89           6/92          2
MA AN               South                    UPG             36.0            780 * 100       8a8        7        -     1   24      S/90          9/92          3
( 880)
Noorth                   UPG             24.0            270 *  S0       320        74       -     I   25     9/90           6/93          3
(320)
TAFEMItt                                     UPG             18.0            480    S0      530        75      -      3   22     8/88          10/90          1
(536)
I/Lan.  LM    Atongorin                               2/erobabhlitv for Inclusion in 1981 93 ProaraF
A   Resident al I,ncluding sarket plot)               I) Included in 13P III
a   Comrcial/industrial                               2) Likely to be in tlOP III
C   Social facilities                                 3) Unlikely to be in UDP III
O   Road% and footpaths and open space
0.-



- 88 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 1
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
NATIONAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Key Indicators
1987 to 1993
A. Land under development:
Total square meters
Percent productive
Estimated cost per square mete-
B. Land developed:
Total square meters
Percent productive
Cost per square meter
C. Land sold:
Average cost per square meter
Average sales price per square meter
Net residential square meters
Square meters sold to households in 10-40th percentile
Square meters sold to households in 10-20th percentile
Average beneficiary plot size
Number of beneficiary plots
D. Average number of days between contractor hand-over and sales of:
(i) Beneficiary plots
(ii) Market sales plots
E. Average number of days between submission to HB and HB decision on:
(i) Beneficiary mortgages
(ii) UDD feasibility study
F. Average number of days between submission to CVDB and CVDB decision on:
community facilities
G. Breakdown of cost of plots sold:
(To be filled in following preparation of final accounts each year.)
Land costs per square meter
Infrastructure costs per square meter
Financial costs per square meter
Other costs per square meter



- 89 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 1
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
NATIONAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS OF THE PROJECT FILE
A.  General Reports on the Sector
1.   Housing Strategy Technical Memoranda (Ministry of Planning)
No. 5 Revised Housing Needs and Associated Investments (1985-2006)
No. 6 Housing Vacancies
No. 7 Existing Housing Situation
No. 8 Housing Delivery Systems
No. 9 Private Housing Suppliers Survey
B. Documents
1.   National Urban Program Feasibility Report, UDD, January 1984
Volume A.   Supporting Reports
1. Institutional Aspects
2. Project Identification
3. Technical Aspects
Volume B.   Research Papers
1. Background Studies
2. (See Aqaba Feasibility Studies)
3. Site Evaluations
4. Social Surveys
2.   Financial Analysis:  Assumptions on Base Cost and Land Use
3.   Aqaba Upgrading Feasibility Study, ARA, November 1986
Volume I    Main Report
Volume II   Appendices
4.   Policy Statements for UDD, LCHD, and CVDB
5.   Terms of Reference for Advisory Services
C.  Selected Working Papers
1.   Review of the Jordan Housing Bank, D. Gardner (Consultant),
September, 1986
2.   Project Preparation .Mission, Back-to-Office Report, W.A. Shirrefs
(Consultant), December 1986
3.   Project Related Responsibilities and Manpower Development Needs of HB
4.   Project Costs and Revenue Flows



90                                  CHART Cl
I-    i
it1 ii           i     I
s2!~~~~~~ P i;



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
NATIONAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Orgonization of the Urbon Development Depadment
Choirto of
II                                :
~~~~~~iI 
o~~~~~~~~co
o  -
l       S    s      r    el - - -m2 - 
Ioat Comu f            xnc(_  kbJ i;
ee`   eopw~
A"  L ~ -----       ---
I8          _        U                  
I -    '           p  
OtoctofTeotv At*v    _ to
(Dfrectr    (nOX,  ect e    DOectdu      O             E                Dtct
I   toans   L  I  Socid   L  I ACN  L  I Pew   L  1    9    L  IWA_3L
|Moiketin      CommunityS|    Z[ 
Inirdudl Pivtects                                                                                     '.3Pret  l|  c
WorId Bontc-31O82 2



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
NATIONAL URBAN DEWVLOPMENT PROJCT
Organization of the Cities and Vllages Devefopnt Bonk
rBoard of Dkectvrs
tt             n             Exterdnl Auditor
i  Generae              MtlA
l~~~~~~~~~~~eea loatW
AI vis                                                              , Fhxonclol Asdstont|
Diision            Aftairs Dh istv|                         Division        Expenses Division _     Dhkbsin
Admetricslo &statistics                 O*gan-  ntroAuiatlFnweonhicfRglr
training
Division ~      Min                 iiio            xpre Dso               Dso
WoCod Bank-311t7:o



A;_nw~~~~~~~~~~~
X -     B 5   ' ' e-aX
Before ..(Upgrading site: First urban development pro ent                       Am
t~~~~~~~.  ~~~~~~~~r~~~~~~--.                            .  f e
~~~r1                                     R~~~~~~~4
S
-                  A~~~~~~~-*
(Photographs courtesc~ o' Lrthan Development Department. Amman)



IBRD 19915
LEBANON P,
S    R I A N         A      R A B
R E P U B L I C                                             I \IRAQ
1~~                                       .#-l/   
Mlmm~~~~~~~~~~~~~11
AAAAA
NATIONAL URBAN
DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
ISRAEL   (  0Kgrk                                               \.  LOCATION OF SUBPROJECTS
\   I S R A  E L    ;)    0 Krk                                   \                IN   PIPELINE
CURPENT PROJECT*
\  J  dD                                                N              ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ UPGRADING SUBPROJECTS
.     ShTES AND sERVIaS
SUBPROJECTS
)   j                                                      \.          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PREVIOUS PROJECTSz
(UDP f and UDP 2)
;    A     UPGRADING AREAS
A     SITES AND SERVICES AREAS
OMO  /             SELECTED URBAN CENTERS
(Circles graduated
/                    a/  J  occording to population)
-30* 
ARAB              j
REPUBLIC                                                       j j /                                               500000
OF EGYPT j *1@A                                            /
t)AqabS J                                                                            )      50,000
//       -    --- 5,000
_._WTO                                  X . -OCCUPIED TERRITORIES
IO       o ,       ,    . ,             Circled symbols indicate subprojects
S A  U D I    A  R A  B I A            1ARES6     20       40       i               aoroposed for 1987-1993 progrom
MAY 1987



