Page  1
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 2841 JO
                              Loan Agreement
                   (National Urban Development Project)
                                  between
                        HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Dated  July 13, 1987
                                                    LOAN NUMBER  2841  JO
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 13, 1987,  between
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)     Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower
through the Urban Development Department of its Ministry of Municipal and
Rural Affairs and the Environment (UDD);
     (C)    Part B of the Project will be carried out by the Housing Bank
(HB) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to HB part of the proceeds of the Loan as
provided in this Agreement;
     (D)    Part C of the Project will be carried out by the Cities and
Villages Development Bank (CVDB) pursuant to a management and credit
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and CVDB as provided in
this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date
herewith between the Bank and HB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and HB
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;
     (b)    "Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means the agreement to-be
entered into between the Borrower and HB pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Financing Agreement;
     (c)    "CVDB Management and Credit Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and CVDB pursuant to Section 3.01 (c)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules to the CVDB Agreement;
     (d)    "UDD Operational Policy Statement" means the statement of
operational policy approved by the Board of Directors of UDD on March 23,
1987, as amended to the date of this Agreement, and as the same may be
amended from time to time;
     (e)    HB Policy Statement" means the statement of investment and
lending policy approved by the Board of Directors of HB on April 28, 1987,
as amended to the date of this Agreement, and as the same may be amended
from time to time;
     (f)    "CVDB Policy Statement" means the statement of investment and
lending policy approved by the Board of Directors of CVDB on May 9, 1985,
as amended to the date of this Agreement, and as the same may be amended
from time to time;
     (g)    "LIHRF Operational Guidelines" means the Operational Guidelines
for the Borrower's Low Income Housing Revolving Fund approved by the
Borrower's Council of Ministers on January 30, 1985; and
     (h)    "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to twenty six million four hundred thousand
dollars ($26,400,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement
for: (i) expenditures made (or, if the Bank-'-shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts
A, and B (4) (a) of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) amounts paid
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by HB pursuant to loans made
by HB under Part B (1) of the Project and in respect of which the withdrawal
from the Loan Account is requested.
     (b)    The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
Page  3
maintain in dollars a special account in a bank, acceptable to the Bank, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993, or such later
date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per
annum for each Interest Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum
above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior
to the commencement of such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such
Semester.
      (c)    For purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing
                  on each date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  including the Interest Period in which this Agreement is
                  signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June
                  30, 1982, expressed as a percentage per annum, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank.
            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                  months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project through UDD with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
economic, financial, engineering and urban development practices and in
accordance with UDD Operational Policy Statement, and shall provide, prompt-
ly as needed, the funds, facilities, services, staff and other resources
required for the purpose.
      (b)   For the purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, the
Borrower shall make available to HB:
            (i)   the equivalent in the currency of the Borrower (deter-
                  mined as of the respective dates of withdrawal from the
                  Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account) of
                  the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
                  Category 2 of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of
                  Schedule I to this Agreement and withdrawn or paid out on
                  account of amounts paid or to be paid by HB pursuant to
                  loans made by HB under Part B (1) of the Project, or of
                  the cost of goods financed or to be financed by HB under
                  Part B (4) (a) of the Project; and
            (ii)  an additional amount in the currency of the Borrower
Page  4
                  equivalent to ten million one hundred thousand dollars
                  ($10,100,000) out of the proceeds of the sale of plots
                  and core houses pursuant to the provisions of Part E of
                  Schedule 5 to this Agreement to be utilized by HB in
                  providing loans to households under Part B (2) of the
                  Project, under a subsidiary financing agreement to be
                  entered into between the Borrower and HB on terms and
                  conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and
                  which shall include, without limitation, terms pursuant
                  to which HB shall undertake to: (A) pay interest on the
                  principal amounts so made available pursuant to
                  subparagraphs (i) and (ii) of this paragraph and
                  withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a fixed
                  rate of 7.92%; (B) repay the principal amount so made
                  available pursuant to subparagraph (i) of this paragraph
                  over a period of 17 years, inclusive of a grace period of
                  four years; and (C) repay the principal amount so made
                  available pursuant to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph
                  over a period of 18 years, inclusive of a grace period of
                  four years.
      (c)   For the purpose of carrying out Part C of the Project, the
Borrower shall enter into a management and credit agreement, satisfactory
to the Bank, with CVDB providing for: (i) the establishment and operation
by CVDB of the credit facility under Part C (1) of the Project in accordance
with CVDB's applicable policies and procedures pursuant to CVDB Policy
Statement; (ii) the carrying out by CVDB of Part C (2) of the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate practices
and in accordance with the applicable provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement; (iii) the channeling through CVDB of the funds, including the
proceeds of the Loan, required by UDD for the provision of the facilities
for the social services under Part A (3) of the Project; and (iv) the
payment by the Borrower to CVDB of all costs incurred by CVDB in the
carrying out of its activities under Part C (2) of the Project.
      Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01
of this Agreement and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out or cause to be carried out, the Project
in accordance with the LIHRF Operational Guidelines and the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
      (a)   without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Loan Agreement, cause HB to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Financing
Agreement, and CVDB to perform in accordance with the provisions of the CVDB
Management and Credit Agreement, all the obligations of HB and CVDB therein
set forth, take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable HB and CVDB to perform such obligations, and not take or permit
to be taken any action which would interfere with such performance; and
     (b)    exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement and
the CVDB Management and Credit Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive any such Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods, works and consultants' services required for Parts A and B (4)
(a) of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.05. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules and records and reports, respectively) in respect of Part B of the
Project shall be carried out by HB pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
Page  5
                                ARTICLE IV
                       Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof, including, without limitation,
separate records and accounts of UDD.
      (b)    The Borrower shall, through UDD:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section including those for the Special
                  Account f or each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                  not later than six months after the end of each such
                  year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall, through UDD:
            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
                  Section, records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all
                  records (contracts, orders, invoices bills, receipts and
                  other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times: (i) cause the facilities
provided under Part A (3) of the Project to be operated and maintained and
from time to time, promptly as needed, all--necessary repairs and renewals
thereof to be made, all in accordance with sound engineering and financial
practices; and (ii) ensure the timely and adequate provision of funds,
facilities and other resources required for the purpose.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   HB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
Page  6
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the
Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that HB will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
     (c)    UDD Operational Policy Statement, or law No. 4 of 1974 of the
Borrower pertaining to the establishment of HB, or HB Policy Statement, or
CVDB Policy Statement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
UDD to carry out, on behalf of the Borrower, Part A of the Project, or of
HB to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement, or of CVDB
to carry out Part C of the Project or to perform any of its obligations
under the CVDB Management and Credit Agreement.
     (d)    The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of HB or CVDB
or for the suspension of HB's and CVDB's operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
     (a)    the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
     (b)    the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been executed on behalf
of the Borrower and HB;
      (b)   the CVDB Management and Credit Agreement has been exe-
cuted on behalf of the Borrower and CVDB; and
      (c)   the Borrower has appointed to UDD duly qualified and
experienced manpower development officer and public relations officer;
      (d)   HB has (i) appointed to its Low-Cost Housing Department duly
qualified and experienced financial analyst and engineer, and (ii) employed,
in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of the Project
Agreement, a project appraisal and contract coordinator to assist said
Department in carrying out its functions.
     Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within
the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included
in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by HB, and is legally binding upon HB in accordance with its terms;
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and HB and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and HB in accordance with its terms; and
      (c)   that the CVDB Management and Credit Agreement has been
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and CVDB and is legally binding upon
the Borrower and CVDB in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
Page  7
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Planning
            P.O. Box 555
            Amman, Jordan
            Cable address:                      Telex:
            MINISTRY OF PLANNING                      21319 JO
            Amman
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
                  Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT),
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA)  or
                                                64145  (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                  HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
                  By/s/ M. Kamal
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By/s/ A. J. Stoutjesdijk
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                     Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
Page  8
                              Amount of the
                              Loan Allocated              % of
                              (Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                      Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) For Part A
    of the Project
    (a)   Works                   17,300,000        45%
    (b)   Goods                    3,490,000        100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures,
                                                    100% of local
                                                    expenditures (ex-
                                                    factory cost) and
                                                    70% of local
                                                    expenditures for
                                                    other items pro-
                                                    cured locally
    (c)   Engineering                500,000        100%
          design and
          construction
          supervision
          services
(2)  For Part B of the
     Project
    (a)   loans under                    3,900,000        45% of amounts
          subpart (1)                                     paid by HB
          thereof
    (b)   goods under                       10,000        70% of local
          subpart (4) (a)                                 expenditures
          thereof
(3)  Unallocated                               1,200,000
                TOTAL                   26,400,000
                                        ===========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the     equivalent of $500,000, may be made in respect of Category
(1) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date  but after
January 31, 1987.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in implementing
its strategy to improve the shelter provision of low-income households
through the promotion of suitable shelter development within its urban
centers and the strengthening of institutional capabilities to facilitate
such development.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
Page  9
to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
(1)       Upgrading of existing high density, low-income settlement sites,
including the provision of additional infill residential and commercial
plots and core houses and workshops.
(2)       Development of new low-income settlement sites, including the
provision of residential and commercial plots and core houses on about 40%
of the residential plots and workshops.
(3)        The provision, for the settlements to be so upgraded and
developed, of suitable open spaces, road accesses, internal roads and
footpaths, water and sewerage facilities, including water and sewerage
connections to individual houses and plots, and social services, including
community centers, schools, vocational and women training centers, health
clinics and emergency centers.
(4)       The acquisition of land for the purposes of such upgrading and
development and of providing secure tenure to residents.
(5)        Strengthening of UDD's capacity in designing and executing
urban development projects, including the provision of staff training.
Part B:
(1)       The provision and operation by HB of a credit facility to provide
loans to households for the purchase of building materials and the
construction and expansion of houses within the settlements to be upgraded
and developed under Part A of the Project.
(2)       The provision and operation by HB of a credit facility to provide
loans to households for the purchase of plots, core houses and workshops to
be prepared and constructed under Part A (1) and (2) of the Project.
(3)       The provision and operation by HB of a credit facility to provide
loans to UDD on behalf of the Borrower for the acquisition of land, other
than that required for the social services facilities, the preparation of
residential and commercial plots and the construction of on-site
infrastructure and core houses under Part A of the Project.
(4)       The carrying out by HB of a program to (a) strengthen its capacity
in appraising the technical, financial and economic feasibility of projects
to develop residential and commercial plots and to construct low-income
housing, including the provision of staff training and computer equipment;
and (b) appraise the technical, financial and economic feasibility of
upgrading and development activities to be carried out by UDD under Part A
of the Project.
Part C:
(1)       The provision and operation by CVDB of a credit facility to
provide loans to UDD on behalf of the Borrower for the acquisition of land
required for the social services facilities and for the construction of such
facilities under Part A (3) of the Project.
(2)       The carrying out by CVDB of a program to evaluate the suitability
of the facilities for the social services to be provided under Part A (3)
of the Project and to channel to UDD the Borrowers funds required for the
provision of such facilities.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1992.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                              Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                    (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
Page  10
     beginning February 15, 1992
     through   February 15, 2004                    1,015,000
On August 15, 2004                                  1,025,000
___________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    The  following  premiums  are  specified  for   the   purposes   of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
     Time of Prepayment                                   Premium
                                        The interest rate (ex-pressed as
                                        a   percentage per annum)
                                        applicable to the balance
                                        outstanding on the Loan  on the
                                        day of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                           0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                           0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                                   0.65
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                          0.88
     more than 15 years
     before maturity
More than 15 years before                           1.00
     maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof , goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.  To the extent practicable, contracts: (a) for works shall be grouped
in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more
each; and (b) for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to
cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Hashemite Kingdom of
Page  11
Jordan may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Works which the Bank agrees cannot be grouped pursuant to Part A.2
(a) hereof, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.  Goods (a) which the Bank agrees cannot be grouped pursuant to Part
A.2 (b) hereof, may be procured under contracts awarded on  the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank, and (b) which are estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of  $50,000 per contract, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a
list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank; provided, however,
that the aggregate amount of all contracts to be procured pursuant to
this Part C.2 shall not exceed the equivalent of $800,000.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract for (a) works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more; and (b) goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $150,000 or more, the procedures set f orth in paragraphs 2
and 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment
out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for such contract are to
be made out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract together with the
other information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
    (c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b)       shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure.  Such contracts shall be retained in accordance with
Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix I to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded to
consultants: (A) whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and (B) who
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
    The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes
of Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
Page  12
A.  Selection of Sites
    UDD shall select the sites for development and upgrading
under Part A of the Project on the basis of the following criteria:
    1.    The urban centers within which sites are proposed to be
          upgraded and developed have been designated by the Borrower as
          priority areas for urban development pursuant to its housing
          strategy.
    2.    The sites to be upgraded have been determined to suffer basic
          deficiencies in the provision of infrastructure and social
          services and are not designated under an existing program of
          such upgrading.
    3.    The sites to be developed have been determined to be
          (a)   suitably located to avail their residents of existing
          employment opportunities, and (b) amenable to such development
          in view of their particular topographical, soil and drainage
          conditions, the availability of suitable off-site
          infrastructure facilities and the assurance that the required
          land for such development would be readily available at a
          reasonable cost.
    4.    The local authorities of the localities within which such sites
are, or are to be, located have indicated their approval in principle of
such upgrading and development.
    5.    The concerned authorities, agencies and companies responsible
for the provision of infrastructure facilities, public utilities and
social services within such localities have indicated their readiness to
ensure the proper operation and maintenance of such facilities, utilities
and services within such sites.
B.  Feasibility of Upgrading and Development
    The following will be undertaken upon completion of the
selection of sites pursuant to Part A of this Schedule.
    1.    UDD shall carry out, on the basis of guidelines satisfactory to
          the Bank, a feasibility study for each such site, including the
          preparation of preliminary designs therefor.
    2.    Concurrently with the preparation of the preliminary designs as
          indicated above, UDD shall initiate the process of (i)
          obtaining formal approval of the local authorities to the
          proposed upgrading and development, and the formal undertakings
          by the authorities, agencies and companies concerned with the
          provision of infrastructure facilities, public utilities and
          social services to ensure the proper operation and maintenance
          of such facilities, utilities and services, and '(ii) acquiring
          the land and rights in respect of land required for the
          upgrading and development of the selected sites.
    3.    As part of establishing the feasibility of the upgrading and
          development to be undertaken, UDD shall carry out a
          registration survey of each selected site, pursuant to which
          UDD will establish and maintain suitable contacts with existing
          and prospective residents of such sites in order to identify
          their concerns and provide solutions therefor, and to initiate
          a scheme for the marketing of the residential and commercial
          plots and core houses to be offered for sale on such sites.
    4.    Concurrently with the above, UDD shall investigate and
          establish, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to UDD and HB,
          the commitment of the present and prospective residents of the
          sites to the upgrading and development of these sites and the
          ability of said residents to pay for such upgrading and
          development.
    5.    After completion of above process in respect of each selected
          site, UDD shall prepare and furnish to HB a detailed proposal
Page  13
          for the upgrading or development of such site and the
          activities to be undertaken thereunder.
C.  Assessment of Upgrading and Development
    The following shall be undertaken upon receipt by UDD of
HB's approval of the proposal for upgrading and development referred to
in Part B.5 of this Schedule.
    1.    UDD shall prepare detailed designs for each site to be upgraded
          or developed and technical, financial and economic assessment
          thereof.  Such designs and assessments will be furnished to HB
          for HB's approval, together with: (a) details of the costs of
          such upgrading and development; (b) analysis of the ability of
          the present and prospective residents of such sites to pay for
          such upgrading and development; (c) a copy of the agreement
          between UDD and the local authorities providing for said
          authorities' approval of, and commitment to, such upgrading and
          development; (d) evidence of the undertakings by, and the
          capability of, the authorities, agencies and companies
          concerned with the provision of infrastructure facilities,
          public utilities and social services to operate and maintain
          properly the facilities provided under Part A (3) of the
          Project upon the completion of site upgrading and development
          by UDD; (e) description of the marketing plan for the sale of
          plots and core houses and evidence of commitment by the present
          and prospective residents of the sites to be upgraded to
          purchase the same in the form of purchase agreements, down
          payments against such purchases or other evidence acceptable to
          HB; and (f) any other information requested by HB in this
          context.
    2.    UDD shall, concurrently with the above, prepare, in accordance
          with guidelines acceptable to UDD and CVDB, and furnish to CVDB
          for its approval, detailed designs for the social services
          facilities and centers to be provided in each site to be
          developed and upgraded, together with the details of the
          equipment, vehicles and furniture therefor.
D.  Approval of Upgrading and Development
    1.    The designs, assessments and other data to be prepared by UDD
          and furnished to HB under Part C.1 of this Schedule shall be
          analyzed by HB, in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the
          Bank.  On the basis of such analysis, HB shall approve only
          such upgrading and development activities which: (a) are
          technically and financially feasible; (b) are estimated to have
          an economic rate of return of at least 9%; (c) are marketable
          and the prospective residents are able to pay for; and (d) in
          respect of which all approvals and commitments of the concerned
          authorities, agencies or companies have been secured.  HB shall
          furnish to the to the Bank for its approval a report, in form
          and substance satisfactory to the Bank, in respect of the
          upgrading and development activities which are so approved by
          HB, together with the supporting documentation and any other
          information reasonably requested by the Bank.
    2.    The designs for the social facilities, together with the
          details of the equipment, vehicles and furniture therefor, to
          be prepared by UDD and furnished to CVDB under Part C.2 of this
          Schedule shall be reviewed by CVDB to determine the suitability
          thereof, on the basis of criteria satisfactory to the Bank, for
          the site to be upgraded or developed.  CVDB shall furnish to
          the Bank for its approval the results of such review, together
          with the supporting documentation and any other information
          reasonably requested by the Bank.
    3.    Only such upgrading and development activities which the Bank
          shall have approved, on the basis of the information to be
          provided pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Part, shall be
          eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Page  14
E.  Allocation and Sale of Plots and Core Houses
    Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree, inter alia,
on the basis of market conditions, the plots and core houses to.be
prepared and constructed under Part A (1) and (2) of the Project shall be
allocated and sold on the basis of the guidelines set forth hereinafter.
    1.    UDD shall ensure that: (a) about 60% of such 2 plots shall have
          sizes averaging between 110 and 160m each and shall be sold
          only in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
          Part; (b) about 35% of such, plots shall have sizes averaging
          between 160 and 300m each and shall be sold at market prices to
          house-holds for the construction of houses and to private
          developers for the construction of houses and apartment
          buildings for subsequent rental or resale to households; and
          (c) about 5% of such plots shall have suitable sizes for the
          construction of commercial units and workshops and shall be          sold at 
market prices to individuals or businesses for
          commercial operations.
    2.    All prof its to be generated through the sale of plots referred
          to in subparagraphs (b) and (c) of paragraph 1 above shall be
          utilized to reduce the prices of the plots referred to in
          subparagraph (a) of said paragraph I and of the core houses
          constructed thereon; provided, however, that the prices thereof
          shall not be set at levels below that which will be sufficient
          to cover (a) the costs associated with the acquisition of land
          therefor and any on-plot construction, including the connection
          thereof to water and sewerage facilities, and (b) the pro-rata
          share of the costs of (i) cadastral surveys and site
          preparation, (ii) design, management and supervision activities
          relating to site upgrading and development, (iii) on-site
          infrastructure, including water supply and sewerage, street
          lighting, electricity and telephone, roads under 10m width and
          50% of the cost of roads of 10m width or more, and (iv)
          interest and other charges paid during the period of the
          preparation and construction of the site.
    3.    The plots referred to in subparagraph (a) of paragraph I above
          and the core houses constructed thereon shall be allocated, in
          approximate proportion to the number of, and sold only to,
          households the income of which is determined, in accordance
          with a methodology satisfactory to the Bank, to fall between
          10% and 40% of the national income distribution, provided that
          the plots and core houses to be so sold shall be affordable to
          such households.  For the purposes hereof, a plot or core house
          shall be considered affordable by a household when, after
          deduction of a down payment of 10% of the sale price thereof,
          the amount required to service the mortgage loan and the
          estimated amount of utility charges shall represent, on a
          monthly average basis not more than (a) one-fifth of the
          estimated monthly income of such household in respect of plots
          and core houses within the sites to be upgraded under Part A
          (1) of the Project, and (b) one-third of the estimated monthly
          income of such household in respect of plots and core houses
          within the sites to be developed under Part A (2) of the
          Project.
F.  Coordination, Monitoring and Supervision
    1.    UDD shall apply policies and procedures, satisfactory to the
          Bank, for ensuring the proper planning, design, coordination,
          monitoring and supervision of Part A of the Project.  For these
          purposes, UDD shall maintain a team of qualified staff to
          undertake, in accordance with suitable action plans
          satisfactory to the Bank, such activities in coordination with
          and the participation of HB and CVDB, if so requested by HB and
          CVDB, and to report, on a quarterly basis, to HB and CVDB on
          the carrying out of the upgrading and development activities
          under Part A of the Project.
    2.    UDD shall maintain a team of qualified staff to be responsible
Page  15
          for the marketing of the plots and core houses, to advise
          households on construction and extension of houses and to
          supervise such construction and extension, to promote the
          development of community organization and to assist HB in
          processing applications for loans under Part B (1) and B (2) of
          the Project.
    3.    (a) Upon completion of the upgrading and development of each
          site, UDD shall ensure that the facilities provided under Part
          A (3) of the Project are transferred to the concerned
          authorities, agencies and companies for operation and
          maintenance; and (b) within one year of the completion of the
          upgrading and development of each such site, UDD will prepare
          and furnish to the Bank a report, in form and substance
          satisfactory to the Bank, on the execution thereof, its costs
          and the benefits derived and to be derived therefrom, the
          performance of UDD, HB and CVDB of their respective activities
          and the accomplishments of the purposes of the Loan.
H.  Consultants' Services
    In order to assist UDD in carrying out the tasks referred to
in this Schedule, the Borrower shall employ consultants with
qualifications and experience and under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part A of the
Project and payments in respect of withdrawals under loans made by HB
under Part B (1) of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance
with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a
deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
specify.  On the basis of such requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall
be required to replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding
the amount of payments
made out of the Special Account f or eligible expenditures.  All such
deposits shall -be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts,
as shall have been Justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
Page  16
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower 'out of the Special Account for
which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the
time of such request, such documents and other evidence as the Bank shall
reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by
the Bank when either of the following situations first arises:
     (i)  the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals
          should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
          in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
          Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
          or
    (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
          eligible Categories minus the amount of any outstanding special
          commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of
          the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall be
          equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
          Allocation.
    b)    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of the Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, deposit
into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified.  No further deposit b@-the Bank
into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount for
crediting to the Loan Account.
