t/AA/ 3 g 7 J -è///
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
iit,5.st Ni  :1 2'f;3 - CIA   'I; T   2AI                         Report No. 11253-CIA
't~~I A     11hN . N 1     NI;U1 ?h I.L. TEIT lPN IJ    i .,  i iN :t l'
A,:i6 .,-*  7. f'14AN
STAFF A.PPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
TIANJIN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEBRuARY 11, 1993
Industry and Energy Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
llis document has a restridted distibution and may be used by redcpients only In the performance of
their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be diselosed without Worid Bank authrizaon



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of December 31, 1992)
Currency name = Renminbi (EME)
Currency unit - Yuan (Y) - 100 fen
Y 1.00         -  $0.174
$1.00          a  Y 5.75
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB        -          Asian Development Bank
BOCOM      -          Bank of Communications
CIB        -          China Investment Bank
CRS        -          Contract Responsibility System
DEMC       -          Daming Electric Motor Company
ERR        -          Economic Rate of Return
FEAC       -          Foreign Exchange Adjustment Center
PIs        -          Financial Intermediaries
FRR        -          Financial Rate of Return
FTC        -          Foreign Trading Company
GOC        -          Government of China
GVIO       -          Gross Value of Industrial Output
ICE        -          International Competitive Bidding
ICBC       -          Industrial and Commercial Bank of China
LIB        -          Limited International Bidding
MOF        -          Ministry of Finance
PBC        -          People's Bank of China
PCBC       -          People's Construction Bank of China
PFIs       -          Participating Financial Intermediaries
PRC        -          P3ople's Republic of China
SMT        -          Surface-Mounted Technology
SPC        -          State Planning Commission
TAIC       -          Tianjin Auto Industry Corporation
TCC        -          Technical Cooperation Credit
TEPB       -          Tianjin Environmental Protection Bureau
TIDP       -          Tianjin Industrial Development Project
TLIP       -          Tianjin Light Industry Project
TMB        -          Tianjin Municipal Branch
TMG        -          Tianjin Municipal Government
THIB       -          Tianjin Machinery Industry Bureau
TPC        -          Tianjin Planning Commission
TVEs       -          Town and Village Enterprises
TWBLO      -          Tianjin World Bank Loan Office
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
CHII
TINJIN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summarv
Bgrrwe_s:             People's Republic of China
Deneficiaries:        Municipality of Tianjin (Tianjin)
Amount:                $150.0 million equivalent
Terms:                Twenty years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate
Onlendina Terams:     Tianjin would onlend the proceeds of the loan as fol-
lows: (i) onlend the industrial credit componeat of
$134.5 million to participating financial intermediaries
(PPis), and (ii) out of the technical assistance compo-
nent of $15.5 million, $200,000 to PFIs and $9.7 million
to eligible enterprises, on the same terms and interest
rate as that of the Bank loan. PFIs would onlend the
loan proceeds of the indust..ial credit component to
eligible enterprises for a maximum period of 15 years
including up to 3 years of grace and at a variable
interest rate equal to the Bank rate plus a minimum
spread of 1.2 percent. Subborrowers would carry the
foreign exchange risk under the industrial credit compo-
nent, and, under the technical assistance component,
PFis and enterprises would bear the foreign exchange
risk on the respective amounts indicated above, while
Tianiin would carry the foreign exchange risk on the
balance of $5.6 million.
Prolect Descrintion:  The project would support the restructuring of five key
industrial subsectors (machine tools, construction
machinery, automotive parts, electronic components and
electric motors).  It would provide financial assistance
of $134.5 million for the modernization of enterprises
and technical assistance of $15.5 million for strength-
ening of institutional infrastructure, studies and
expert services for the five project subsectors. The
project would aim to: (a) expedite policy and enter-
prise reforms at the regional level, leading to greater
autonomy for and accountability of enterprise manage-
ment, and encourage the municipal authorities to focus
their activities on supporting and guiding enterprises
rather than directly controlling them; (b) assist insti-
tutional development for strategic planning, systems
development and implementation, engineering and techni-
cal support services and human resource development and
This document has a restticteddistribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



- it -
redeployment; (c) improve subsectoral organization and
internal enterprise management and syetomss (d) modern-
ize and restructure enterprises, including the support
of high priority investments5 and (e) further strengthen
financial intermediaries.
Prolect Benefits
and Risks:          The acceleration under the project of policy and system
reforms, improved services of support institutions and
restructuring of enterprises would result in improvement
of subsectoral efficiency and performance. In addition,
the subprojects to be supported would meet economic
viability criteria and would contribute to higher
exports and efficient import substitution. There are
two main project riskss  (a) unanticipated and adverse
future macroeconomic developments and the cumbersome
process of coordination between the central and provin-
cial authorities could affect the pace of Implementation
of the agreed policy and enterprise reforms; and
(b) various activities envisaged under the project may
not be completed on time. However, given the Govern-
ment' s strong commitment to the reform process, institu-
tional arrangements made in Tianjin for project imple-
mentation and experience gained under an earlier Bank-
assisted industrial project in Tianjin, these risks are
unlikely to pose a serious threat to the success of the
project.



- 11.1 -
Total Project Costs                                   Local    E.elsn    TotatI
---- ($ million)  ----
Industrial investment            65.5      134.5    200.0
Technical assistance
& training                     6.5        15.5     22.0
Total Costs                22 72.0    150.0    222.0
Financint Plant
IBRD                                -      150.0    150.0
PPIs, enterprises and TMG        72.0          -     72.0
Total                      72.0       150.0    222.0
Estimated Dibursement.:
BankF      1994  1995  1996  1997   1998   1999   2000
-3------------------- ($ million) --------------------
Annual      5.0   9.5  28.5  52.5   35.5   11.0    8.0
Cumulative  5.0  14.5  43.0  95.5  131.0  142.0  150.0
Economic Rate
of Returns              Not applicable
la Tentative estimates inclusive of taxes, duties, and contingencies. Final
estimates would d pend on individual subproject cost estimates which PPIe
would prepare at ihe time of subproject appraisal.



- iv -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
TIANJIN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Pate No.
I. INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1
II.  TH INDUSTRIAL SECTOR IN CHINA . . . . . . . . . . .. . ..        3
A.  Background . . . . . . . . . . . ..    * . . . . . . . . . . .  3
B. Industrial Development Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . .      3
C. Bark Support to Industry . ..... . . .    ..... . .. . . ..   6
IIl.  THE-INDUS'LR1AL SECTOR IN TiANJIN . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
A.  Tianjin and its Industrial Sector  . . . . . . . . . . .    10
Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   * .   * * * * .  10
Structure and Performance of Industry  . . . . . . .    10
B. Development Strategies and Policies  . . . . . . . . . .     12
C. The Five Subsectors  ..................                      14
Enterprise and Subsector Policy Reforms  . . . . . .    14
Physical Restructuring of Subsectors--Issues and
Strategies . ... . ..  . ..  . . . . . .  . .  . . .  17
Development of Technological Infrastructure  . . . .    21
D.  Bank Role, Lessons Learned and Strategy  . . . . . . . .    21
IV* THE RJ;aCT    .    *ao         * * 0 ** 0                        3
A. Project Objectives   .   . .             . . ......          23
B. Project Components .t.. * ........ ***.                      23
Financial Assistance Component . . . . . . . . . . .    23
Technical Assistance ..... * ***.....                   24
C.  Project Cost and Financing . . . . . . . . . ..  . . . .    26
D.  Project Implementation Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . .    26
Role of the Tianjin Municipal Government (TIG) . . .    26
Role of Participating Financial Intermediaries (Plls)   27
E.  Environmental Impact . .*. .... ........... ......... ...   30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
China in June/July 1992. The mission comprised Z. Rhan (Task Manager),
N. Hughes (Senior Operations Officer), N. Lichtenstein (Senior Counsel),
N. Mathieu (Senior Economist), M. Pharwani (Senior Engineer) and C. Punsalan
(Senior Financial Officer). H. Sethi who was a member of the identification
and preappraisal missions also contributed to the preparation of this report.
The peer reviewers are Messrs. J. Gamba and R. Heath. The Acting Division
Chief is Mr. Z. Khan and the Director is Mr. S. J. Burki.



V. TIM            ................................                     32
A. Main Featires of the Loan  . . . . .....     ....               32
B.  Procuremeni .ad Disbursements  . . . . ..... .    .           33
C.  Reporting and Auditing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      35
D.  Benefits and Risks . . . . . .  .............                 35
VI.  AGRE    TAND RECOMNENDATION  .9.... . ...... *.                    37
ASUR
1. The Statement of the Tianjin Municipal Government on the
Development Program and Strategy for Machine Tools, Construction
Equipment, Electronics Components, Automotive Parts and
Electric Motors Subsectors ............ a......................     39
2. Economic and Enterprise Reforms in the Pive Subsectors
If in Tianjin . . . .  .  ......  ......  ......  ...  .......  .......  ........  49
3. Institutional Strengthening for Workers' Retraining and
RedeploymentinTianjin  .. . .*..........**                 00       56
4. Machine Tools Subsector  *0 o    ....            ....                59
5   Construction Machinery Subsector . ..............                   66
6. Automotive Parts Subsector . .. ..  . . .. . . .   . ..... . .       72
7. Electronics Components Subsector . . . *. . . . . . . . . . .        79
8. Electric Motors Subsector  *.000 0...00  ... v                       84
9. Institutional Infrastructure and its Development Program . . .       88
10. Terms of Reference of Studies/Project Implementation Work
of Consultants .       . . . . .. . . . . . .. . ..   * *  0 o .   0 ... 4    107
11. Project Implementation Schedule  . .. . ....... . . . '             112
12.  Key Monitoring Indicators  .....................                   113
13.  Project Implementation and Supervision Plan  . . . . . . . . .    114
14. China Investment Bank (CIB)  . ...............................      116
15.  Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) . . . . . . . .    124
16.  The Bank of Comunications  s(BCBO)..............                   133
17.  Estimated Disbursements  . . . ..       .......  . .. . . . . .    140
18.  Documents Available in the Project Pile  . . . . . . . . . . .    141
TABLES IN TEXT
3.1        Tianjin:  Industrial Output Trend  . . . . . . . . . . .      11
5.1        TIDP - Procurement Arrangements  . . ...... .    ... .        34



TIANJIN INDUSTRIAL DEELOPNMENT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1       Tianjin is one of China's three largest cities which have the status
of province. It has a relatively large and diversified industrial base.
Although its industrial output accounts for only 3 percent of the national
industrial output it is quite sizable in absolute amount--Y 72 billion
($15.2 billion) in 1990. In line vith the national policy, the Tianjin Muni-
cipal Government (TMG) is implementing a series of reforms to restructure the
industrial sector.  The Bank has already started supporting this program
through Loan 3022-CHA (February 1989) for the Tianjin Light Industry Project
(TLIP). TLIP is assisting T∂G in restructuring three priority subsectors of
the light industry sector through acceleration of economic and enterprise
reforms, improvement of internal enterprise organization and management Sys-
tems, physical restructuring of plants and strengthening of support institu-
tions. The overall progress on implementation of the project is satisfactory.
TMG has now prepared a second industrial restructuring project, viz., Tianjin
Industrial Development Project (TIDP) for Bank assistance. The proposed proj-
ect would help to accelerate and broaden the reforms initiated with TLIP and
extend Bank support for the restructuring of additional priority subsectors.
1.2      As part of project preparation, an in-depth study of the five sub-
sectors has been carried out by international consultants (financed under an
existing IDA credit--Credit No. 1664-CHA) in two phases. Phase I has estab-
lished Tinijin's comparative advantage in these subsectors based on selected
product groups and has proposed strategies and development programs. Phase II
provides implementation plans at the municipal, subsectoral and enterprise
level for these strategies and programs. Based on the findings and recommen-
dations of the studies, a development program and strategy have been prepared
by 11G for the five subsectors (Annex 1) and were discussed and agreed upon
with the government during project appraisal. Economic and enterprise reforms
are the focal point of the strategy and the proposed project would assist in
their implementation on two fronts. On the one side, the project would help
the government in carrying out subsector policy reforms (such as liberaliza-
tion of investment, production and pricing; improvements in the foreign trade
regime; increased labor mobility; social security and housing reforms; and
promotion of industries where Tianjin has a comparative advantage), which are
needed irrespective of the type of ownership of enterprises. On the other
side, a set of enterprise reforms would be pursued (such as corporatization,
improvements in the contract responsibility system, reorganization of subsec-
tors, introduction of modern management systems and procedures, and promotion
of joint ventures), vhich will make enterprises more efficient and profit-
making entities.
1.3       Some of the important elements in the above-mentioned economic and
enterprise reforms are: (a) OwnershiRs All beneficiary corporations under
TIDP will be shareholding companies and those meeting financial criteria and
conditions of the central government will also be allowed to issue shares to



the general public and employees; (b) Prices: About 95 percent of the prod-
ucts of the five subsectors are already outside mandatory planning, all the
remaining price controls--both mandatory and indicative--will be removed by
1995! and (c) Foreifn Trade: The goverment has recently liberalized the
eligibility requirements for export rights for products with high-technology
content; enterprises with exports of $1 million can now be given such rights
compared to the previous $3 million limit. Accordingly, most of the enter-
prises in the five subsectors will be able to export directly; (d) SurDlus
Labor: Almost 10,000 workers are expected to become surplus in the five sub-
sectors as a result of restructuring. These workers will be removed from the
enterprises (20 percent in 1993 and 40 percent in 1994 and 1995, respec-
tively); and (e) Subsector Reorganizations The present 81 enterprises in the
five subsectors will be reorganized into 21 corporations which will allow
economies of scale and specialization. Each corporation will be a separate
legal entity with its own profit and cost centers. Ten nonviable enterprises
will be closed and 22 product groups in which Tianjin does not have a compara-
tive advantage, will be discontinued.
1.4       The proposed Bank loan of $150 million would support the foreign
exchange needs of the project; $134.5 million as an industrial credit to be
onlent through three participating financial intermediaries (PFFs); viz., the
China Investment Bank (CIB), Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC)
and Bank of Communications (BOCOM), for technological restructuring of enter-
prises in the five subsectors and $15.5 million for technical assistance for
strengthening of support institutions, studies, expert services, and training.
The subprojects to be financed by the PFIs will be consistent with the Tianjin
government's strategies for the five subsectors and will also meet the invest-
ment criteria of the PF1s.



11. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR IN CHINA
A. Background
2.1       Industry is China's largest productive sector, accounting for nearly
halr of its gross domestic product (GDP) in 1990 and employing 17 percent of
the country's total labor force. About 104,000 state-owned enterprises gener-
ate 55 percent of total industrial output; most of the remainder (36 percent)
is produced by 1.7 million nonstate enterprises--primarily urban and rural
collectives, and township and village enterprises (TVEs). The state enter-
prises concentrate mainly on important raw materials, capital goods, and stra-
tegic commodities, while nonstate enterprises mainly produce downstream con-
sumer products. Gross industrial output, which amounted to Y 2,392.4 billion
($500.2 billion) in 1990, is shared almost equally by light and heavy indus-
tries. The gross value of industrial production increased rapidly between
1978 and 1990, at about 12 percent a year in real terms. During this period,
light industry registered a much faster average annual growth rate (13.9 per-
cent) than did heavy industry (10.3 percent).  Chinese manufactured exports
have also grown rapidly from around $9 billion in 1980 to about $46.2 billion
in 1990.
2.2       China's industrial development has been constrained by several
structural deficiencies that stemmed mainly from rigid economic planning and
past industrial strategies oriented towards self-sufficiency at the national
and regional levels. The most obvious deficiencies pertain to outdated tech-
nologies, institutional rigidities deriving in part from quota and price con-
trols, a distorted structure of prices, inadequate infrastructure and an
underdeveloped financial sector. These problems are reflected in the low pro-
ductivity of labor and low efficiency of resource use in Chinese plants. The
structure of industry also is skewed toward basic heavy industry. The empha-
sis on self-sufficiency at the regional level has led to a fragmented national
market, reduced domestic competition, and the suboptimal use of scarce skills
and resou.ces.  As a result, potential gains from economies of scale are often
missed. Institutional inflexibility, compounded by inadequate market integra-
tion, has provided little incentive for industrial enterprises to improve
managerial efficiency and product quality. The low prices of energy and basic
intermediates for industrial production also contribute to the inefficient use
of inputs. Investments in infrastructure, particularly for transportation and
telecommunications, have lagged behind those in industry. This disparity has
in turn been a major constraint on industrial development. The financial
markets are still in their infancy and until recently only provided limited
intermediation services for enterprises.
B. Industrial Development Stratetv
2.3       Since 1979, the Chinese Government has initiated changes in the
industrial structure and, as part of the ongoing economic reforms, has intro-
duced incentives and market mechanisms to improve economic efficiency. The
development strategy has emphasized modernizing existing equipment, developing
manufactured exports and more efficient light industry, and conserving mate-
rial and energy resources in industry. The reforms have focused mainly on
four areas: (i) prices--expansion of the role of market forces in price



-4-
determinations (ii) enterprises--strengthening of enterprise autonomy and
management accountability; (iii) trade--promotion of exports to earn foreign
exchange to finance the importation of modern technology and equipment; and
(iv) financial sector--enhancement of the scope and efficiency of financial
intermediation. However, given little international precedent or experience
in successful transition from centralized planning to an effective integration
of plan and market, these reforms continue to be a difficult process, requir-
ing caution, experimentation and repeated fine-tuning. Furthermore, the pro-
gress of reforms has varied from region to region and subsector to subsector;
the status of reforms in Tianjin is elaborated in Chapter III.
2.4       The price reforms are designed to reduce gradually the distortions
that cause allocative economic inefficiency, particularly by reducing the
scope for allocation of resources under mandatory planning and by allowing
market forces to play a greater role in price determinstion. At present, a
two-tier pricing system exists as a result of differences between the con-
trolled prices for quota production under the state all}cation plan and mar-
ket-related prices for output above plan targets. Since the start of the
economic reforms, the Government has allowed a growing portion of industrial
products to be sold at market prices outside the plan, and it has considerably
raised the price of major industrial inputs, including energy. While the
current transitory system is a significant improvement over the strict price
control of the past, distortions in relative prices and gaps between con-
trcolled market prices have a number of shortcomings: reduced allocative effi-
ciency, discrimination across producers and consumers, administrative complex-
ity, and creation of opportunities for corrupt practices and other distor-
tions. The Government's strategy is to continue reducing its administrative
control over pricing in parallel with gradual dismantling of annual production
planning and allocation.
2.5       Rapid increases in free market prices and costs of urban living in
1989 slowed the pace of price reforms in recent years. After the announcement
of major price reforms in May 1988, urban consumer prices, having risen by
15 percent in the first two quarters of that year, soared at an annual rate of
over 60 percent in the third quarter. These developments forced the COC to
rescind the proposed price reforms and initiate a major stabilization (auster-
ity) program. During the three-year audterity program, vhich could have
implied a significant retreat to strong price controls over some strategic
commodities, price reform remained a firm part of the Government's reform
agenda. Major adjustments of controlled prices for agricultural commodities
(soybeans, grain$ cotton, edible oils, energy inputs, coal, crude oil and
power) and transport (freight and passenger transport) were made during
1990-92. These adjustments are expected to create a more favorable environ-
ment for further price reform, including a gradual decontrol of prices and
continued enlargement of the share of total output allocated by markets.
2.6       Reforms have been introduced in the management arrangements and
ownership structure of enterprises with a view to improving the efficiency of
enterprises. The central theme of these reforms has been the decentralization
of economic decision-making, from the government to enterprises and from
higher government tiers to lower ones. Enterprises, whose main function had
been to carry out production mandates from the government before the reforms,
have thus been provided various incentives to operate with greater autonomy in



-5-
a more competitive business environment. As a consequence of these reforms,
Chinese enterprises have now become diverse in terms of ownership, size and
organizational and management arrangements. Many small state enterprises have
been converted to collective enterprises, and new rural collective enter-
prises, operated by TVEs, have proliferated in areas close to major cities.
The scope for privately-owned enterprises was expanded greatly by new regula-
tions in 1988, which eliminated ceilings on the number of employees, and
expanded the lines of business they can enter. New hybrid forms of enter-
prises based on domestic joint ventures among different bureaucratic jurisdic-
tions have also emerged, as a means of dealing with interregional trade and
investment barriers. As for the management arrangements of state enterprises,
significant changes have also been made in the degree of enterprise control
over their assets and profits. The state enterprise reforms introduced, among
other things, a system of contract management responsibility, a uniform tax
rate (55 percent) for many large enterprises, wage incentives for workers, and
higher profit retention by enterprises.
2.7       The economic environment over the next several years is expected to
be conducive to continued and rather accelerated experiments with enterprise
reforms. Such reforms, however, will continue to be graduall the step-by-step
process which has characterized China's successful reform efforts to date is
likely to continue. Main topics on the agenda include modification (in some
cases, phasing out) of the management contracting system for state enter-
prises, introduction of a system of uniform ta-ation, alternative forms of
enterprise ownership, separation of social (security) functions from commer-
cial enterprises, and the introduction and application of company and bank-
ruptcy legislation. In particular, the Chinese government has in recent years
been actively investigating theoretical and practical issues related to adapt-
ing a shareholding system to Chinese state enterprises, and is launching con-
trolled "joint stock" experiments at selected locations. In this connection,
an important change in the state investment system was initiated in early 1989
through the creation of state and local investment companies, which can pro-
vide equity-type funding for state enterprises. Until the recent past, all
state-sponsored investments for state enterprises had been wholly debt-
financed.1/ In 1992, the shareholding experiment was broadened beyond
Shanghai and Shenzhen and regulations were enacted extending the rights of
state enterprises into new areas such as price setting, planning, labor and
foreign exchange rights.
2.8       In this context, TMG has authorized, on an experimental basis, the
creation of shareholding companies in the five manufacturing subsectors under
the TIDP project. The majority of shares will be publicly owned, i.e., held
by the State Assets Administration Bureau of Tianjin. A board of directors
representing the shareholders will be established in each of the selected
enterprises and will be responsible for major corporate decisions. The above
experiments will be of two types: (i) enterprises with shareholders being
legal entities (limited liability companies) and (ii) enterprises with some of
1/ This practice Was an improvement over the preceding one of total grant
financing. However, total debt financing of newly formed companies fur-
ther complicated the ambiguity of enterprise ownership, and was also in
conflict with a norm of prudent financial management.



the shareholders being individuals including enterprise staff who may hold up
to 20 percent of capital stock (limited share companies).
2.9       In foreign trade, the main changes so far have involved a break-up
of the export and import monopolies. This has been done mainly through
limited decentralization of the export trade and the granting of direct trad-
ing rights to production enterprises whose exports are above $3 million a
year. A new round of foreign trade reforms has been put in place in 1991,
involving the abolition of export and import subsidies, and equalization of
retention ratios of foreign exchange earnings by enterprises. Transactions in
local foreign exchange adjustment centers (FEACe) have grown rapidly. Peri-
odic adjustments in the official exchange rate hav- been made to the point
that 1991 saw the introduction of a managed floating rate system.
2.10      The major financial sector refcrms includet  (i) formal establish-
ment of the People's Bank of China (PBC) as the country's central bank;
(ii) divestiture of PBC's commercial banking functions to independent special-
ized banks; (iii) creation of a few new banks and nonbank financial institu-
tions for various financial services; (iv) introduction of new financial
instruments and establishment of related financial markets; and (v) a gradual
rise in interest rates to stimulate economic use of capital and to promote
domestic resource mobilization. These reforms have led to considerable finan-
cial deepening despite some setbacks in the recent period of high inflation:
the ratio of the size of monetary assets (M2) to gross national production
increased from 37 percent in 1979 to 75 percent in 1987, and the figure for
1990 was 88 percent. Notwithstanding these advances, weaknesses remain. The
system remains overwhelmingly dominated by banks, in particular, the four spe-
cialized banks. Financial institutions have still to undergo substantial
institutional upgrading to function as effective intermediaries. There has
been a trend in the banking system of increasing portfolio arrears which needs
to be arrested. Regulation and supervision of the financial system needs
considerable strengthening as do the accounting and legal frameworks.
Interest rates also need to be unified. While recent reliance on administra-
tive mechanisms has enabled the government to regain control of inflation, in
the longer term, PBC needs to develop its indirect monetary policy tools.
C. Bank Support to Industry
2.11      The Bank's objectives in supporting China's industrial development
are to assist the Government in: (i) improving the policy framework for the
industrial sector as a whole; (ii) building sound institutions and practices
for subsector planning, project approval and implementation, and financial
intermediation; (iii) promoting and implementing technology upgrading, plant
restructuring and rehabilitation, and energy and material resource conserva-
tion in selected sectors at the national and provincial levels; and (iv) car-
rying out various reforms, particularly in the enterprise and financial sys-
tems. As the Bank's relationship with China has deepened, lending and sector
work have increasingly concentrated on the articulation and design of the spe-
cific policies, institutions and procedures, which are integral parts of the
reform effort.
2.12      The Bank Group's lending to the industrial sector in China, which
began in December 1982, comprises the following: (i) five loans/credits



- 7 -
totaling $945.6 million to CIB /I to develop it as a premier financial
intermediary providing term financing for small- and medium-sized enterprises
in a wide range of industrial subsectors; (ii) four loans/credits totaling
$394.3 million to the fertilizer industry 3I to support the building of new
fortilixer plant8, development of new phosphate mines, revamping of plants,
and strengthening of the institutional infrastructurel (iii) a loan of
$100 million for the Shanghai Machine Tool Project (Loan 2784-CHA) in FY87,
involving rehabilitation and modernization of the machine tool subsector in
Shanghai; (iv) a loan of $128 million for the Pharmaceuticals Project (Loan
2934-CHA) in FY88 to support the expansion of pharmaceutical production using
modern technologies and proper manufacturing practices; (v) a loan of
$154 million for the TLIP (Loan 3022-CHA) in FY89 to support the restructuring
of textile dyeing and finishing, pulp and paper manufacturing, and packaging
subsectors; (vi) a $20 million industry component of the Gansu Provincial
Project (Loan/Credit 2812/1793-CHA) in FY87 for modernization of the rural
industry bass; (vii) a loan of $50.0 million and a credit of SDR 45.1 million
($64.3 million equivalent) for the Rural Industrial Technology (SPARK) Project
(Loan/Credit 327412186-CHA) in FY90 to support the upgrading of standards and
technology for the dynamic TVEs, China's rapidly growing nonstate enterprises;
(viii) a loan of $150 million for the Shanghai Industrial Development Project
(Loan 3288-CHA) in FY91 to support restructuring and development programs in
four industrial subsectors--electrical apparatus, printing machinery, scien-
tific precision instruments, and electronic components; and (ix) a loan of
$82.7 million for the Regional Cement Industry Project (Loan 3443-CHA) in FY92
for the development of the cement industry. In addition, the Planning, Sup-
port and Special Studies Project (Credit 1835-CHA), approved in FY87, includes
components for long-term planning and strategic studies in several industrial
subsectors.
2.13      Physical implementation of most of the investment projects had pro-
ceeded generally on schedule until the initiation of the economic austerity
program in late 1989, when related local funding shortages began resulting in
delays in the implementation of several Bank-financed projects. Since late
1991, however, the implementing agencies have been taking steps to expedite
project implementation to catch up with the original schedule. GOC has given
assurances that the necessary funds would be made available for Bank-financed
projects. Disbursements of the above loans/credits, after some delays during
1990/91, have returned to a satisfactory level. Project Completion Reports
(PCRs) have been prepared for the first three CIB loan/credits and the Fertil-
izer Rehabilitation and Energy Saving Project.
2.14      The Bank's proposed future lending program in industry and finance
includes: (i) support for selected major industrial subsectors--chemicals,
21  The five CIB loans/credits ares Loan/Credit 2226/1313-CHA in FY83; Loan/
Credit 2434/1491-CHA in FY84; Loan/Credit 2659/1663-CHA in PY86; Loan/
Credit 2783/1763-CiA in PY87; and Loan 3075-CHA in FY89.
I/  The four fertilizer loans are:  Fertilizer Rehabilitation and Energy
Saving Project (Loan 2541-CHA) in FY85; Fertilizer Rationalization Proj-
ect (Loan 2838-CHA) in FY87; Phosphate Development Project (Loan 2958-
CHA) in PY88; AND Hubei Phosphate Project (Loan 3066-CHA) in PY89.



-8-
fertilizers, electronic¢, building materials, etc.--at the national and pro-
vincial level., within the framework of defined sector strategies including
broad-based restructuring; (ii) assistance to enterprises in undertaking key
investment projects in important industrial subsectors; and (iii) support for
developing the infrastructure for sound financial sector development, and for
consolidating the central banking function of PBC, and further support for CIB
and other financial intermediaries in the context of the overall financial
sector reform. The increasing devolution of responsibility for planning and
implementation from the center to the provinces has expanded the role of pro-
vincial authorities in industrial development. While the central government
rightly recentralized control of monetary policy as part of the austerity
program, there is little practical evidence of a reversal in the overall
trend. These developments in turn call for formulating a coherent national
strategy for key industrial subsectors and a consistent set of investment
priorities to be used as guides for provincial policies. The anticipated
series of provincial and subsector operations is designed to help the central
authorities and selected provinces articulate and Implement their new respon-
sibilities.
2.15      As a result of ongoing reforms, significant developments have taken
place in China in the financial and real sectors. However, many policy dis-
tortions and Institutional weaknesses still persist and will take time to
resolve. Consequently, the resource allocation efficiency of the financial
sector remains inadequate. While the efforts to further improve the policy
framework and to strengthen the institutional structure are continuing and the
Bank is playing an active role therein, assistance to priority sectors and
subsectors of the economy through credit operations is necessary and justified
until the financial sector gains the necessary capability for efficient
resource allocation.
2.16      The reform measures introduced in recent years have created new
opportunities for the Bank to help China in identifying and discussing reform-
related issues and experimenting with new systems. For example, the Bank has
produced several economic and sector studies on key reform issues; workshops
and symposiums on enterprise and related reform issues have been jointly spon-
sored by the Bank and the Government.
2.17      The International Finance Corporation's (IFC's) support for the
industrial sector has been limited mainly because, with only a few exceptions,
joint ventures have to earn their own foreign exchange to service foreign
exchange obligations. This provision has made it difficult for IFC to support
import-substituting joint ventures even though most potential partners in
China are interested in the domestic market. Since its first operation in
1985, IFC has provided a total of $43.0 million to China, all of it to the
industrial sector (equity participation of $3.0 million and loans of
$40.0 million). Its five investments include; (i) Guangzhou and Peugeot
Automobile Co., Ltd. (Investment No. 813, FY85); (ii) China Investment Co.,
Ltd. (Investment No. 974, FY87); (iii) Shenshen China Bicycles Co., Ltd.
(Investment No. 1020, FY87); (iv) Shenzhen Crown Electronics Co., Ltd.
(Investment No. 1066, FY88); and (v) Shenzhen Chronar Solar Energy Co.,, Ltd.
(Investment No. 1119, FY89).



- 9 -
2.18      Related to the above, the Bank Group has engaged in a dialogue with
the Government on the need to change the foreign exchange allocation and man-
agement system. The current system distorts investments and discourages
important import-substitution projects. The foreign exchange adjustment cen-
ters, established in recent years in select trade cities and provinces and
playing an increasingly important role (see para. 2.9), have the potential for
alleviating this constraint to a large extent.
2.19      In addition to Bank lending and IFC operations, the Bank's programs
for economic and sector work in industry and finance have provided the basis
for an active policy dialogue with the Government. Major topics for which
studies have been completed include state enterprise management and ownership
reforms, finance and investment, tax reform, industrial policies and struc-
tural changes, external trade and capital, tax reform, phosphate subsector
planning, and electronics. Ongoing and future studies will continue to
address such areas as enterprise and financial sector reforms, industrial
policies and restructuring for several subsectors (including electronics,
machine building and process equipment manufacturing). This work is increas-
ingly being carried out jointly with Chinese agencies.



- 10 -
II. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR IN TIANJIN
A. Tianlin and its Industrial Sector
Background
3.1       Tianjin, an industrial city at the confluence of the ancient Grand
Canal and the Hai River, which flows to the Gulf of Bohai, is China's third
largest city after Shanghai and Beijing. These three cities have the status
of province and are directly under the jurisdiction of the central government.
The city covers an area of 11,305 kI2, including the city itself, seven subur-
ban and maritime districts and five rural counties. The population of the
municipality as a whole was 8.7 million in 1990, with 4.5 million people liv-
ing in the city proper.
3.2       Tianjin holds a key place in the Chinese economy. Because of its
location, Tianjin is a major land and water communication pivot in China. The
two trunk lines of the Beijing-Shanghai Railway pass through Tianjin. The
port of Tianjin is the third largest in China. It has thus become a large
economic center serving Northern China.
3.3       Tianjin has a relatively large and diversified industrial base.  In
1990, its industrial output reached Y 71.7 billion (current price) or $15.2
billion (1990 price), which was nearly 3 percent of the national industrial
output. The share of light industry is above the national average: 55.8 per-
cent compared vith 49.5 percent for China (at 1980 price). State-owned enter-
prises still dominate Tianjin's industry, but their share in the city's gross
industrial output has declined from about 80 percent in the early 1980s to
about 68 percent in 1990. The total labor force employed in Tianjin's indus-
try in 1990 was nearly 1.5 million, of which about 0.9 million were in state-
ovned units and 0.4 million in collective units, the remainder in either joint
venture or private enterprises.
Structure and Performance of Industry
3.4       Tianjin's heavy industry covers a wide range of subsectors and, in
1990, it registered an output value of Y 23.3 billion (1980 price), accounting
for 44.2 percent of Tianjin's total GVIO. The main subsectors are: (i) the
machine building subsector (electric and nonelectric) which recorded an output
value of Y 6.6 billion in 1990 (28.3 percent of total heavy industry output
value); (ii) the chemical subsector, with Y 3.5 billion in 1990; (iii) metal-
lurgical subsector, Y 3.0 billion; and (iv) the transportation equipment sub-
sector, Y 1.8 billion.
3.5       In 1990, Tianjin's light industry achieved an output value of Y 28.5
billion (1980 price), accounting for 50.8 percent of the city's total indus-
trial output. Light industry in Tianjin produces a large variety of consumer
goods. The main subsectors are textiles and clothing (with an output value of
Y 6.6 billion in 1990, which was 23 percent of total output value of light
industry) and food processing. Other products include beverages and ciga-
rettes, paper and paper products, pharmaceuticals, bicycles, watches, TV sets,
etc.



- 11 -
3.6       Tianjin's industrial output grew at the rate of 10.2 percent per
annum at constant 1980 prices between 1980-90. Also both heavy and light
industries grew at about 10 percent per annum (Table 3.1). Tianjin manufac-
tures 17 percent of China's medium- and big-sized tractors, 5.3 percent of
automobiles, 2.5 percent of steel, 2 percent of electric motors, 17 percent of
bicycles and 5.4 percent of television sets. Its machine building industry
accounts for 4 percent of the total subsector output value of China. Its
electronic industry accounts for 5 percent of the nation's total output value.
Table 3.1: TIANJIN: INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT TREND
(Y million, 1980 prices)
Avg. annual
Outnut value              strowth ()
1980        1988        1990        1980-90
Gross output in industry           19,700      44,080     51,800          10.2
of which:
Heavy industry                      8,830      19,590     23,300          10.2
of which:
Machine building La               4,672       6,647      7,163           4.4
Transport equipment                 431       1,633      1,800          15.4
Construction equipment /L            25         116        116          16.6
Electronic equipment la_            438       2,072      2,927          20.9
Light industry                     10,870      24,490     28,500          10.1
of which:
Consumer electronics                 40         811        854          35.8
La Estimates for 1990.
Sources: Forty Years of Tianiin. 1949-1989, pp. 424-438; China Statistics
Yearbook. 1990, pp. 405-418; and Tian_in Plannina Commission (for
1990 data).
3.7       Exports of goods from Tianjin amounted to $1.8 billion in 1990 and
grow at an average of 1.6 percent per annum in US dollar terms, during
1980-90. While the leading export earners are textiles, garments, foodstuffs
and other light industry products, the export of machinery grew at 8.2 percent
per annum during the same period.
3.8       Despite its Impressive growth, Tianjin's industrial sector is con-
fronted with many problems. It is often characterized by lack of specializa-
tion, uneconomic size of operations, and inadequate management systems. Gen-
erally, the factory buildings are old, technology and equipment is outdated,
plant layouts are cumbersome, and the consumption of electrical and thermal
energy and raw materials is high.



- 12 -
B. Development Strategies and Policies
3.9       During the 1970s, especially during the Fifth Five-Year Plan
(1975-80), Tianjin developed the intermediate material subsectors necessary
for the expansion and diversification of its industry. In particular, prior-
ity was given to chemical and steel subsectors. Since the early 1980s, some
of the inefficient and obsolete production capacity in heavy industry was
converted to manufacture of light industrial goods. Considerable new capacity
was also added in the light industry sector, especially after the mid-1980. to
meet a fast-growing domeotic demand for durable consumer goods.
3.10      The development of the transportation, water and electricity sectors
was given priority in the mid-1980s. Substantial investments were made during
the Seventh Five-Year Plan to increase the supply of electricity and fresh
water. Also, incentives were provided to economize the use of these scarce
resources. Tariff rates for water were increased, and penalty rates estab-
lished for use of electricity above the industrial norms.
3.11      In the future, emphasis will still be given to low energy consuming
and technology-intensive industrial activities. During the Eighth Five-Year
Plan (1991-95), TMG Intends to make the best use of its local specific
resources--salt and petroleum--to undertake large chemical investment proj-
ects, and to make automotive and electronics leading sectors for the develop-
ment of its industry. Priority will be given to subsectors where Tianjin has
a comparative advantage, including textiles, consumer durable goods, machinery
and equipment, food processing, packaging, chemical processing, plastics and
garments. In each subsector, specific groups of products have been identified
with good development potential. Machine tools, construction equipment, auto-
motive parts, electric motors, and electronic components are listed among
them. Export of small electric motors and automotive parts will be also pro-
moted.
3.12      Tianjin considers industry to be its main engine of growth and
expects to gain a more important place in the economy of the country through
industrial development. It has already embarked on a selective program of
industrial restructuring which includes gradual enterprise reforms within the
national framework, strengthening of support institutions (i.e., R&D centers,
training institutes, etc.), technological modernization of enterprises and
inprovements in their organization and management systems. While progress is
being made on the restructuring of the industrial sector, TMG is conscious
that, for a balanced and efficient growth, it needs a comprehensive long-term
industrial development strategy and the preparatory work for this purpose is
already in progress, assisted by the Second Technical Cooperation Credit (TCC
II, Cr. 1664-CHA).
3.13      Tianjin has actively pursued enterprise and policy reforms in indus-
try, including the five subsectors of the proposed project (details in A
2). TMG has established economic corporations for most of the industrial
subsectors; these corporations provide a layer between industrial bureaus and
enterprises and thus some degree of autonomy and accountability to enter-
prises. There is little mandatory production planning; enterprises are gener-
ally subject to indicative planning. The Tianjin Planning Commission (TPC)
has the authority to approve projects costing less than Y 30 million for light



- 13 -
industry and Y 50 million for heavy industry; projects with costs of more than
these amounts are sent to the State Plamning Commission (SPC) or the State
Council for approval.
3.14      At present, controlled prices apply to 35 products and, indicative
price. to 18 productst all other products have market prices. In actual prac-
tice, products under indicative pricing are generally in surplus supply and
their prices are also market-determined. As regards the five subsectors of
the project, about 95 percent of the production is outside the national plan
and therefore the prices are set by market conditions.
3.15      Until mid-1992, direct export rights were given to enterprises
which, inter alia, could export or had potential to export at least $3 million
value per annum. This limit has now been reduced to $1 million for machinery
sad electronic products with high technology content, and $2 million for prod-
ucts of the same category with low technology content. Most products of TIDP
will have a $1 million limit. This would promote direct contact between the
manufacturers and foreign buyers and thus result in technology transfer,
prompt market response and efficient production planning by the Chinese enter-
prises. The government is also encouraging the use of foreign trading compa-
nies (FTCs) as export agencies whereby enterprises which do not have direct
export rights pay a commission to FTCs for their marketing services. This
arrangement allows enterprises to have direct contact with buyers and also
entitles them to retain most of the foreign exchange earned through exports.
Already, several products of the project's five subsectors, e.g., graders and
automotive parts, are directly exported by enterprises.
3.16      Foreign exchange retention schemes have been abolished for enter-
prises which export through FTC. (nonagency basis). They must now purchase
their foreign exchange at foreign exchange adjustment centers (FEACs). If the
enterprises were benefiting from direct export rights, they can keep 80 per-
cent of their foreign exchange earnings.
3.17      Almost all enterprises in Tianjin are subject to the contract
responsibility system. The Tianjin Bureau of Finance signs a contract for two
or three years. Tax payments are included in all contracts. During the
Eighth Five-Year Plan period, the enterprises are being submitted to more
performance targets than just the profit level. Yearly loan repayments are
specified sad new contracts have a duration of three to five years. New work-
ers in enterprises are governed by labor contracts.
3.18      The growth of financial institutions, including the arrival of BOCOM
in Tianjin, and the expansion of bank branches and subbranches has provided a
little more freedom to enterprises in the choice of banks for deposit and
credit operations. Some competition exists among financial intermediaries
which results in better service to enterprises.
3.19      In order to address the issue of surplus labor and the lack of labor
mobility, TMG has prepared a citywide housing reform plan which would be
implemented from the beginning of 1992. The plan provides for a compulsory
housing savings program for two thirds of city workers, housing bond acquisi-
tion for new rental housing, gradual increase of rent to "full cost" level by
the year 2000, and the sale of about 20 percent of housing over 10 years at



- 14 -
high discount. In addition, TMG has proposed to establish and support housing
rental compantes; cooperative societies to build housing which enterprise and
government support; and municipal, enterprise and individual level "housing
funds."
3.20      The city has pooled pension and unemployment insurance schemes at
the municipal level separately for the government, SOE, and collective sec-
tors. For health insurance, the municipality is preparing new measures to
pool major medical care insurance schemes in several districts. These mea-
sures are to be ready for implementation in 1993.
3.21      Despite significant progress, enterprise reforms need to be further
accelerated in Tianjin as in the rest of China. The regulatory, ownership and
management rc'vs of the government have to be separated in more distinct
terms. Enterprise management should be given full autonomy and made
accountable for corporate results. The relationship between economic corpora-
tions and constituent enterprises needs to be streamlined. The entry and exit
of enterprises has to be facilitated. The price structure has to be made
fully market-oriented. Enterprises must now use the more liberal rights to
export directly. The contract responsibility system needs to be overhauled,
preferably to be replaced by a transparent and uniform taxation system. The
financial system needs to be liberalized to provide more efficient service to
the industrial sector. Labor mobility has to be enhanced by accelerating
social security and housing reforms.
C. The Five Subsectors
3.22      The five subsectors included in the project are machine tools, con-
struction equipment, electronic components, automotive parts, and electric
motors. These subsectors are among the priority subsectors in 7MG's develop-
ment strategy (para. 3.11), and many of their products play a significant role
in the domestic market. During the preparation of the project, international
consultants have carried out an extensive analysis of strengths and weaknesses
of individual subsectors including market potential and comparative advantage
of their main products, and have made recommendations for their future devel-
opment strategy. The consultants' reports are available in project files.
Based on this work and inputs of Bank staff, subsector restructuring plans
focusing on (a) enterprise and subsector policy reforms and (b) subsector-
specific products and market strategies and organizational changes that would
be supported under the project have been agreed between the Bank staff and
TMG. The reforms and strategies are briefly described below.
BnterDrise and Subsector Policy Reforms
3.23      As mentioned earlier (para. 2.7), while the industrial sector
reforms introduced in China, including Tianjin, represent major policy initia-
tives, the process consists of a step-by-step approach supported by selective
experimentation. In order to provide further autonomy and accountability to
enterprises and to make them more responsive to market signals, additional
reforms are contemplated. In Tianjin, new measures are anticipated in all the
five subsectors and the pace of implementation of certain reforms is to be
accelerated. These reforms dealing with corporate governance, prices, domes-
tic competition, foreign trade, production and investment policies, taxation



- 15 -
and CRS, and labor mobility, including housing and social security, are
included in Tianjin government's development program and strategy (Annex 1)
for the five subsectors of this project, which were discussed in detail with
Bank staff during project preparation and appraisal, and which has been for-
mally adopted by Tianjin. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
TMG that it would take all steps necessary to implement the agreed development
program and strategy and exchange views with the Bank at least every six
months on its implementation. Details of the reforms are outlined below.
3.24      Shareholding Slatem. In order to promote experiments in sharehold-
Ing type companies, all beneficiary corporations under TIDP would have share
ownership. The beneficiary corporations which, on the basis of their past two
yeara' consolidated accounts, would have a minimum of 15 percent return on
equity (net income before taxes as percentage of equity), and a percentage of
net income (after taxes) to capital not less than a one-year bank deposit
rate, will become "limited share companies." Furthermore, whenever they can
meet necessary criteria and conditions, these corporations will also be
allowed to issue shares to employees and individual investors, according to
the new central government regulations. The shares of the corporations would
be listed at Shanghai, Shenzhen, or Tianjin (should it have its own stock
exchange) and the Tianjin government will seek central government approval for
this purpose. Other beneficiary corporations will also be shareholding compa-
nies but would be classified as "limited liability companies," which do not
issue publicly traded shares. Their shareholders would be typically the State
Asset Management Bureau, some other corporationslenterprises, and nonbanking
financial institutions. During project implementation, consultants will help
to reorganize the subsector structure into new corporations (paras. 3.41,
3.44, 3.48, 3.52 and 3.53). Tianjin has already prepared model charters for
these corporations which provide for a shareholder-type structure, based on
the new central government directives issued in 1992. The model charters and
related explanations and clarifications have been made available to the Bank,
and these have been discussed and agreed upon during appraisal.
3.25      Cross-regional ownership can be an appropriate solution whenever an
enterprise in Tianjin needs another enterprise to share the production of
parts and assembly, in order to achieve a high level of production, reduce
costs and improve competitive position. However, there are still difficulties
in persuading enterprises in other regions to invest in such an enterprise.
Nevertheless, TMG will try to establish initially at least one corporation
(most likely in the construction machinery subsector) with cross-regional
shareholding ownership on an experimental basis.
3.26      Prices and Competition.  Measures have been taken in recent years
toward freeing prices and production from mandatory and indicative planning in
the five subsectors (para. 3.14). However, further measures will be taken to
remove by 1995 indicative pricing and what remains of mandatory planning in
the five subsectors. In fact, indicative prices have already lost their sig-
nificance and actual prices are generally determined by market conditions in
the five subsectors.
3.27      Investment and Technoloav.  In the automotive sector, the Tianjin
government has now been given the authority to approve investments below Y 30
million, as in other subsectors. In the area of technology transfer, the five



- 16 -
subsectors will use effectively the services of the Tianjin International
Science and Technology Consulting Company, the Tianjin Foreign Investment
Advisory Center and other similar specialized agencies, to obtain information
and seek suitable foreign partners.
3.28      Poreljn Trade. With the new lower limit for direct export rights
(para. 3.15), most of the enterprises in the five subsectors would be able to
undertake direct exports. All other enterprises would be alloved to use FTCs
on an agency basis which would make possible direct contacts with foreign
buyers and retention of 80 percent of earned foreign exchange by these enter-
prises.
3.29      Taxes and Contract Responsibilit  System ICRS).  CRS has too many
performance indicators (which may include production, productivity, sales,
employment, profits, taxes, etc.) and it, thus, becomes difficult for the
enterprise management to maximize efficiency and profitability. In order to
obtain greater benefits from the system, TMG will streamline the contract
obligations by reducing the number of targets in new contracts to a few essen-
tial ones (viz., profits and debt servicing), and the contracts will not be
revised during implementation. In the longer term, tax remittances would be
completely separated from the CRS.
3.30      LaboL Mobilit=. Enterprises already have excess labor and its size
will increase after restructuring. About 10,000 workers are expected to
become surplus in the five subsectors as a result of restructuring. The sur-
plus labor needs to be redeployed, so that enterprises can operate with cost
efficiency and compete successfully in the international market. This is a
very complex issue and has many dimensions: need for information on subsector
labor surpluses and deficits, matching overall labor supply and demand at the
municipal level through the support of an employment center, and provision of
unemployment insurance. Some reforms in the area of labor mobility have been
already initiated in Tianjin for specific categories of labor (Ane  2)   TMG
will address the labor surplus issue in the five subsectors by developing the
existing employment center, improving unemployment insurance facilities, and
creating employment opportunities. It will also take the following steps:
(i) surplus workers would be identified and released from the subsectors
(20 percent in 1993, and 40 percent each in 1994 and 1995); (ii) employment
centers (including Tianjin Labor Service Company) would actively support the
released workers in identifying job opportunities in other enterprises/subsec-
torsi and (iii) financial support and training would be assured for the work-
ers to be redeployed. The Bank will provide technical assistance under the
project to strengthen the institutional framework for labor redeployment
(para. 4.10 and Annex 3).
3.31      Housint. ?MG is making the maximum use of the facilities provided
by the recent reforms undertaken in this area to promote individual housing
transactions and to separate the supply of housing services from the enter-
prise activities. With these objectives, and within the framework of the
municipal housing reforms, TMG will introduce experiments first in the five
subsectors under :he project. The reforms would include transferring housing
assets of enterprises, or their housing mangement rights, to the Tianjin
Housing and Trust Company in charge of housing, and offering to workers in the
five subsectors real opportunities to purchase dwellings. Tianjin would sub-



- 17 -
stantially complete by 1995 the implementation of housing reforms in the five
subsectors.
Physical Restructurin_ of Subsectors--Isoues and Strategis
3.32      The background information on the five subsectors of the project is
given in Annexes 4-8. The subsectors have a solid technical foundation for
further development and through support of specific restructuring measures
would be able to achieve increased efficiency and competitiveness and make a
demonstrative impact on other subsectors in industry. The main issues and
subsector specific strategies for restructuring are as follows:
3.33      Structure of Subsectors.  Most enterprises In the subsectors are
small in size in comparison to international standards and have fragmented
production which inhibits efficiency, quality and competitiveness. The orga-
nizational structure of the subsectors needs to be revamped to allow the con-
solidation of enterprises into viable commercial organizations. This would
help to achieve effective management control of the constituent enterprises,
and create a large critical mass to efficiently mobilize and allocate avail-
able financial resources.
3.34      Product and Market Concentration.  For historical reasons, capital
and resource allocation decisions have been made by the government as a part
of the planning process and without adequate consideration of commercial
potential. This has led to manufacture of a wide range of products with low
volumes and inadequate coverage of markets both domestic and export. Tianjin
needs to concentrate capital and other resources on those industrial activi-
ties where it has potential comparative advantage and the market viability of
products is clearly established. Success in building a strong domestic market
platform is a critical step toward developing comparative advantage in export
markets. In addition, the subsectors need to strengthen marketing, sales,
distribution and service capabilities.
3.35      Develoument and AbsorDtion of Technoloat.  Most enterprises have
relied heavily on centralized R&D institutes and, recently, on licensing
agreements for more sophisticated products. However, the enterprises have not
been able to develop capabilities for internal product development or full
utilization of imported technologies. The subsectors should be more selective
in acquiring modern technologies and should seek greater commitment from for-
eign partners to share new technology in the future. Internal organization
sad expertise needs to be developed to adapt, absorb and commercialize tech-
nologies in Tianjin.
3.36      Plant Facilities and Layout.  Most of the plant equipment is obso-
lete or outdated. Furthermore, plant facilities are, to a large extent,
poorly organized with inappropriate production layout and flow. These prob-
lems have to be resolved to bring operational efficiency and improve quality
and, thus, to enlarge market share.
3.37      Manasement Development.  Management skills are underdeveloped.
Enterprises lack an understanding of strategic planning and the need to adopt
flexible and innovative approaches to respond to market sinals and to make
prompt adjustments in operations. There is a need to establish appropriate



- 18 -
manaSement functions at all levels and to train managers in areas of product
and market development, cost control, production planning, quality control,
etc. Also, enterprise management information systems should be strengthened
to enable improved enterprise management.
3.38      While the above-mentioned issues are common to all five subsectors,
their magnitude varies. Also, each subsector has a different structure. The
following paragraphs provide summary information on each subsector and main
elements of Tianjin government's restructuring strategies (Annex 1).
3.39      Machine Tools.  The machine tools subsector represents one of
Tianjin's key industrial subsectors under the Tianjin Machinery Industry
Bureau (THIB). It is organized into five major product groups and, in 1991,
consisted of 16 enterprises with approximately 15,300 employees and total
sales of Y 245 million. Tianjin's share of the domestic machine tools market
has been stable at about 6 percent, but its share is much higher for certain
products such as hydraulic presses for which Tiarnjin is a domestic market
leader. The total value of exports in 1991 was Y 3.6 million ($0.69 million).
3.40      The restructuring strategy for Tianjin's machine tool subsector
focuses on further development of hydraulic presses in which Tianjin has a
strong position and good future prospects. Development of other products such
as gear-cutting equipment and machining centers would be undertaken in joint
collaboration and technology relationships with foreign manufacturers to
upgrade technologies, to provide Tianjin access to export markets and to
ensure achievement of economies of scale. The producers of selected tools and
accessories would continue to solidify their position. Uneconomical products
such as vertical spindle grinders, large lathes, and boring and radial
machines will be phased out by December 1994. Nonrelated products (e.g.,
valves, pumps, and micro motors) have already been moved to other subsectors.
The restructuring of the subsector would also include consolidation and
upgrading of manufacturing operations to reduce cost, improve quality, phase
out nonessential facilities and reduce inventories.
3.41      The present subsector organization, which includes 16 state-owned
enterprises managed by THIB, would be restructured, into two independent and
specialized corporations, one each for machine tools and accessories. As a
part of this organizational restructuring, the weaker pla:.s and inefficient
workshops would be divested or phased out by December 1994.
3.42      Construction Equigment.  In 1991, the construction equipment sub-
sector consisted of 11 enterprises with about 11,000 employees and Y 290 mil-
lion in sales. The subsector is organized under TMIB. Tianjin is among the
leading maufacturers of graders in China, with a market share of over 80 per-
cent. Overall, the subsector in Tianjin is more productive than the rest of
the country as measured by output value per employee. Nevertheless, the sub-
sector still faces strong challenges to its domestic position.
3.43      Tianjin's construction equipment subsector has a strong base for
improving its position. Tianjin's leadership position in motor graders can be
maintained and production of crawler dozers can be further developed through
rapid diffusion of imported technology to a full line product program and the
expansion of capacity to reach economy of scale. As regards forklifts and



- 19 -
related diesel engines, Tianjin would plan their development in joint collabo-
ration or technology-transfer agreements with foreign reputed manufacturers.
The manufacture of other products such as freight elevators, heat exchangers,
hoists, lifts and gearbox repairs would be discontinued by December 1994.
Tianjin would also develop mutually complementary marketing arrangements with
other national manufacturers so as to be in a position to offer a wider prod-
uct range.
3.44      In order to focus subsector efforts on viable investment productc, a
new corporation would be formed from the enterprises engaged in earthmoving
equipment, forklift trucks and diesel engines. The new corporation would be
responsible for development, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and manage-
ment functions related to the products of the former enterprises. It would
allow greater productivity, lower manufacturing costs, improved product qual-
ity and better foreign market prospects.
3.45      Electronic Components.  The subsector is under the Tianjin Electron-
ics and Instruments Administration Bureau which has 198 enterprises and about
100,000 employees. The enterprises are organized into 40 group companies or
corporations. The 12 enterprises producing passive components employ about
20*000 persons. In 1991, the total sales value of the passive components
subsector was Y 145 million. Despite its relatively modest market share,
Tianjiln's passive component subsector ranks fourth among Chinese centers that
produce passive components. Nevertheless, Tianjin still has low output volume
by international standards. The market pattern varies widely from one product
to the other. For mature products such as fixed resistors and aluminum capa-
citors, 20-30 percent of sales is made within Tianjin's electronic industry
itself, another 40-50 percent is sold to the domestic market outside Tianjin
und the remaining 25-40 percent is exported.
3.46      The future development of passive components will be determined by
the growth in the electronic industry in China and the ability of producers to
compete in domestic market as the national industry restructures and consoli-
dates over the coming decade. It is, however, obvious that Tianjin has to
increase its share of the domestic market through restructuring the subsector
and, thus, to achieve economy of scale and a competitive position among the
major manufacturers.
3.47      Within the passive components, Tianjin would focus on components
such as capacitors and resistors where it is a significant domestic producer.
Tianjin also proposes to establish the technological foundation for surface
mounted chip-type capacitors and resistors. These products would be upgraded
in terms of product and process technology and their capacity raised to eco-
nomic scale. Efforts would be made to raise domestic market share to at least
10 percent.
3.48      The enterprises in the subsector are loose administrative coalitions
and lack full financial or management control of their constituent enter-
prises. In order to achieve greater competitive advantage and economy of
scale, an organizational restructuring of the subsector would be carried out
in which all enterprises producing capacitors and resistors would be merged
into two separate corporations, one for each of the product groups. Enter-



- 20 -
prises that are nonviable and cannot be restructured have been identified, and
will be closed by December 1994.
3.49      Automotive Parts.  The Tianjin automotive parts subsector consists
of 56 enterprises producing a range of automotive parts and components [39
enterprises under the Tianjin Auto Industry Corporation (TAIC) and 17 small
enterprises under TMG1.  TAIC has been designated by the national government
as a center for manufacturing and assembling mini-vehicles. The Tianjin auto-
motive industry has experienced steady growth during the 1980s. The total
production value of the industry increased at 16 percent per year between 1984
and 1990. Employment, production and exports of the automotive industry in
Tianjin were about 7 percent, 8 percent and 3 percent, respectively, of the
national total.
3.50      Like the national industry, Tianjin's automotive sector is frag-
mented and includes enterprises with small production volumes, high cost of
manufacture, and low productivity. Less emphasis has been placed on develop-
ing components which would meet world standards and quality. Most of the
Tianjin components do not have a strong position in the China market. About
two thirds of the components manufactured in Tianjin are sold internally to
TAIC. There is a strong need to build foreign technical relationships for new
product and process technologies, as it would help to enhance the quality,
raise output volumes, and increase efficiency.
3.51      In order to improve the performance of the subsector, an innovative
restructuring approach and strategy have been developed to restructure the
subsector along the lines of automotive parts subsystems rather than the indi-
vidual products pursued at present. Tianjin would concentrate on potential
subsystems such as drive train and auto-electric parts. These subsystems
would be developed to provide Tianjin with capability to supply automotive
parts at the national level and to leverage the expanded domestic position in
foreign markets. Auto parts in which Tianjin does not have comparative advan-
tage have been identified; their production would be discontinued and the
concerned enterprises would be closed by December 31, 1994.
3.52      As regards the subsector organization, the enterprises under TAIC
are constrained by their major role of satisfying TAIC needs and thereby
remaining small and locally oriented. This structure would be changed to one
that would focus on closely interrelated product and process technologies and
interrelated domestic and export markets. Under the new system, 13 indepen-
dent corporations would be created which will focus on manufacture of subsys-
tems. The new organization structure would induce economy of scale in all
functions.  Each subsystem corporation would oecome the center of product
excellence within the subsector and, thereby, develop recognition in markets
provided by auto manufacturers and parts dealers.
3.53      Electric Motors.  Tianjin's electric motor subsector is relatively
small, consisting of four enterprises, but dominated by one large enterprise.
It employs about 3,000 persons and has a sales revenue of about Y 70 million.
The subsector has exported 20-30 percent of the production value to Southeast
Asian markets. The subsector is, however, characterized by low economies of
scale, outdated equipment, low productivity, obsolete product design and lack
of a full line program. The situation also holds true for the country as a



- 21 -
whole. Tianjin, therefore, plans to orient its products to the full range of
small motors, consolidate and upgrade its production, extend its domestic mar-
ket, and solidify its exports. The development program has been established
by consultants to meet these objectives. As a part of this program, the pres-
ent lead company in the subsector will form a joint venture with a leading
international manufacturer and would cease to exist in its present form.
Development of Technological Infrastructure
3.54      All the subsectors have their own research and design institutes and
vocational trainin8 schools (Annex 9). They function under the concerned
industrial bureaus or the sectoral corporations. These institutes cannot
provide the desired service because of lack of modern equipment including
computer hardware and software, testing equipment and teaching aids and facil-
ities. They have limited contacts with similar institutions in developed
countries and it is, therefore, difficult for them to keep up with the latest
technological developments abroad. Subsector enterprises themselves have not
given sufficient attention to the importance of R&D. The auto parts industry,
in particular, has lagged behind and it needs to substantially strengthen its
R&D center. The electronics subsector would need to establish a technical
center in which the technological foundation for surface-mounted technology
(SET) products can be laid and the development of other electronics products
can be undertaken. Machine tools and construction machinery subsectors also
need to strengthen R&D to develop and assimilate new technologies. The devel-
opment program and strategy aim at establishing technical centers within each
corporation and strengthening training schools through the import of necessary
equipment and software. The techbical centers would provide demand-driven
product development, systems engineering and other related services aimed at
improving product design and operational efficiency of the subsector corpora-
tions.
D. Bank Role. Lessons Learned and Strateav
3.55      In line with the Bank strategy for the industrial sector in China,
the proposed project has been designed to deepen enterprise reforms and to
restructure industry in Tianjin with the objective of improving its efficiency
and competitiveness both in domestic and international markets. A develo;iment
strategy and progrsm for specific subsectors have been prepared to achieve the
above objective, and reflect extensive preparatory work in which the Bank has
played a major role.
3.56      International consultants have carried out comprehensive studies of
the selected subsectors. The studies have helped to determine the comparative
advantage of key products in each subsector and recommended restructuring
measures that would lead to economies of scale, product specialization, new
marketing strategies, phasing out of nonviable products, reorganization of the
subsectors, improvements in enterprise organization and management systems,
and strengthening of institutional infrastructure. The Bank has considerable
experience in industrial restructuring based on its earlier work in China and
other countries and has, thus, been able to provide close guidance to consul-
tants in developing appropriate programs and strategies. Furthermore, a very
constructive dialogue initiated with TMG on this subject under TLIP has pro-
vided a good foundation for advancing reforms by adopting new measures and



- 22 -
undertaking new experiments in the industrial sector in Ti.njin. These mea-
sures and experiments go far beyond those initiated under TLIP.
3.57      The overall implementation of TLIP is satisfactory:  most of the
policy and enterprise reforms included in the project have been carried out by
the Tianjin government. The credit line component of the project has been
fully committed. Institutional strengthening and consultants' studies under
the technical assistance component have been substantially completed. The
project has, however, faced certain difficulties during implementation. Sub-
projects requiring ICB have been slow to implement because of lack of experi-
ence of CIB (Tianjin Branch) and enterprises in these procedures. A similar
problem was faced in the selection of consultants. However, the experience
gained under TLIP would be beneficial in alleviating such problems in the
future, particularly for TIDP. Two large subprojects are facing cost overruns
because of prolonged time taken in preparation and an unusually high increase
in the cost of imported equipment. In the future, PFIs will need to prepare
cost estimates more carefully and, during the subproject review process, Bank
staff will ensure that the cost estimates are realistic and that adequate
contingency provisions have been made. Foreign training of staff under TLIP
has been slow, mainly because of their lack of proficiency in English or other
foreign languages. TIDP would therefore put greater emphasis on training
within China with the help of foreign experts.
3.58      During the implementation of TIDP, the Bank will maintain close
dialogue with TMG to ensure continuous progress in economic and enterprise
reforms. It will also ensure that the Bank loan proceeds will be used for
modernization and technical restructuring of enterprises and strengthening of
institutional infrastructure in accordance with the development program and
strategy for the five subsectors. This would be pursued through regular
supervision missions, review of subprojects to be financed by PFIs under the
Bank loan, and detailed periodic reporting by the Tianjin government and PPIs
(para. 5.9).  In addition, international consultants will be engaged under the
technical assistance component to assist in project implementation, with par-
ticular focus on physical restructuring of subsectors and introduction of
modern management systems and practices (para. 4.8). (The project implementa-
tion and supervision plans are given in Annex 13.)



- 23 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives
4.1       The proposed project forms part of the Bank's overall effort to
support the implementation of the GOC's program of industrial restructuring.
The project will focus on five important industrial subsectors in Tianjin,
viz. machine tools, construction equipment, auto parts, electronic components,
and electric motors, that have been given high priority for development by the
municipal government in the 1990s. It would assist the implementation of the
Tianjin government's development program and strategy for the above subsectors
and would have the following specific objectives:
(a) acceleration of policy and enterprise reforms in the selected sub-
sectors;
(b) modernization and restructuring of subsectoral enterprises based on
economic criteria and commercial viability;
(c) strengthening of institutional infrastructure for strategic plan-
ning, systems development and implementation, engineering and tech-
nical support services, and human resource development and redeploy-
ment;
(d)  organizational restructuring and improvement of internal enterprise
management and systems; and
(e) diversification and strengthening of the financial intermediation
process.
B. Proiect Components
4.2       The project will have two main components:
(a) financial assistance for the technological restructuring of enter-
prises in the five subsectors; and
(b) technical assistance for the overall subsector restructuring pro-
grams including the strengthening of institutional infrastructure in
Tianj in.
The description of two components is as follows.
Financial Assistance Component
4.3       The project will provide financial assistance of $134.5 million out
of the proposed IBRD loan to meet the foreign currency requirements of the
technological restructuring of enterprises in five subsectors. The funds
would be onlent through financial intermediaries, which would be responsible
for the appraisal and assessment of overall viability of individual subproj-
ects. At present, there are 16 subprojects in the pipeline that are proposed
to be financed under TIDP. In the machine tools subsector, subprojects will



- 24 -
include further development of hydraulic presses, gear-cutting machines, and
machining centers; the latter two to be considered for assistance provided the
sponsoring enterprises obtains foreign technical collaboration. As regards
the construction equiRment subsector, crawler dozers and motor graders have
been identified for financial assistance so as to improve the product-mix and
achieve economies of scale. A few other products would also be eligible for
assistance if Tianjin enterprises develop joint ventures and/or technical
collaborations with leading international manufacturers. In the electronics
subsector, subprojects will aim at improvements in product and process tech-
nology and economy of scale in production of capacitors and resistors. Finan-
cial assistance will also be provided to the auto garts subsector for subproj-
ects belonging to two priority subsystems, viz. drive train (including clutch,
gearbox, propeller, shaft, differential, rear axle, wheel break drums, and
suspension components) and auto-electrical subsystem. Only those products in
the above subsystems will be included in the subprojects where economies of
scale and potential domestic and international markets will give comparative
advantage to Tianjin enterprises. In the electric motors subsector, there is
only one subproject for improving quality and producing a full range of small
motors.
4.4       The line of credit will be used by borrowing enterprises to import
machinery and equipment and to finance incremental working capital (i.e.,
imported inputs) and interest during construction on loans in foreign
exchange. PFIs would ensure that (a) all subprojects to be financed under
TIDP are consistent with the development program and strategy of the Tianjin
government and its own investment criteria which include a minimum ERR and PRR
of 12 percent, (b) the subproject snd sponsoring enterprise/factory are in
compliance with environmental control guidelines (para. 4.29), (c) sub-
borrowers shall be corporations established pursuant to the organizational
restructuring of subsectors as agreed between the Bank and the Tianjin munici-
pality and with charters acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.24) and (d) such
enterprises would have a satisfactory projected financial position, in partic-
ular a debt-service coverage of at least 1.5 times, a current ratio of at
least 1.5:1 and a long-term debt/equity ratio of no more than 70:30. The
subprojects in the pipeline are subject to change if PFIs' detailed analysis
shows them not to be viable or, as a result of changes in the plans of speci-
fic enterprises, they are no longer suitable for financing.
4.5       Although the project is primarily intended to assist the five iden-
tified subsectors, PPIs will be allowed the flexibility to finance subprojects
in other subsectors to be agreed between the Bank and the Tianjin government
on the basis of studies and development strategies to be prepared by the
municipality. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from PPls on the
above eligibility and investment criteria for assisting enterprises under the
industrial credit component of the project.
Technical Assistance
4.6       Technical assistance of $15.5 million will be provided out of the
proposed IBRD loan to finance equipment, computer hardware and software,
advisory and consultancy services, staff training, studies, etc., for overall
subsector restructuring and strengthening of PPIs, as described in the follow-
ing paragraphs. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from IMG that



- 25 -
it will carry out the technical assistance component in accordance with the
program to be agreed with the Bank.
4.7       Develoument of Technolozical Infrastructure.  The project will help
to strengthen the design and research activities and vocational training in
the five subsectors to implement the Tianjin government's strategy for the
development of technological infrastructure (pars. 3.54). Detailed informa-
tion on the current status of all the support institutions and the program for
their development to be supported by project technical assistance is given in
Annex 9. The equipment, consulting services and training to be provided under
this component will help the beneficiaries to upgrade their research and test-
ing facilities and teaching sids, and enable them to increase their contacts
with counterpart institutions in developed countries, thereby increasing their
exposure to latest technological developments. A sum of $11.8 million has
been provided for this technical assistance component. During negotiations,
understandings were reached with TMG on the necessary details.
4.8       Proiect Imnlementation Support. Consultant services will be
required to assist in the implementation of the project, with particular focus
on organizational restructuring, production consolidation, management informa-
tion systems, financial and cost accounting, and industrial engineering and
operational effectiveness in the five subsectors. A sum of $2.5 million out
of the technical assistance funds will be used to finance consultant services.
Detailed terms of reference (TOR) for the work which would be carried out by
internationally recruited consultants are given in Annex 10. The TOR were
discussed and agreed to with TtG during project appraisal and were confirmed
during negotiations [see para. 6.3(b)]. In view of the importance of the
consultants' role in the successful implementation of subsectoral restructur-
ing program, the appointment of consultants will be a condition of loan effec-
tiveness.
4.9       Trainint of Enterprise Manaaement and Staff.  The training of senior
managers and staff of enterprises in modern policies, strategies and methodol-
ogies relating to investment production, marketing and personnel matters is
essential. Broad outlines for such training have been established with the
assistance of consultants engaged to carry out subsector studies. Detailed
training programs to be organized within China and abroad will be developed by
consultants who will assist in project implementation. A sum of $700,000 out
of the project's techneical assistance funds has been allocated for training of
enterprise managers and staff; $500,000 to be used to engage foreign experts
to organize seminars in China in the areas of production planning and control,
human resource management, finance, marketing and sales, operations and inven-
tory management, quality control, and foreign technical relations and trade;
and another $200,000 for foreign training. About 250 trainees will partici-
pate in 3-4-week seminars within China (seven seminars with 30-40 participants
each) and about 15 trainees will go abroad for about two months each. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that TMG will furnish to the Bank for
approval, by October 31 each year, a 12-month program for local and overseas
training to be financed under the project.
4.10      Strenathenint of Institutional Framework for Labor Develonment.
There are several organizations in Tianjin that assist in the redeployment of
surplus workers. These include employment centers (including Tianjin Labor



- 26 -
Service Company), an unemployment insurance scheme and several training cen-
ters. The role of these organizations needs to be widened and made more
effective to cope with surplus labor in the industrial sector in Tianjin,
including the five subsectors of TIDP. In order to strengthen the above
institutional framework, technical assistance of $300,000 will be provided as
outlined in Annex 3. The main focus of technical assistance will be on the
Tianjin Labor Bureau and the Labor Service Company. Consultants will help to
improve their organization, systems and procedures; their managers and senior
staff will make study tours of a few employment centers abroad; and computer
equipment will be procured to strengthen the database for unemployed workers,
their retraining needs, and employment opportunities.
4.11      Strenathening of PFIs.  For staff of the PPIs, $125,000 would be
allocated for training in project identification, appraisal and supervision.
PFIs' project staff would attend a four-week course to be offered by foreign
consultants in Tianjin at the beginning of project implementation and once
again 18 months later. It is expected that about 25 staff would attend each
course. In addition, $75,000 would be allocated for specialized training
abroad for PFIs' staff. During negotiations, an assurance was obtained from
PPIs that staff training would be carried out in accordance with a training
program agreed with the Bank.
C. Proiect Cost and Financing
4.12      The main component of the project is the restructuring of enter-
prises which will be financed through a credit line of $134.5 million to PPIs.
The cost of this component will be the sum total of individual subproject
costs that will be estimated by PFIs at the time of subproject appraisal.
Consequently, the cost of this main component cannot be estimated accurately
at this stage. However, on the basis of past ratios of foreign and local
currency cost components in such subprojects, the total cost of the project
including incremental working capital is estimated at about $222 million equi-
valent. The total cost of the technical assistance component is estimated at
about $22 million of which $15.5 million would be in foreign exchange.
4.13      The proposed Bank loan will meet the foreign currency requirements
of $150 million. Local currency requirements for technological restructuring
would be financed by PPIs, other Chinese banks and enterprises' own resources.
The Tianjin government will provide the necessary local currency funds for the
technical assistance component of the project.
D. Proiect Implementation Arrangements
Role of the Tianiin Municival Government (T1G)
4.14      TMG, CIB, ICBC and BOCOM (Tianjin) will be responsible for overall
project implementation. TMG, besides carrying out economic and system reforms
as outlined in the development program and strategy, will coordinate and moni-
tor all project-related activities. Tianjin has established a high-level task
force headed by a Vice Mayor for industrial restructuring. It comprises
senior officials from the Tianjin Finance Bureau, Tianjin Economic Commission,
Tianjin Machinery Industry Bureau, Tianjin Electronics Bureau, Tianjin Auto
Industry Corporation, Industry Department of TPC, PCBC, CIB, ICBC and BOCOM.



- 27 -
This task force vill be maintained and will be supported by the Tianjin World
Bank Loan Office, a project implementation unit originally established for
TLIP. This office, which has a full-time staff of 15, vill be responsible,
inter alia, for follow-up on (a) implementation of the development program and
strategy for the five subsectors; (b) implementation of the technical assis-
tance for support institutions; and (c) consultants' work for the implementa-
tion of the project. The office will also liaise on a regular basis with the
concerned municipal government departments, central government institutions,
CIB, ICBC, BOCOM and the Bank. It will prepare six-monthly reports on project
implementation together with PFFI (para. 5.9). During negotiations, assur-
ances were obtained from the Tianjin government on the maintenance of the
existing task force and the above office with competent staff in adequate
numbers, and with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank. The
expertise required for supervision would involve mechanical and electrical
engineers for the review of subloans and ICB procurement, as well as financial
analysts/operation officers for subproject review and general supervision. It
is expected that this would involve 8 staff-weeks (SW) in FY94, 12 SW in FY95,
16 SW in FY96 and 11 SW in FY97. A project implementation and supervision
plan is given in Annex 13.
Role of Participating Filnancial Intermediaries (PFls)
4.15      Three financial intermediaries, viz., CIB, ICBC and BOCOM, will
onlend the Bank loan proceeds to subprojects in the five subsectors. They
will also be responsible for the appraisal and supervision of subprojects. A
brief write-up on these intermediaries is given in the following paragraphs
(details in Annexes 14-16).
4.16      China Investment Bank (CIB) commenced operations in 1981 as a devel-
opment bank financing mainly investment projects in the industrial sector.
While CIB is under the supervision of MOF, it retains close links to the
People's Construction Bank of China (PCBC) and many of its senior staff are
ex-PCBC staff.  CIB has 31 branches and 28 subbranches.  Although some degree
of lending authority is delegated to branches, decisions on large projects are
taken at the Read Office in Beijing.  CIB's investment priorities and policies
are defined in its Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures and its
Development Strategy Statement. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
from CIB that it will exchange views with the Bank on any proposal to modify
its charter or these statements.
4.17      Since 1982, CIB has received five loans from the Bank, has been the
sole financial intermediary (FI) under the TLIP, and was one of the several
FIs for the SPARK Project and Shanghai Industrial Development Project. At the
end of 1991, CIB had total assets of Y 14.7 billion and a total long-term loan
portfolio of Y 8.2 billion. CIB's lending activities have declined since
1989, reflecting the efforts of the government's austerity program that con-
tinued from late 1988 to 1991. CIB also had difficulties in mobilizing for-
eign currency resources after Tiananmen events of June 1989. Its loan
arrears, though still relatively small, increased from 2.5 percent of the
total portfolio in 1990 to 3.2 percent in 1991, which is partly the result of
a conservative policy of CIB's management on loan rescheduling. CIB's overall
loan collection rate was also low at 75 percent in 1991. CIB needs to make
more concerted efforts to improve its collection performance. During negotia-



- 28 -
tions, understandings were reached with CID that before submission of its
first subproject to the Bank, CIB wills (a) revise its policy statement to
include a loan recovery target of 90 percent of loan repayments due; and (b)
submit a plan satisfactory to the Bank for reaching the above target, includ-
ing projected loan recovery percentages for 1993-95. Furthermore, in the
context of supervision of CIB I-V and new operations, including the proposed
assistance for flnancial institutions' development in China, the Bank is
engaged in an active dialogue with the government and CIB on the latter's
future role, operational strategy, and resources.
4.18      CIS has stayed within agreed prudential limits on debtsequity and
debt and interest service coverage. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that it would maintain a maximum long-term debttequity ratio of 5:1
as provided In CID V. As required under CIB V, CIB is increasing provisions
for doubtful loans so as to reach 2 percent of the total portfolio at the end
of 1992. Although increased provisions for bad debts have reduced CIB's prof-
itability in recent years, profits are expected to increase in 1993 and there-
after, with the return on equity reaching 6 percent by 1995.
4.19      CIB's Tianjin branch was one of its earliest branches and its staff
have gained significant experience and expertise in project appraisal and
supervision. As of December 31, 1991, the Tianjin branch had approved 71
Bank-financed subproject. under the five CIB loans for a total amount of $72
million in foreign currency and Y 154 million in local currency. Of the 71
subprojects, 29 have been completed with the subloan fully repaid, 38 are
operating and repayments are satisfactory, and four are still under construc-
tion. Under TLIP, 15 subprojects are being financed for a total of $141 mil-
lion in foreign currency and Y 280 million in local currency. The performance
of the Tianjin branch and of its subprojects has been satisfactory.
4.20      Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) was founded as a
spinoff of two departments of PBC. Its top echelon includes a President and
four Executive Vice-Presidents with 20 major departments at the head office.
At the end of 1991, it was the largest state-owned commercial bank with total
assets of Y 1,117.5 bllnion ($203.2 billion) and net worth of Y 48.0 billion
($8.7 billion). It accounts for nearly half of the loans and deposits in
China's financial sector. It has the largest number of branches (over 30,000)
and employs over 500,000 people. Its Shanghai branch is a participant in the
Bank's Shanghai Industrial Development Project.  ICBC's Tianjin Municipal
Branch (TMB) would be implementing its participation under TIDP.
4.21      The head office of ICBC is involved mainly in policy formulation and
overall supervision of branch operations. Lending operations are fairly
decentralized in its provincial and regional branches, down to the district
subbranch level with varying delegated authorities. It has prudent financial
policies which should promote a diversified portfolio, e.g., exposure limits
on Industrial sectors (30 percent of loan portfolio) and single borrower
(10 percent of equity), and maximum project size of up to Y 2 billion, maximum
debt/equity ratio (4:1) for project financing, minimum financial rate of
return (15 percent) and positive current ratio and debt service coverage of
eligible projects. It "matches" its uses and sources of funds in terms of
interest rates, maturities, and currencies.



- 29 -
4.22      ICBC has received a credit line of $100 million from ADS.  To help
implement ICBC's program to modify, upgrade, and modernize its accounting,
auditing and MIS, ADB has also provided technical assistance funds to finance
consultancy/advisory services and training. It is committed under the ADB
project to maintain a maximum total d-ebt/equity of 20 times and net long-term
debt/equity of 10 times which are reasonable. During negotiations, assurances
vere obtained from ICBC that it would maintain the above limits. Under TIDP,
TMB has adopted, for the first tine, a formal statement outlining more
detailed and specific operations and financial policies which are appropriate
(Annex 14). During negotiations, assurances were obtained from ICBC that it
will exchange views with the Bank on any proposals to modify the above state-
ment.
4.23      At the end of 1991, ICBC's gross revenues increased at an average of
22 percent per year and reached Y 75,755 million and its net income increased
at about 11 percent per year, reaching Y 6,339 million. Its administrative
expenses averaged about 0.7 percent of total assets, which is reasonable. Its
liquidity position has remained satisfactory. Its Searing ratios have been
maintained at acceptable levels with long-term debt/equity at 8.29 times and
total debt/equity ratio of within 20:1 in 1991. ICBC's arrears amount to
Y 27,105 million or 3.4 percent of total outstanding portfolio, which is rela-
tively low. IC8C expects to maintain a collection ratio of about 95 percent,
which should be achievable given the short-term nature of most of its portfo-
lio and consequent close monitoring of the accounts. Accumulated provisions
for doubtful debts were equivalent to 0.32 percent of total loan portfolio, a
level currently allowed by the Ministry of Finance (MOP). ICBC has recom-
mended an increase in the provisions to 3 percent by 1997, which is appropri-
ate and approaches international norms.
4.24      1MB would implement ICBC's participation under TIDP.  At the end of
1991, TMB had total assets of Y 28,048 million ($5,100 million), deposits of
Y 15,124 million ($2,750 million), total loans of Y 23,180 million ($4,215
million) and net income of Y 169 million ($31 million). The Technical Innova-
tion Credit Department of TMB (TIC/TUB) will be directly involved under TIDP.
It has a total staff of 222, of which 88 are in the main branch. TIC/TMB is
headed by a general manager and three vice-managers. Seven people are
involved in appraisal on a full-time basis, including three engineers and two
economists. It is guided by ICBC's manual of operations for TIC and a project
anagement and appraisal manual issued in 1986 and patterned after CIB's
appraisal manual. Subbranches normally perform the regular follow-up with
quarterly reporting and TIC/TmB does full supervision up to project completion
for all foreign exchange loans (e.g., subloans under TTDP). While TIC has had
substantial experience in term financing, its staff need to participate in
training to be provided under TIDP.
4.25      Bank of Communications (BOCOM) was established in 1908 in Beijing,
nationalized in 1949, and had its operations suspended until it was reestab-
lished in 1986 and relocated in Shanghai. For all practical purposes, BOCOM
is a new bank. It has been very innovative in seeking clients and setting up
branches at locations with large demand. It is also the first bank to adopt a
public shareholding system involving diversified ownership at the branch
level. Each branch has a separate legal personality, operational autonomy and
financial accountability. The Head Office exercises "unified leadership" in



- 30 -
the appointment and removal of principal staff, establishing operating poli-
cies, plans, rules and regulations and foreign business.
4.26      BOCOM has 70 branches and subbranches in 69 cities, of which 27 are
engaged in foreign transactions, 29 handle insurance and 38 deal with securi-
ties. BOCOM had total assets of Y 78.5 billion at the end of 1990 and a net
profit of Y 1.6 billion during the year, which gave a return of 2.1 percent on
assets and 24 percent on capital employed. The above rates of return were
quite high by international standards.
4.27      BOCOM's Tianjin branch was established on February 28, 1992 with a
paid-in capital of Y 205 million, of which the Head Office holds Y 50 million,
the Tianjin Municipal Government Y 100 million and 26 entities Y 55 million.
At present, BOCOM-Tianjin's portfolio is mostly short-term commercial loans
financed by deposits and share capital. It will establish a long-term lending
unit, which would consist of mainly ex-CIB staff who are already working with
BOCOM-Tianjin. Furthermore, it is coordinating closely with CIB, which has
substantial experience in long-term investment financing and will also adopt
the latter's appraisal and supervision manuals. BOCOM-Tianjin is preparing a
priority training plan in appraisal and supervision techniques, which would be
implemented by end-1992. It has also adopted a formal Statement of Operating
Policies and Procedures governing its long-term investment financing activ-
ities. The latter contains prudential limits relating to exposure in a single
enterprise (maximum 20 percent), capital adequacy (minimum 10 percent), debt
and interest service coverage (minimum 1.5 times), debt:equity (maximum 5S1)
and collections targets (90 percent). During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from BOCOM that it will exchange views with the Bank on any proposals
to modify the above statement. BOCOM-Tianjin's projected financial perfor-
mance is expected to be quite satisfactory; a net profit of Y 25 million
(10.9 percent return on equity and 2.1 percent on assets) is expected in 1992.
This would increase to Y 50 million by 1995 (19.5 percent return on equity and
1.8 percent on assets).  During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
BOCOM-Tianjin that it would maintain a maximum long-term debt:equity ratio of
5:1.
E. Environmental Impact
4.28      The project subsectors are not major pollutants, but their manufac-
turing process will still have environmental impact. The manufacture of
machine tools and construction equipment entails founding and casting, metal
leaf treatment, assembly and painting. The manufacture of auto parts involves
metal cutting, heat treatment, stamping, plastic molding, welding, coating and
painting. These processes may lead to air and water pollution if not con-
trolled. Solid wastes are generally recycled and pose less of a problem. The
project envisages the manufacture of passive electronic components which
involve the use of electroplating, ceramics processing, ammonia, caustics,
cyanides, heavy metals, chelates, and other bonding materials and treating
furnaces. The use of these materials and processes can cause air and water
pollution and solid waste problems if not controlled. However, the volumes of
waste materials involved are relatively small and can be contained, recycled
and disposed at a relatively low cost. Metal industries also cause noise
pollution. In addition, workers' safety and hygiene problems can be a serious
issue in the industries involved. The environmental issues of the project



- 31 -
would be addressed through the following arrangements which will ensure that
all subprojects to be financed under the project comply with local as well as
8ank guidelines for pollution control.
4.29      The Tianjin Environmental Protection Bureau (TEPB) has confirmed
that all enterprises of the subsectors involved in the project must comply
with its guidelines. TEPB must approve their renovation and expansion plans
and would periodically monitor their compliance. Moreover, as part of the
investment approval process in Tianjin, TEPB would routinely be involved in
approving all feasibility reports for subprojects under the loan, i.e., clear-
ance by TEPB is required before any subproject can be financed by PFIs. In
particular, TEPB would require that all subprojects in the subsectors to be
financed under the Bank operation include adequate expenditure for controlling
environmental pollution and providing for workers' safety and hygiene. For
each feasibillty report, TEPB would review the environmental provisions to
ensure that they meet China's environmental standards which are adequate for
the subprojects. It would also ensure that the subproject's sponsoring fac-
tory is in compliance with those standards.
4.30      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from PPI. that they
will ensure that all subprojects will be approved by TEPB and be consistent
with environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank. Furthermore, under-
standings were reached that appraisal reports and summary information on indi-
vidual subprojects to be sent by PPIs to the Bank, will indicate specifically
the equipment to be procured for pollution control. During project implemen-
tation and before the Bank's approval of individual subprojects, or the autho-
rization for withdrawals, Bank staff will check and ensure that the necessary
equipment is included in the list of machinery to be procured for each
subproject.



- 32 -
V. ZD.L=QA
A. Main Features of the Loan
5.1       Lendin* and Onlendina Arrangements.  The People's Republic of China
(PRC) will be the borrower of the proposed Bank loan of $150 million equiva-
lent. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the loan amount will
be onlent by PRC to the Municipality of Tianjin (Tianjin) for 20 years with 5
years of grace and at an interest rate equivalent to the Bank's standard vari-
able rate. Tian;jin would relend (a) the financial assistance component of the
loan ($134.5 million) to PIle for relending to eligible enterprises on a
first-come, first-served basis, and (b) $200,000 out of the technical assis-
tance component for staff training on the same terms and interest rate as that
of the Bank loan. Tianjin would also relend to enterprises in the five sub-
sectors, out of the technical assistance component, $6.5 million to develop
technical centers, $2.5 million to engage consultants for project implementa-
tion and $0.7 million to train staff, on the same terms and interest rate as
those of the Bank loan. In order to regulate the flow of resources from the
PRC to beneficiaries and to set out the respective obligations of various
entities, the following agreements will be signed: (a) Loan Agreement between
the PRC and the Bank; (b) Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Tianjin and PPIs;
(c) Project Agreement between the Bank and Tianjint (d) Project Agreement
between the Bank and PFIs; and (e) Subloan Agreements between PFIs and enter-
prises. State Council approval of the Loan Agreement, signing of the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement under (b) above, satisfactory to the Bank, and Tianjin's
signing of an agreement with consultants for project implementation will be
conditions of effectiveness of the Bank loan (para. 4.8).
5.2       All subborrowers of PFIs will carry the variable interest rate risk
and foreign exchange risk between the currency pool index and the Chinese yuan
and will pay an interest rate equal to the Bank rate plus a minimum spread of
1.2 percent. The onlending rate is consistent with the recently approved IDA
Credit for the Tianjin Urban Development and Environment Project (Credit 2387-
CHA) and is considered adequate to cover the associated administrative costs
and the credit risk in view of a limited number of relatively large-sized
subloans expected to be financed under the loan. The relending rate to enter-
prises and PFIs under the technical assistance component is also justified
considering that these funds will be used for strengthening mainly R&D-type
work and management and staff capability. The maximum repayment period for
individual subloans would be 15 years including a grace period of up to 3
years. The last date for submission of subloan applications will be June 30,
1996. Assurances on the above terms and conditions were obtained during nego-
tiations. The project completiot. -te will be June 30, 1999. The closing
date of the loan will be June 30, 2000.
5.3       The onlending rate to enterprises would, over the life of the sub-
loans, be positive in real terms, given projected inflation rates. China's
inflation rate (based on retail index) was 6 percent in 1986, 7.5 percent in
1987, 18.5 percent in 1988, 17.8 percent in 1989, 2.1 percent in 1990, and
3.0 percent in 1991 and is estimated to be 6 percent in 1992 and 5 percent in
later years. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that, from time to
time at the request of any party, the Government and PPIs would exchange views



- 33 -
with the Bank on the interest rates to be charged by PFIs in their lending
operations in light of their cost of funds and profitability and of movements
in interest and inflation rates in China and internationally.
5.4       !r-Je Limit.  It is recommended that the free limit under the pro-
posed loan should be set at $4.0 million with the exception that the first
subproject under each subsector, irrespective of the subloan amount, would be
treated as above the free limit, which would require the Bank's prior
approval. Also, the first three subprojects from each PPI will be treated as
above the free limit, irrespective of subsector. It is estimated that 13 per-
cent of the subloans by number and about 10 percent by amout will be below
the free limit.
B. Procurement and Disbursements
5.5       Procurement.  The Bank's experience with procurement under earlier
industrial credits to CIB and TLIP has been satisfactory. Consequently, pro-
curement conditions will be same as for TLIP. The ICB limit for the indus-
trial credit component of TIDP would be $5 million, which is considered appro-
priate. Local bidders would be granted the standard preference, equivalent to
custom/import duties or 15 percent of CII cost, whichever is lower, in the
case of ICB. Contracts below $5 million would be awarded after evaluation and
comparison of quotations solicited from at least three qualified suppliers,
except proprietary equipment which can be procured by direct contracting. The
Bank's standard review and approval procedures (from bidding documents to the
contract awards) would be applied to all ICB packages above $5 million. All
other procurement contracts would be subject to post-review by the Bank, and
PIs would maintain all relevant documents in their records for this purpose.
Mise would also be responsible for the overall supervision of procurement by
subborrowers. Only about a dozen contracts are expected to exceed $5 million.
(In TLIP, nine contracts have been/would be awarded on the basis of ICB.) The
procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 5.1.
5.6       The items of equipment to be procured by the beneficiary institu-
tions under the technical assistance component would be generally of lesser
value (i.e., procurement packages less than $1 million) and specialized
nature, including testing and measuring devices, prototypes, computers, teach-
ing aids, etc. As the number of suppliers for such equipment is generally
limited, procurement will be through international shopping (i.e., at least
three bids from qualified suppliers in different countries). However, for
those items of special equipment, which would have contracts of more than
$1 million, procurement will be through limited international bidding (LIB),
with bids invited from a short list of specialized suppliers to be agreed with
the Bank. Furthermore, each contract estimated to cost $500,000 or more will
be subject to the Bank's prior review. Consultant services required for the
project will be engaged in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Implementing
Agency." The above arrangements were discussed and agreed during negotia-
tions.
S.7       Disbursements. Disbursements would be made against:  (a) 100 per-
cent of amounts disbursed by PMs under subloans except for interest during
construction which would be 90 percent of total; (b) 100 percent of foreign



- 34 -
Table 5.1: TIDP - PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
($ million)
Project element                                Procurement method          Total
ICB      LCB     Other       cost
Industrial credit component la              95.0       -       105.0       200.0
(95.0)             (39.5)    (134.5)
Technical Assistance Component
Goods and Technical Assistance for
Project Implementation                   -         4.5      12.3        16.8
(4.5)     (7.3)     (11.8)
Other Technical Assistance and
Training                                 -         -         5.2         5.2
(3.7)      (3.7)
Total Financint                        95.0       4.5     122.5      222.0
(95.0)    (4.5)    (50.5)    (150.0)
la  Includes initial raw materials and spare parts covered under incremental
working capital.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank.
expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory), and 75 percent
of local expenditures for other items procured locally, for goods under the TA
component; and (c) 100 percent of expenditures for consultant services for the
implementation of technical assistance program and training. Disbursements
for contracts of or above $200,000 and all consultant services will be made
against full documentation. Disbursements for contracts of less than
$200,000, interest during construction, and training will be made against
Statements of Expenditure (SOE), with the full documentation held by the TMG
or PFIs, as appropriate, for review by the Bank supervision missions. Expen-
ditures for staff training would be paid from the Special Account against the
actual costs of travel, subsistence and training fees. PFIs will submit
monthly summary sheets giving information on amounts of individual subloans,
contracts, amount of payments, purpose of loans, name and address of machinery
suppliers, and the country of origin of machinery. Similar monthly summary
sheets will be submitted by the TMG on expenditures under the technical assis-
tance program. Disbursements are expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
The disbursement projections (given in Annex 17) are based on the disbursement
profile of industrial development and finance operations in China with adjust-
ment for time needed in the first two years to reorganize subsectors and cre-
ate new enterprises which would receive subloans. In order to facilitate
project disbursements, a Special Account to be maintained in US dollars and to
be operated by TMG would be established under the loan in a bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Special Account would have an autho-



- 35 -
rized allocation of $8.0 million which is equal to four monthe estimated aver-
age disbursements. Applications for repleniskment will be submitted monthly
or when the amounts withdrawn are equal to 50 percent of the initial deposit,
whichever comes sooner.
5.8       Retroactive Financing.  Eligible expenditure under the technical
assistance component of the project up to a total of $5.0 million (3.5 percent
of the loan amount) incurred subsequent to July 31, 1992 will be allowed for
financing under the loan on a retroactive basis. It will enable the procure-
ment of some of the urgently needed items of machinery and equipment of rela-
tively small value by support institutions and engagement of consultants to
assist in project implementation.
C. Reiogtina and Auditing
5.9       The progress of the reform actions will be reported by the Tianjin
government at six-month intervals and discussed periodically with the Bank.
In addition, the Tianjin government will provide: (a) semiannual progress
reports on implementation of various items included in the technical assis-
tance component of TIDP; and (b) annual audit reports on (i) the Special
Account and (ii) Statements of Expenditure with respect to the technical
assistance component, prepared by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
PFIs will submit: (a) semiannual reports on progress of all subprojects under
implementation; (b) annual reports on all completed subprojects during the
first three years of subprojects' operations, providing information on perfor-
mance of individual subprojects against anticipated construction and opera-
tional targets (project cost, time schedule, production, sales, exports, and
profitability); reasons for any cost and time overruns, and shortfalls in
meeting original targets and actions being taken or proposed to be taken by
'Pus and/or the project sponsor to improve performance; and (c) an annual
audit report on (i) PFIs' accounts and (ii) Statements of Expenditures with
respect to the financial assistance component of TIDP audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. All audited accounts and statements will be
submitted within six months after the end of each fiscal year. During negoti-
ations, understandings were reached on the above reporting requirements and
assurances were obtained on the auditing requirements.
D. Benefits and Risks
5.10      The acceleration of policy and enterprise reforms in Tianjin will
result in greater autonomy and accountability for enterprise management,
higher efficiency, and increased competition in the five subsectors in Tianjin
and more rational resource allocation decisions which increasingly reflect
underlying factor costs. The modernization and restructuring of enterprises
in the context of a suitable overall restructuring strategy for the individual
subsectors is expected to result in significant gains in enterprise productiv-
ity, more efficient use of energy and raw materials and an increase in produc-
tion quality and exports. The strengthening of the technological infrastruc-
ture will assist the five subsectors in designing and implementing new proj-
ects, product development, quality control, and product testing and will
increase their exposure to the latest technological advances in foreign coun-
tries.



- 36 -
5.11      The main project risks relate to (a) the itplementation of policy
and enterprise reforms by the Tianjin government, and (b) the timely comple-
tion ot various activities envisaged under the project. Although the govern-
ment is fully commltted to the economic reform program, the need to ensure
macroeconomic stability and the inevitable sensitivities associated with pro-
grams of this magnitude will affect the pace of its implementation. However,
the direction of the reform process is not in doubt, and its pace is now being
accelerated.  Furthermore, the increasing delegation of greater authority to
the provinces should allow the Tianjin government to move easily ahead with
many of the reforms to which it is committed.
5.12      The complexity of the project, which deals with five subsectors,
three fiuancial intermediaries and several support institutions, could result
in implementation delays. While specific subcomponents are to some extent
independent, in that they are not dependent on the involvement of all project
institutions for their implementation, overall project activities will require
close coordination and supervision to ensure timely and satisfactory comple-
tion of the project. The experience gained in the implementation of TLIP and
the efficient functioning of special project implementation unit in Tianjin
(para. 4.14) will be of great help in this regard.



- 37 -
VI. AGREEMENTS AID RECOMMENDATION
6.1       During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following con-
ditions of loan effectiveness:
(a) State Council to approve the Loan Agreement (para. 5.1);
(b) The Municipality of Tianjln and PFITs to sign Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ments satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.1); and
(c) Tianjin to engage consultants to assist in the implementation of
subsectoral restructuring programs (para. 5.1).
6.2       Assurances were obtained from the PRC, THG, and PPIs on the follow-
ing conditions:
(a) PRC to:
(i) make loan proceeds available to Tianjin for 20 years with 5
years of grace at the Bank's standard variable interest rate
(para. 5.1); and
(ii) exchange views on PPIs' interest rates (para. 5.3).
(b) TMG tg:
(i) carry out and exchange views with the Bank at least every six
months on implementation of the development program and stra-
tegy for the five subsectors (Annsx 1) including economic and
system reforms and strategies for subsector restructuring
(para. 3.23);
(ii) carry out the technical assistance program as agreed with the
Bank (para. 4.6) and furnish to the Bank for approval, by
October 31 of each year, a 12-month training program (para.
4.9);
(iii) maintain the project task force and the office with functions
and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank and with competent
staff in adequate numbers to coordinate and monitor the overall
implementation of the project (para. 4.14);
(iv) onlend $134.5 million out of the industrial credit component
and $0.2 million out of the technical assistance component to
PPIs for 20 years with 5 years of grace at a variable interest
rate equal to the Bank's rate (paras. 5.1-5.2);
(v) onlend to enterprises in the five subsectors, out of the tech-
nical assistance component, $6.5 million to develop technical
centers, $2.5 million to engage consultants for project imple-
mentation, and $0.7 million to train staff, on the same terms
and interest rate as those of the Bank loan (para. 5.1); and



- 38 -
(vi) meet auditing requirements (para. 5.9).
(c)  PFIs tot
(i)  ensure that eligible subprojects were consistent with the TMG's
development program and strategy for the subsector concerned,
met PFIs' lending criteria including a minimum ERR and FRR of
12 percent, were sponsored by enterprises established pursuant
to the organizational restructuring of subsectors and with
satisfactory projected financial position, vere approved by
TEPB, and were consistent with environmental standards satis-
factory to the Bank (paras. 4.5 and 4.30):
(ii) carry out staff training in accordance with a program agreed
with the Bank (para. 4.11);
(iii)  exchange views with the Bank before making any proposal to
modify their policy statements (paras. 4.16, 4.22 and 4.27);
(iv) maintain satisfactory debt/equity ratios (paras. 4.18, 4.22 and
4.27);
(v)  onlend to subborrowers at a variable interest rate equal to the
Bank rate plus a minimum spread of 1.2 percent (para. 5.2);
(vi)  exchange views with the Bank on interest rates (para. 5.3); and
(vii)  meet auditing requirements (para. 5.9).
6.3       Understandings were reached with the TMG and PPIs on the followings
(a)  Details of the technical assistance for support institutions to be
implemented by the TMG (para. 4.7);
(b)  Detailed terms of reference and timetable of work to be performed by
international consultants for the implementation of subsectoral
restructuring programs (para. 4.8);
(c)  CIB to submit a satisfactory plan for improving loan recovery (para.
4.17); and
(d)  Information to be provided by PPIs in each subproject appraisal
report on the equipment to be procured for pollution control (para.
4.30).
6.4       With the above conditions and assurances, the proposed project is
suitable for a Bank loan of $150.0 million repayable over 20 years (including
5 years of grace) on standard terms to be made to the People's Republic of
China.



39 -                             ANEX I
CHINA
TIANJIN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Statement of the Tianlin Municipal Government on the Development Program
and Stratert for Machine Tools. Construction Eguipment. Electronics
Comnonents. Automotive Parts and Electric Motors Subsectors
A. Background
1.        Tianjin, the third largest city in China with a status of province,
has a relatively large and diversified industrial base. In 1990, its indus-
trial output reached Y 71.7 billion (current price) or $15.2 billion. The
output grew at a rate of about 10 percent per annum at constant 1980 prices
between 1980-90. In 1990, Tianjin manufactured 17 percent of China's medium
size tractors, 5.3 percent of automobiles, 2.5 percent of steel, 2 percent of
electric motors, 17 percent of bicycles and 5.4 percent of television sets.
Its machine building industry accounts for 4 percent of the total subsector
output value of China. Its electronic industry accounts for 5 percent of the
nation's total output value.
2.        Exports of goods from Tianjin amounted to $1.8 billion in 1990 and
grew at an average of 1.6 percent per annum in US dollar terms, during 1980-
90. While the leading export earners are textile, garments, foodstuff and
other light industry products, the export of machinery grew at 8.2 percent per
annum during the same period.
3.        Despite its impressive growth, Tianjin's industrial sector is con-
fronted with many problems. It is often characterized by lack of specializa-
tion, uneconomic size of operations, and inadequate management systems. Gen-
erally, the factory buildings are old, technology and equipment is outdated,
plant layouts are cumbersome, and the consumption of electrical and thermal
energy and raw materials is high.
4.        Since early 1980s, the Tianjin Municipal Government (government) is
emphasizing the development of low energy consuming and technology-intensive
industries.  During the Eighth Plan (1991-95), the government plans to make
the best use of its local resources--salt and petroleum to undertake large
chemical projects, and to make automotive, machinery equipment and electronics
as leading sectors for the development of its industry on a priority basis.
Subsectors where Tianjin has a comparative advantage, including textiles,
consumer durable goods, machinery and equipment, food processing, packaging,
chemical processing, plastics and garments, will be restructured and devel-
oped. Some of the above subsectors are being assisted under the Tianjin Light
Industry Project financed by the World Bank. Other priority subsectors, viz.,
machine tools, construction equipment, automotive parts, electronic compo-
nents, and electric motors are to be restructured with the assistance of the
World Bank for the proposed Tianjin Industrial Development Project (TIDP).
5.        The government considers the industry to be the main engine of
growth and expects to gain a more important place in the economy of the coun-



- 40 -                             ANNEX 1
try through industrial development. The government has already embarked on a
selective program of industrial restructuring which includes gradual enter-
prise reforms within the national framework, strengthening of support institu-
tions (i.e., R&D centers, training institutes, etc.), technological moderniza-
tion of enterprises and improvements in their organization and management
systems.
B.  Rntervrise and Subsector Policy Reforms
6.        The Tianjin government has actively pursued enterprise and policy
reforms in industry including the five subsectors of the proposed project.
There is now little mandatory production planning; enterprises are generally
subject to indicative planning and market adjustment. At present, among major
product groups, controlled prices apply to only 35 products, and indicative
prices to 18 products; all other products are subject to market prices. As
regards the five subsectors to be assisted under TIDP, about 95 percent of the
production is now outside the national plan and therefore the prices are set
by market conditions. Economic corporations have been established for most of
the industrial subsectorsa these corporations are responsible for the profits
and losses of enterprises in their jurisdiction.
7.        Until mid-1992, direct export rights were given to enterprises
which, inter alia, could export or had potential to export at least $3 million
value per annum. This limit has now been reduced to $1 million for machinery
and electronic products with high technology content, and $2 million for prod-
ucts of the same category with low technology content. Most products of TIDP
will have a $1 million limit. This would promote direct contact between the
manufacturers and foreign buyers and thus result in technology transfer,
prompt market response and efficient production planning by the Chinese enter-
prises. The government is also encouraging the use of FTCs as export agencies
whereby enterprises have direct contact with buyers and pay a commission to
'TCs for their marketing services. This arrangement also entitles the enter-
prises to retain most of the foreign exchange earned through exports. Many
products of the project's five subsectors, e.g., graders, automotive parts,
and coil springs are already exported by enterprises using FTCs as an agency.
8.        Foreign exchange retention schemes have been abolished for enter-
prises which export through FTCs (nonagency basis). They must now purchase
their foreign exchange at foreign exchange adjustment centers (PEACs), If the
enterprises were benefiting from direct export rights, they can keep 80 per-
cent of their foreign exchange earnings.
9.        Almost all enterprises in Tianjin are now subject to the contract
responsibility system. Tax payments are included in all contracts. During
the Eighth Five-Year Plan period, the enterprises are being submitted to more
performance targets than just the profit level. Yearly loan repayments are
also specified and new contracts have a duration of three to five years,
instead of two or three years in the past. New workers in enterprises are
governed by labor contracts.
10.       The growth of financial institutions, including the arrival of the
Bank of Communications in Tianjin, and the expansion of bank branches and
subbranches has provided flexibility to enterprises in the choice of banks for



- 41 -                             ANNEX 1
deposit and credit operations. Some competition now exists among financial
intermediaries which results in better service to enterprises. A few foreign
banks have been approved to set up branches and they would soon become opera-
tional.
11.      As one of the key measures to address the issue of surplus labor and
lack of labor mobility, arising from the enterprises' social obligation of
providing houses to employees, the government has prepared a city-wide housing
reform plan which is beginning to be implemented in 1992. The plan provides
for a compulsory housing savings program for 80 percent of city workers, hous-
ing bonds acquisition for allocation of new rental housing, gradual increase
of rent to "full cost" level to year 2000, and the sale of about 20 percent of
housing over 10 years at a high discount. In addition, the government has
decided to establish and support housing rental companies) cooperative socie-
ties to build housing with enterprise and government support; and municipal,
enterprise and individual level "housing funds."
12.       The city has also pooled pension and unemployment insurance schemes
at the municipal level separately for the government, SOEs, and collective
sectors. For health insurance, the municipality is preparing new measures to
pool major medical insurance schemes in several districts. These measures
vill be ready for implementation in 1993.
13.       The Tianjin government recognizes that despite significant progress
as mentioned above, reforms need to be furtiier accelerated, and it plans to
follow a continued step-by-step approach supported by selective experimenta-
tion. The main objective of these reforms is to provide further autonomy to
enterprises and to make them more responsive to market signals. New measures
are planned in all five subsectors and pace of implementation of certain re-
forms is to be accelerated as described below.
14.       Corporatization and Shareholdins System.  In order to promote exper-
iments in shareholding type companies, all beneficiary corporations under TIDP
would have share ownership. The beneficiary corporations which, on the basis
of their past two years' consolidated accounts, would have a minimum of 15
percent return on equity (net income before taxes as percentage of equity),
and a percentage of net income (after taxes) to capital not less than a one-
year bank deposit rate, will become "limited share companies." Whenever they
can meet necessary criteria and condztions for this purpose, these corpora-
tions will also be allowed to issue shares to employees and individual inves-
tors, according to the new central government regulations. The shares of the
corporations would be listed at Shanghai, Shenzhen, or Tianjin (should it have
its own stock exchange), and Tianjin government will seek central government
approval for this purpose. Other beneficiary corporations will also be
shareholding companies but would be classified as "limited liability
companies." Their shareholders would be typically the State Asset Management
Bureau, some other corporationslenterprises, and nonbanking financial institu-
tions.
15.       Cross-regional ownership can be an appropriate solution whenever an
enterprise in Tianjin needs another enterprise to share the production of
parts and assembly, in order to achieve economies of scale through high level
of production, reduce coats and improve competitive position. However, there



- 42 -                             AME  I
are difficulties in persuading enterprises in other regions to invest in such
enterprise. The government will make its beat efforts to establish initially
at least one corporation (most likely in the construction machinery subsector)
with cross-regional shareholding ownership on an experimental basis.
16.       Prices and Competition.  Measures have been taken in recent years
towards freeing enterprises and production from mandatory and indicative plan-
ning in the five subsectors. However, further measures will be taken to
remove by 1995 indicative pricing and what remains of mandatory planning in
the five subsectors.
17.       Investment and Technolony.  The Tianjin government has now the
authority to approve investments below Y 30 million in all subsectors. In the
area of technology transfer, the five subsectors will use effectively the
services of the Tianjin International Science and Technology Consulting Com-
pany, Tianjin Foreign Investment Advisory Center and other similar specialized
agencies, to obtain information and seek suitable foreign partners. Further-
more, the enterprises will be encouraged to establish long-term technology
sharing experiments with leading foreign manufacturers and the government will
simplify its procedures to facilitate such collaboration.
18.       Forcion Trade.  With the new lower limit for direct export rights,
most of the enterprises in the five subsectors would be able to undertake
direct exports. All other enterprises would be allowed to use FTCs on an
agency basis which would make possible direct contacts with foreign buyers and
retention of 80 percent of earned foreign exchange by these enterprises.
19.       Taxes and Contract Responsibilitv System.  The contract responsibil-
ity system (CRS) has several performance indicators (which may include produc-
tion, productivity, sales, employment, profits, taxes, etc.) and it, thus,
becomes difficult for the enterprise management to maximize efficiency and
profitability. In orcir to obtain greater benefits from CRS, the government
will streamline the contract obligations by reducing the number of targets in
new contracts to a few essential ones (viz., profits and debt-servicing), and
the contracts will not be revised during implementation.
20.       Labor Mobility.  About 10,000 workers are expected to become surplus
as a result of restructuring of the five subsectors. The government will
address this issue by developing the existing employment centers, improving
unemployment insurance facilities in Tianjin, and creating employment opportu-
nities. It will also take the following steps in 1993-95: (i) surplus work-
ers will be identified and released (at least 20 percent in 1993 and 40 per-
cent each in 1994 and 1995) from the five subsectors; (ii) the employment
centers (including Tianjin Labor Service Company) would actively support the
released workers in identifying job opportunities in other enterprises/subsec-
tors; and (iii) financial support and training would be assured for the work-
ers to be redeployed. The government will also take necessary steps to
strengthen the role of the employment centers and to improve the training
facilities for labor redeployment and will use the TA component of TIDP for
this purpose.
21.       Housina. The Tianjin government is making the maximum use of the
facilities provided by the recent reforms undertaken in this area to promote



- 43 -                              AUXI
individual housing transactions and to separate the supply of housing services
from the enterprise activities. With these objectives, and withlvn the frame-
work of the municipal housing reforms, the government will introduce experi-
ments first in the five subsectors under the project. The reforms would
include transferring housing assets of enterprises, or their housing manage-
ment rights, to the Tianjin Housing and Trust Company in charge of housing,
and offering to workers in the five subsectors real opportunities to purchase
dwellings. Substantial progress in this regard will be accomplished by 1995.
C. Physical Restructurinx of Fiye Subsectors
Main Issues and Anproaches
22.       Structure of Subsectors.  Most enterprises in the five subsectors
are small in size in comparison to international standards and have fragmented
production which inhibits efficiency, quality and competitiveness. The orga-
nizational structure of the subsectors will therefore be revamped to allow the
consolidation of physical assets and manpower, and closure of nonviable activ-
ities. This would help to achieve effective management control of the con-
stituent enterprises, and create a large critical mass for investment and
operational efficiency.
23.       Product and Market Concentration.  For historical reasons, capital
and resource allocation decisions have been made by the government as a part
of planning process with focus on higher production. This has led to manufac-
ture of a wide range of products with low volumes and inadequate coverage of
markets both domestic and export. In future, Tianjin would concentrate capi-
tal and other resources on those industrial activities where it has potential
comparative advantage and the market viability of products is clearly estab-
lished. In addition, it will build a strong position in domestic market as a
critical first step toward success in export markets. Furthermore, the five
subsectors will strengthen marketing, sales, distribution and service capabil-
ities.
24.       Develonment and Absorption of Technoloat.  Most enterprises have
relied heavily on centralized R&D institutes and, recently, on licensing
agreements for more sophisticated products. However, the enterprises have not
been able to develop capabilities for internal product development or full
utilization of imported technologies. In future, the subsectors will be more
selective in acquiring modern technologies and will seek greater commitment
from foreign partners to share new technology over the long term. The inter-
nal organization and expertise vill also be developed to adapt, absorb and
commercialize technologies in Tianjin.
25.       Plant Facilities and Layout.  Most of the plant equipment is obso-
lete or outdated. Furthermore, plant facilities are, to a large extent, not
well-organized with inappropriate production layout and flow. These problems
will be resolved to bring operational efficiency and improve quality and,
thus, to enlarge market share.
26.       Management Develorment.  Modern management skills are underdevel-
oped. The enterprises have lack of understanding of strategic planning and
need to adopt more flexible and innovative approaches to respond to market



- 44 -                             AMU     I
signals and to make prompt adjustments in operations. In future, appropriate
management functions will be established at all levels aud managers will need
more intensive training in are"s of product and market development, cost con-
trol, production planning, quality control, etc. Also, enterprise management
information systems will be strengthened to enable improved enterprise manage-
ment.
Restructurine Strategies
27.      Machine Tools.  The restructuring strategy for this subsector
focuses on further development of hydraulic proeses in which Tianjin has a
strong position. Development of gear cutting equipment and machining centers
would be undertaken only in technology collaboration relationships with for-
eign manufacturers to upgrade technologies, to provide Tianjin access to
export markets and to ensure economies of scale. Uneconomical products such
as vertical spindle and floor type surface grinders, boring and radial drill-
ing machines and large lathes would be discontinued no later than December
1994. Nonrelated products such as valves, pumps, and micromotors have been
already moved outside the subsector as recomaended by the consultants. The
manufacture of related accessories such as work tables, lead screws, etc.,
would be maintained under a separate corporation, the Tianjin Machine Tool
Accessories Corporation.
28.      With respect to the manufacture of horizontal spindle surface grind-
ers with creep control and CNC, and two spindle vertical grinders for the
automobile industry, the production of these products would be maintained and
reviewed for continuation or further expansion by December 1994.
29*       The present subsector organization which now includes nine state-
owned enterprises managed by TMIB would be restructured into two independent
shareholding corporations--the Tianjin Machine Tool Corporation and the
Tianjin Machine Tool Accessories Corporation (to which reference has already
been made under para. 27). The Machine Tool Corporation would comprise of
separate product divisions, viz., the hydraulic press division, the machine
center division, the surface grinder division and the gear cutter division.
The corporation would have certain common manufacturing facilities for fabri-
cation, precision machining, assembly and testing equipment for use by the
proposed product divisions. Hydraulic Press General Works Number 1 and Number
2 would be merged and form the new Hydraulic Press Product Division; Number 4
Machine Tool Works and the Grinder General Works would cease to operate no
later than December 1994 and the facilities in Nhmber 1 Machine Tool Works
expanded for the manufacture of gear cutting machines, machining centers and
surface grinder products specifically listed in para. 28.
30.       The enterprises within the proposed subsector corporations would not
have separate legal status. The respective product divisions would be the new
profit centers for management accounting and the manufacturing facilities
would constitute cost centers.
31.       Construction Equipment.  TianJin is well-positioned geographically
and industrially to expand its construction equipment subsector. Tianjin
would concentrate on those products in which it already has a comparative
advantage and strengthen its marketing position through cooperative arrange-



-45 -                               ANNEX 1
ments and mutually complementary relationships with other national manufactur-
ore. To achieve economies of scale, it is proposed to adopt a manufacturing
strategy wherein common production facilities are provided in specialized
workshops for plate preparation, fabrication of components and machining for
the proposed range of construction equipment products. The product lines
would be broadened and strengthened through foreign technology transfer agree-
ments. Under the construction equipment division the manufacture of crawler
dozers and motor graders would be expanded wvhreas the manufacture of wheel
loaders would be maintained and further investment would be made only if
domestic and foreign partners can be found. The manufacture of concrete mix-
ers would be discontinued latest by December 1994.
32.       The expansion of forklift truck production will take place only with
the participation of a leading international manufacturer preferably as a
joint venture shareholder or alternatively under a long-term technology trans-
fer agreement. The manufacture of forklift truck axles would continue; how-
ever, the manufacture of other products such as freight elevators, heat
exchangers, hoists, lifts and gear box repairs would be discontinued latest by
December 1994.
33.       The manufacture of existing models of diesel engines for off-highway
applications would be maintained and new models would be introduced, provided
a suitable joint venture partner under a shareholding or long-term technology
transfer agreement can be located. The manufacture of hydraulic torque con-
verters would be maintained.
34.       The grey iron foundry which provides castings for diesel engines and
other construction equipment would be upgraded, whereas the foundry for steel
castings would be phased out by December 1994.
35.       A new corporation would be formed to replace the present 11 enter-
prises in the subsector. This corporation would have four product divisions--
construction equipment; industrial equipment (forklifts); components (diesel
engines and hydraulic torque converters); and foundry. The corporation would
enter into marketing collaboration arrangements with selected domestic manu-
facturers of complementary products so as to be in a position to offer to its
potential customers a full range of construction equipment. The separate
legal status of all enterprises Included under the various product divisions
of this corporation would coase with its formation. This structure would
allow greater productivity, lower manufacturing costs, greater flexibility in
production planning and scheduling, improved product quality and better for-
eign market prospects. Its integrated structure would attract suitable for-
eign partners who could strengthen Tianjin's position in the construction
equipment subsector.
36.       Electronic Components.  The future development program and strategy
of this subsector focuses on passive components. Within the passive compo-
nents, Tianjin would concentrate on aluminum electrolytic (AS) capacitors and
thin film resistors. At the same time, it is proposed to initiate develop-
ment work on the manufacture of surface mounted technology (SHT) chip compo-
nents.



- 46 -                             ANNE
37.       To realize economies of scale in manufacturing high quality passive
components, the expansion of AE capacitors and thin film resistors would be
carried out only under joint venture shareholding arrangements with interna-
tionally reputed foreign manufacturers. Two separate corporations--a capaci-
tor corporation and a resistor corporation would be formed for this purpose.
These arrangements would enable Tianjin to increase its market share in the
growing domestic market and exports through the marketing organization of the
foreign partner.
38.       The two enterprises manufacturing AE capacitors--Tianjin Radio Com-
ponent Factory No. 1 and No. 14 would be merged into the proposed joint ven-
ture capacitor corporation. Carbon film resistors manufactured by Tianjin
Radio Component Factory No. 9 would be produced by the proposed joint venture
resistor corporation, and thereafter the Factory No. 9 would be closed. The
Tianjin Xin Tong Resistor Corporation would, however, continue to operate
independently.
39.       Tianjin Radio Component Factory No. 2 which manufactures variable
capacitors, No. 3 which manufacturers transformers for TV sets, No. 6 which
manufacturers delay lines, and No. 10 which manufactures potentiometers would
operate directly under TECIC, and would maintain the manufacture of these
products. Tianjin Radio Component factories Nos. 12 and 20 which manufacture
AS capacitors and ceramic disc capacitors, respectively, would be closed down
latest by December 1994. Tianjin Radio Component Factory No. 16 which manu-
factures capacitors for power factor correction would be moved outside the
subsector. The monolithic capacitor production in Radio Component Works No.
15 would be transferred to the proposed SMT laboratory.
40.       In order to promote the development of SMT for chip-type capacitors
and resistors, it is proposed to initiate steps for technology absorption and
process development in a technical center to be set up for this purpose.
Commercial production of SMT products would be considered only under a share-
holding joint venture with a leading international company and subject to
economies of scale, market justification and techno-economic viability of
manufacturing these SMT products being clearly established.
41.       Automotive Parts.  In order to improve the performance of this sub-
sector, an innovative restructuring approach and strategy has been developed.
The subsector would be restructured into 13 automotive parts subsystems rather
than along individual product lines as at present. The restructuring of two
of these subsystems where Tianjin has a high potential comparative advantage--
the drive train and the auto--electrical products would be taken up on a pri-
ority basis. The subsystems would be developed to provide Tianjin with the
capability to supply automotive parts at the national level and to leverage
the expanded domestic position in foreign markets. Emphasis would be placed
on developing components which would meet world standards of quality for
potential exports and gain a strong position in the China market. Foreign
technical relationships will be developed for new product and process technol-
ogies, to enhance quality, to raise output volumes, and to increase effi-
ciency.



- 47 -                              ANNEX 1
42.       Within the subsystems, products which do not have potential for
comparative advantage would not be manufactured in Tianjin and OEMs would
procure them from other national/international suppliers.
43.       The manufacture of propeller shafts would be phased out.  Also, the
manufacture of CV joints would not be pursued, except under a joint sharehold-
ing and technology transfer arrangement. The manufacture of regulators and
distributors would be phased out. In the engine parts subsystem, the manufac-
ture of rings, piston pins, valves and connecting rods would be phased out.
The manufacture of radiators in the enterprise under the Civil Affairs Bureau
is of doubtful viability, but it is proposed to be maintained on the consider-
ation that over 40 percent of its employees are handicapped persons. The
manufacture of hand-brake line would also be phased out. All phase out activ-
ities would be completed and the concerned enterprises closed latest by
December 1994.
44.       The manufacture of automotive parts subsystems would be delinked
from the direct administrative control and supervision of TAIC. Under the new
structure, independent corporations would be created for each subsystem and
will include only those enterprises which are viable. These enterprises will
lose their legal status and function as product divisions of the subsystem
corporations. The drive train subsystem corporation will have two product
divisions--the Auto Gear Division and the Axle Division. The Tianjin Auto
Axle Works and the Bus and Van Axle Works would be merged into the proposed
Axle Division. Likewise, some of the independent enterprises manufacturing
electric motors within the auto electric parts subsystem would be merged.
These new organization structures would induce econmAies of scale in all func-
tions. Each subsystem would develop through its product and excellence, rec-
ognition in the OEM and after-market parts.
45.       Electric Motors.  Although the subsector includes four enterprises,
it consists basically of one large enterprises, Daming Electric Motor Corpora-
tion (DEMC). The other three enterprises are very small production facilities
and are operating as collectives. DEMC has realized growth in sales and
exports of electric motors in the past five years (though its exports have
declined in the last two years), but its present manufacturing facilities and
product designs are not suitable for efficient product expansion and need to
be upgraded and modernized. Consequently, DEMC's restructuring would be
undertaken only with the participation of a foreign joint venture shareholding
partner who should be a leading electric motor manufacturer. A strong joint
venture partner would provide leadership to DEMC to improve its financial,
technical and market performance in both domestic and foreign markets. The
proposed joint venture would need to build new plant facilities at the present
site and would make use of the existing foundries within and outside the sub-
sector. With the establishment of such a joint venture, DEMC in its present
form would cease to operate.
46.       General.  In all the above subsectors, factory office and buildings,
plant, equipment and other fixed assets which are rendered surplus as a conse-
quence of rationalization, merger and closure of enterprises would be sold,
scraped or otherwise disposed of.
D. Development of Technological Infrastructure



- 48-                              ANNE  1
47.       The design and research institutes and the vocational training
institutes within the five subsectors cannot provide adequate technical sup-
port services. They lack computer hardware and software, testing equipment
and teaching aid facilities. They have limited contacts with similar institu-
tions in developed countries and therefore cannot keep up vith the latest
technological developments abroad. Subsector enterprises have also not given
sufficient attention to the importance of R&D. The linkages between national
and regional R&D institutes and enterprises are wesk.
48.       In order to strengthen the technological support system, it is pro-
posed to establish one technical center within each subsector under TIDP.
However, in case of subsectors/subsector corporations, such as electric
motors, resistor and capacitor corporations, which are proposed to b. devel-
oped only in conjunction with foreign joint venture partners on a shareholding
basis, the functions of technical center would be provided by the foreaign
joint venture partner. In such cases, it is not necessary to create such a
technical center using World Bank loan proceeds for TIDP.
49.       Tianjin has a number of vocational training Institutions which are
associated with the subsector enterprises. These institutions would be
strengthened on a selective basis through the provision of modern teaching
aids, training materials and equipment, books, etc., to enable them to better
meet the needs of restructured subsector corporations.



- 49 -                             AM  2
TIAMJIl IUDUSTRIAL DVKLOPMRT PRJC
Economic and EnterDrise Reforms ln the Five Subsectors in Tianjlin
1.       An extensive range of economic and enterprise reforms have been
implemented in Tianjin in the five subsectors. These reforms relate to domes-
tic competition, foreign trade, production and investment policies, enterprise
reforms, financial sector and labor mobility, including housing and social
security. Many of these reforms have been initiated at the national level and
applied to Tianjin, as well as other major cities selected for experimenta-
tion.
Price and Market Reforms
2.        Most of the production in the five subsectors is now outside the
national Plan. Prices are therefore set by enterprises according to market
conditions. Only prices of some products, and that too for small quantities,
are controlled by the central or the municipal government.11 Prices in
machine tools and the construction equipment subsectors are determined by
negotiation between enterprise and clients, particularly at the time of annual
national conventions.
3.        Since the early 1980s, the national market of the electric motors
subsector has been completely liberalized. The market, however, reains quite
regionalized. The majority of the sales of Tianjin electric motor subsector
is in Tianjin, and the same applies to other provinces. The regional protec-
tive policies to prevent the entry of products from other parts of the country
have been removed, but the segmented market structure still exists because of
past relationship between buyers and sellers.
J1   For a very few types of construction equipment, machine tools, ceramic
capacitors, aluminum capacitors, potentiometer, fixed resistors and
medium-sized electric motors (about 20 hp) prices are set by the central
government (Central Price Commission and respective supervisory minis-
tries). The state reference prices are set in relation to the unit cost
of the product, a mark-up of 8 percent and the demand. However, these
prices can vary slightly from one region to another for the same product.
Higher unit costs will tend to generate higher prices, but the mark-up
will be in general lower. Also, the enterprise can change these refer-
ence prices within a range of 10-30 percents 10 percent for auto parts,
and 15 percent for machine tools. In general, prices of new products are
not brought under administrative control during the first three years
following the creation of the product. Prices of raw materials used in
the five subsectors, such as steel, copper, pig iron and coke are set by
the central government for only the small proportion of production which
is still under the plan target.



-     50-                           ANNEX 2
4.        Enterprises in the electronic components subsector (capacitors and
resistors) are also free to produce and sell according to market requirements.
Annual production plans are still sent to the bureau, but only for informa-
tion. The selling price are determined through negotiations between the buyer
and the enterprise. The Ministry of Machinery and Electronic Industries
(MMII) issues price guidelines for key products. However, the contracting
parties are not compelled any more to follow them. The guidelines are used as
an overall market information background.
S.        In the automotive parts subsector, the prices are not controlled and
the Tianjin Automobile Industry Corporation (TAIC) is left relatively free to
respond to changing local and national market conditions. For cars, prices
are nationally fixed by the central government. An enterprise can propose and
obtain local modifications of the national reference price if it can show that
the changes are needed to provide a better response to its own market and
improve its sales performance. The prices of trucks and other vehicles have
been fully liberalized.
Investment Reforms
6.        Presently, for capital construction and technical renovation invest-
ments in the five subsectors, the State Planning Commission (SPC) must approve
medium- and large-size projects. Scale is measured by production capacity
criteria. Total cost criteria are also applied. Technical renovation proj-
ects costing less than Y 30 million (total cost) for light industry and
Y 50 million for heavy industry are approved by Tianjin Planning Commission.
Larger projects are sent to SPC or the State Council for approval. Until
recently the automotive subsector was submitted to a more stringent investment
authorization rule. Now, the subsector is subject to the general regulation.
Foreian Trade Reforms
7.        A large proportion of exporting enterprises in the five subsector in
Tianjin have been selling their products in local currency to FTCs which
resell them in foreign currency to foreign buyers. Under this purchasing and
reselling regime, enterprises are closely associated with each major step of
the operation: identification of the product and specifications, marketing,
negotiations, and after sales service. Now, in a few cases, FTCs are acting
on an agency basis. This new trading arrangement is developing slowly since
enterprises often cannot collect the foreign exchange proceeds in a relatively
short period.
8.        Direct exporting has expanded since 1987 from a very small base.
Direct export rights have now been granted to more than 10 percent of export-
ing enterprises. FEACs have substantially expanded their activity in recent
years. The volume of transactions in Tianjin reached $100 million in 1989.
However, compared with Tianjin exports of $452 million for the same year, this
transactions volume appears still relatively low.
9.        An FTC is specifically assigned to each of the five subsectors for
import and export transactions. FTC8 are mostly under the Foreign Trade
iureau, but in some cases under the Industry Bureau of the subsector (elec-



- 51 -                              AM=  2
tronics). The transformation of PITCs into export sale agencies is being
strongly encouraged by the Foreign Trade Bureau of Tianjin Municipality.
10.       Export subsidies to FTCe have been abolished.  They are not any more
sheltering enterprises from exporting at a loss. It then becomes progres-
sively in the interest of the exporting enterprises to use FTCs as a service
agency. Moreover, foreign exchange retention schemes have been abolished for
enterprises which do not export directly but sell to FTCs. They must now
purchase their foreign exchange in FEACs.
11.       Several enterprises in the five subsectors export directly.  Until
mid-1992, direct export rights were given to enterprises which, inter alia,
could export or had potential to export at least $3 million value per annum.
This limit has now been reduced to $1 million for machinery and electronics
products with high technology content, and $2 million for products of the same
category with low technology. Except electric motors which will have a $2
million limit, all other products of TIDP will have a $1 million limit.
Already, products like graders and auto parts are directly exported by enter-
prises. In this case, they can retain at least 80 percent of their export
earnings.
12.       Until recently, enterprise exports in the machine tools and con-
struction subsectors have been below $1 million. Therefore, no export rights
have been granted. Exporting enterprises are selling their products to FTCs
which in turn sell them abroad. However, exports of the gear-cutting company
have now reached the new $1 million bencbmark, and the company would become
eligible for direct exports. The same applies to the forklift factory in the
construction equipment subsector.
13.       As regards the external trade in the electric motor subsector, the
total export was $1.7 million in 1991, and, therefore, the Daming Electric
Motor Company (DEVC) does not yet benefit from the direct export status.
Presently, only one enterprise (Tianjin Middle Circle Capacitor Corporation)
in the electronic components subsector benefits from direct export rights.
14.       Since early 1991, in the automotive subsector, TAIC has direct
export rights. The Tianjin branch of the China National Auto Import Export
Corporation (CNAIEC), which was also under the supervision of TAIC, has lost
its status of a branch,2I and is now exclusively under the supervision of
TAIC. The corporation can retain almost 100 percent of its foreign exchange
earnings. However, more institution-building is needed to develop exports.
Up to now, TAIC's knowledge of foreign markets has been relatively limited,
its after sales support abroad minimal, and its access to export channels
somewhat inadequate.
21 This means it has lost its authority to mandate exports production and
pricing on behalf of the national FTC and its ability to receive exports
subsidies.



- 52 -                              ANN% 2
Tax. Credit and Profit Distribution Policies
15.       The 1984 income tax law has been fully implemented in Tianjin.
Before 1984, enterprises used to remit profits to the State. Now state enter-
prises remit taxes on the basis of 55 percent of their profits. The indus-
trial and commercial tax has been replaced since 1984 by a product tax and a
value added tax, and finally by a value added tax alone. The value added tax
is fully implemented in the five subsectors and the average rate in these
sectors is about 14 percent.
16.       Tianjin was selected in 1984 as one of the first cities to implement
the CRS reform. Now practically all enterprises in the city are under the
CRS. One main aspect of the system is the link between the growth of product-
ion and the growth of total wage payments. As a result, about Y 1 of bonus
has been paid to workers yearly for Y 7 of profits and taxes. The enterprises
have been also provided with more autonomy in the management of their employ-
ees, through the introduction of possible wage-earning penalties and the
employee contract systems.
17.       In the machine tools subsector, the Tianjin Finance Bureau signs a
contract for two or three years with subsector corporations, which in turn
sign the contract with the enterprises. During the Eighth Plan period, enter-
prises are being subjected to more performance targets than just the profit
level. Yearly loan repayments and tax payments targets have been specified
and new contracts have a duration of three to five years.
18.       For the time being, the CRS and taxes in the electronic components
subsector are still handled at the enterprise level rather than by the new
corporation, mainly because the enterprises have kept their legal entity sta-
tus. The CRS includes a profit target, a tax payment obligation as a fixed
percentage of the profit, and tax rebates to allow loan repayments.
19.       Profits after taxes are usually allocated among five items:  produc-
tion development fund, welfare fund, bonus, reserve fund, and new product
development fund. The rule is that the development fund and the reserve fund
should not take more than 60 percent in profit allocation. Bonus to the work-
ers in the machine tools subsector can be fixed every year in the traditional
way, i.e., as a fixed percentage of profit after taxes. More and more, how-
ever, it is being merged with wage increases as a reward for better perfor-
mance.
Enterprise Ownership
20.       Enterprises in the five subsector have in many cases been estab-
lished to produce only specific categories of output and the related produc-
tion system is often too vertically integrated. To gsain economies of scale,
the subsectors must be reorganized towards more horizontal integration.
Diversified shareholding could be utilized to ensure a good coordination
between activities of various categories of enterprises, especially foundries,
enterprises producing parts and components, and finished product lines.
Diversified shareholding would be a major improvement towards more enterprise
autonomy, flexibility, and efficiency. The central government has issued in
May and June 1992 regulations which outline a preliminary legal framework for



- 53 -                             ANNEX 2
shareholding. These regulations include standards for setting up: (i) 3lim-
lted liability companies" whose shareholders could be the State Asset Mbnage-
ment Bureau, other enterprises, and nonbanking financial institutions, and
(ii) "limited share companies" which can also include employees and foreign
investors as shareholders.
Labor Mobilitv
21.       Current T,abor SuRplv Policies.  In order to provide employment to a
growing number of persons entering the labor force and to adjust to sectoral
changes in labor demand, three categories of policies are being implemented.
First, new job opportunities are offered through the development of small-
scale service industries: for example, the establishment of food services and
small-scale hospitals is encouraged. Second, concerned industrial bureaus and
the labor bureau work out a solution to reallocate the workers across subsec-
tors. Third, employees are left free to find a new job by themselves either
in the ssame subsector or outside. To help implement these policies industrial
bureaus submit every year to the Labor Bureau a list of new employment vacan-
cies.  If the required qualifications differ from the available skills, the
workers are given additional training in one of the 19 training centers under
the labor bureau.
22.       Current Vocational Training Policies.  A number of institutions are
responsible for providing and upgrading skills of workers.
(a) The Tianjin Labor Bureau and the Bureaus in the industrial subsec-
tors have their own training facilities, mostly for new workers
entering in the subsectors.
(b) The enterprises in each subsector have their own training capabili-
ties to impart skills to new workers as well as upgrade the skills
of existing workers.
(c) Technology schools have been established in the five subsectors.
(d) Special programs are geared to send workers for training in other
provinces and even abroad.
When a worker needs to acquire new skills as a result of a restructuring
arrangement, one of the following arrangements are made: (i) the worker is
sent to the Tianjin Branch of the China/Germany higher-level training center;
(ii) the worker is oriented to the high technology training center of a voca-
tional school; (iii) the worker is sent to the training center of the bureau
of the subsector activity requiring new skills snd knowledge.
23.       Restructurint Issues.  The workers identified as surplus in an
enterprise must apply to the supervising bureau who will transfer them to
employment-deficit areas in the same subsector. If the subsector cannot
absorb more workers, employment search beyond the subsector will be handled in
collaboration with the municipal labor bureau. When a bureau transfers an
employee from one factory to snother, it verifies that the employee has the
required skills for the new job. If not, the employing company will have to
train the new workers. In spite of these measures, the process of workers'



- 54 -                             ANNX 2
reallocation remains uncertain and rather limited. First, reallocation is
generally within and not across subsectors. Second, the training to redeploy
the existing workers is to be provided by the hiring enterprise. This enter-
prise may find more costly to upgrade the skills of an existing worker than to
hire a newly qualified worker.
24.       Manpower redeployment is a very complex issue and has many dimen-
sions: information on labor surpluses and deficits, matching overall labor
supply and demand at the municipal level through the support of an employment
center and unemployment insurance. Some reforms in the area of labor mobility
have been already initiated in Tianjin for specific categories of labor. A
municipal employment center (Tianjin Labor Service Company) and an unemploy-
ment insurance scheme have been operating for several years in Tianjin. How-
ever, their role is still quite limited.
25.       Emillovment Contract.  The employm-nt contract system has been
applied to newly hired workers since 1983. As a consequence, the number of
employees under the contract system amounts to 7 percent of the labor force in
Tianjin, and to about 11 percent of the labor force in the five subsectors.
The principles guiding the contract are the following: (i) the workers are
selected according to the adequacy of their professional and technical quali-
fications; (ii) the enterprise director can dismiss the worker at the end of
the contract; (iii) during the interim period between two employmento, the
vorker receives unemployment insurance benefits. By contrast, the permanent
worker La "permanently" employed and does not receive unemployment insurance.
Housing Reforms
26.       Most of housing and welfare benefits are enterprise related.  They
do not represent in principle an obstacle to labor mobility, because all
enterprises grant the same benefits. In practice, however, differences in the
quality of the benefits are to be expected. The enterprise buys housing
facilities for its workers and rents these facilities at a low fixed rate.
Moreover, enterprises contribute to building up the retirement fund of a
worker and the State provides the remainder. Health and social welfare bene-
fits are directly provided by the hiring enterprise and are the same across
enterprises.
27.       Considerable efforts have been made by TMG to reform the housing
delivery system. Recent developments include the creation of a special public
fund for housing construction, a plan for a step-by-step increase of rents,
the individual housing acquisition scheme, housing bonds acquisition for new
renters, and the creation of cooperatives for housing construction.
Financial Sector
28.       Financial sector reform experiments were introduced first in Tianjin
and in a few other cities. Implementation of the reform program began in
April 1987 and has been successful up to now. Segmentation of the financial
market is being progressively removed by allowing sector specialized financial
institutions to develop their business with clients from all sectors. Recip-
rocally an enterprise can chose a specialized bank from a different sector.
For example, an agricultural bank can make a loan to an urban enterprise.



-55-                                ANNEX 2
However, construction activities still have to be financed by construction
banks. Second, more banks can now accept deposits. Third, interest rates on
deposits and long term loans are fixed, but interest rates on working capital
can fluctuate in the proportion of 20 percent of the level established.
Fourth, state enterprises can issue negotiable bonds with the authorization of
the relevant bureau.
29.       More than 30 new financial institutions have been set up.  They are
divided into three categoriess (i) subsidiaries of state banks; (ii) collec-
tive banks which are owned by city districts; (iii) leasing companies which
can lease imported equipment; they can be either collectives or state-owned.
30.       The growth of financial intermediaries, including the arrival of
Bank of Communications in Tianjin, and the expansion of bank branches and
subbranches has provided a little more freedom to enterprises in the choice of
banks for deposit and credit operations. As a result, some competition does
exists among financial intermediaries.



- 56-                              ANNEX-3
CHINA
TIANJIN INDUSTRIAL DEveLoPMERT PROJECT
Instiltutional Strengthenina for
Workers' Retrainina and Redeulomuent in Tianiin
Background
1.        Employment of workers by enterprises in China has been mainly on
"permanent" (i.e., lifetime) basis. The most important step towards changing
this practice has been the introduction of a fixed-term contract system in
1983. It facilitates the hiring of new workers for a fixed term at the end of
which their services can be terminated. However, only a small proportion of
the labor force is covered by this system (7 percent in Tianjin, 10-12 percent
for TIDP's five subsectors).  In addition, T1G is pursuing a number of dif-
ferent approaches to promote the creation of new jobst (a) promotion of ser-
vice industries (e.g., restaurants) as Subsidiaries of state-owned enterprises
(SOEs) to absorb some of their own surplus labor, (b) assisting in retraining
and the redeployment of surplus labor across the industrial sector with the
support of Tianjin Labor Service Corporation (TLSC) and Training Centers and
(c) encouraging the rapid development of the service sector as a whole as one
of the main outlets for employment growth in the medium to long term.
2.        The above efforts need to be further streamlined and improved to
reduce the burden of surplus labor on SOEs. The main objective of the
restructuring of five industrial subsecturs under TIDP is to improve their
efficiency and competitiveness. This would require, inter alia, olosure of
inefficient and uncompetitive enterprises resulting in displacement of large
number of workers and reduction of surplus labor in other enterprises. Simi-
lar restructuring programs in other industrial subsectors would also necessi-
tate redeployment of labor. It is recognized that this will create a major
social challenge to the Tianjin Government.
3.        TLSC is in operation as a division of the Tianjin Labor Bureau (TLB)
and it is recognized as the Employment Division of TLB. It has five predomi-
nant functions: (a) to establish employment procedures for the "Da Yie"
youngsters (those who have never been employed); (b) provide employment intro-
duction services and employment opportunity marketing services for "Da Yie";
(c) collect employment insurance from joint ventures, private enterprises and
collectively owned enterprises for contract workers and deposit it with the
Tianjin Finance Bureau; (d) manage labor resources and coordinate training
programs; and (e) investigate employment opportunities for unemployed workers
(those who are in between jobs). Although the current focus of the Labor
Service Company is "Da Yie," it is planning to pay greater attention to the
needs of unemployed workers.
4.        Tianjin has traiuing facilities for preemployment and on-the-job
training. The Labor Bureau, Personnel Bureau and other administrative bureaus



- 57 -                              ANNE
provide vocational and technical training to workers and cadres (vhite collar
workers).  The Economic Codission coordinates management training in Tianjin.
Obscetive of the Technical Assistance (TA)
5.        The purpose of this TA component is to help strengthen the existing
institutional framework for the redeployment of labor in the industrial sector
in Tianjin and to enhance its capability to meet the increasing demand. There
are several successful models in the US, Canada, Europe and other developing
countries that can be followed. As a result, Tianjin institutions will
improve their capability to, inter alia, centrally compile a list of laid-off
workers, forecast future worker displacement, and counsel, retrain and rede-
ploy them in gainful employment. The consultants to be engaged under TA, will
suggest how the present institutions for job placement need to be reorganized,
rationalized and strengthened. In addition, TA will provide for procurement
of computer equipment to develop and maintain a data base and foreign training
of selected staff in TLB and TLSC.
8coPe of the Consultants' Work
Task I: The consultants will outline the detailed procedures to prepare and
maintain a comprehensive list of displaced workers who require retraining and
redeployment in coordination with the Labor Bureau and administrative bureaus
responsible for the industrial subsectors.
Task 2: The consultants will determine how a strategic planning approach can
be employed to forecast the possibility and probability of future worker dis-
placement as a result of enterprise closing or structural adjustment of
Tianjin's industrial base, especially SOEs.
Task 3: Based on the above information, the consultants will design a system
to forecast the educational, technical and skills categories that will become
redundant and will require retraining and redeployment.
Task 4: The consultants will also suggest as to how a list of existing and
future job openings suitable for the displaced workers will be compiled and
regularly updated. This will require continual collection and analysis of
economic, planning, technological and market data and its translation into
job opportunities for the displaced workers. This information will be more
readily available once the recommended data base and information system is
established. It will also require close coordination with the central and
municipal bureaus and commissions responsible for planning, approval of capi-
tal projects and job creation. Based on this information, a system will be
designed by which future job openings broken down by education, technical and
skills level categories will be regularly compiled and used for placement of
laid-off workers. It will also be used to plan training courses to focus on
present and forecast needs of skills and expertise.
Task 5s The success of creating new job opportunities in tertiary and ser-
vices industries in Tianjin will also be evaluated and recommendations made as
to how these should be completely delinked from enterprises that no longer
require these workers.



- 58 -                              AM    3
Task 6s Based on a review of the present training and redeployment programs
under the different bureaus, commissions, corporations and enterprises; the
study will determine their effectiveness and success in redeploying laid-off
workers. A scheme for rationalizing them will be prepared.
Task 7: The consultants will recommend measures for the institutional
strengthening of TLSC to undertake all the above tasks, including organiza-
tional arrangements under the TMG. The consultants will recommend as to how
this institution can be kept lean, flexible and unbureaucratic.
Task 8: This task will cover the organization structure, personnel, budget
for the first five years and mandate of TLSC. It will also review and recom-
mend whether this institution should be under one bureau or commission or
managed by representatives of a small number of concerned bureaus and commis-
sions who will manage it as a Board of Directors. The consultants will also
review and recommend whether the enterprises laying off workers and those
employing them should pay a fee to TSLC for its services and how this fee
should be determined.
6.        It is envisaged that a consulting team of two expatriate consultants
for a total period of eight months, supported by three local consultants will
be required for this assignment. The expatriates will include a specialist in
labor redeployment/job creation specialist, and one training specialist (each
for four months). Local specialist with experience in training, worker rede-
ployment and computer usage will be required for a total period of eight
months.
7.        The TA component of $300,000 would be utilized as follows:  consul-
tants--$240,000, computer equipment--$15,000 and foreign training--$45,000.



- 59 -                           ANNEX 4
CHINA
TIANJIN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Machine Tools Subsector
Background and Organization
1.        China has over 800 factories producing 2,200 different types of
metal cutting, metal forming and other machine tools with a total output value
of $1.4 billion in 1990 accounting for about 3 percent of world market share.
From 1977 to 1988 annual consumption of machine tools in China increased by
10.4 percent in nominal terms and 4.4 percent in constant terms. China's
present machine tool population of over 3.2 million machines is one of the
largest in the world. However, 90 percent of the machines were built with the
technology of the 1950s or 1960s. Only 10 percent reflect the latest technol-
ogy. It is estimated that 55 percent of the machines installed are of more
than 15 years of vintage reflecting technological obsolescence. The propor-
tion of modern machines integrating numerical control systems in the product
spectrum of manufacturing lines in China is less than 1 percent in comparison
with 50 percent in the United States which indicates the extent of technology
lag in this industry. Around 90 percent of the machine tools manufactured in
China are sold in the domestic market. Twenty percent of total sales are at
indicative prices and the rest via commercial channels, indicating largely
market-oriented approach in this subsector.
2.        Tianjin's machine tool industry consists of 16 enterprises and about
15,300 employees with total sales of Y 245 million ($45 million) in 1990 or
about 4 percent of China's total market. It has six main product segments
with the share of metal cutting machines at 34.3 percent and metal forming
machines at 22.9 percent, the balance being accessories and tools for machine
tools and miscellaneous working machines plus a marginal share of automatic
control machines. In terms of value, five metal cutting machine tools (gear
cutting machines, surface grinders, large lathes, radial drilling and machin-
ing centers) represented 29.1 percent of the total machine tools production,
two metal forming machines (large and small hydraulic presses) comprised
22.9 percent and four equipment and parts (electric control panels, pumps,
high pressure pump valves and miscellaneous machine tool components) equalled
22.1 percent of the subsector production value. Tianjin has a virtual mono-
poly in China in gear cutting machines and key position in the manufacture of
surface grinders, hydraulic presses and large lathes. These are also
Tianjin's main areas of exports. Tianjin was not a major producer of machin-
ing centers up to 1988 but came into prominence by exporting 90 machining
centers without CNC that year. It is also in the early stages of technology
transfer discussions for CRC controllers. Among components and accessories,
electromagnetic chucks, optical accessories and grinding wheel dressers are
promising products for expansion. Details of Tianjin's major machine tool
manufacturing enterprises in each major product segment and their relative
sizes are given in Attachment 1.



- 60 -                             AMNE4
3.        Within the Tiajin Municipal Government (IMG), the Tianjin Machine
Building Bureau 1t responsible for overall development of this subsector.
Apart from machine tools, the Bureau also oversees the working of Construction
Equipment, power generating and transmission equipment, and other mechanically
based Industries. In 1991, the Bureau represented 320 individual enterprises,
approximately lSI,000 employees and total sales of Y 3.4 billion of which the
share of machine tool. subsector was 7.6 percent, 12.3 percent and 10.9 per-
cent respectively. The Machine Tools subsector enterprises are organized into
five major product groups.J/ The enterprises in these groups, however,
directly report to the Bureau. The Bureau also has a horizontal level of
functional deprtments monitoring the individual major business function of
the enterprises *.g., quality, production planning, finance, operations, sci-
ence and technology, e¢t. Since the mid-1980., a program of industrial and
management refoms hae been implemented which has decentralized the decision
making process and shifted the focus of management to the enterprise level.
However, the decision making responsibility still overlaps between different
levels of subsector organization. For Instance, the absence of free prices
for some inputs creates a need for an allocation system for these Inputs. For
inputs sourced from abroad, the enterprise without independent foreign trade
rights is compelled to use a local or national importlexport corporation as an
agent In the selection of and payments for the purchases. The autonomy for
facility rationalization at the enterprise level is nonexistent as it involves
allocation and disposition of productive assets with impact on workers' earn-
ings. The enterprises are characterized by vertical integration, low capital
equipment utilizatlon, duplication of facilities, inefficient products and
uneconomic level of operations. Engineering and product development talent is
not pooled to develop the base of skills necessary to quickly absorb new prod-
uct and process technologies. Current plans for renovation and reorganization
of foundry workshops are quite Inadequate. Without world class foundry facil-
itios, Tianjin cannot compete within China or 'n the international market.
Low volume purchases by individual enterprises afford them very little lever-
age with suppliers. As regards marketing, international operations require
good technical knowledge of products, active marketing support and extensive
after-sales service and parts package which are currently lacking or nonexis-
tent. Given these constraints the machine tools subsector in Tianjin needs
restructuring to attain competitive strength.
Performance of the Subsector
4.        Between 1987 and 1991, while the production of the machine tools in
Tianjin increased by 34 percent, its national share marginally declined from
5.7 percent to 5.2 percent. Tables below show (a) trends in overall produc-
tion and consumption of machine tools for China and Tianjing and (b) trend for
specific machine tool segments and major products in Tianjin.
1/   The five major product groups ares  First Machine Tool Group, Metal Form-
ing Machine Group, Crinding Machinery Group, CNC Machinery Accessories
Group and Coc Sezvo Group.



- 61 -
Cum MACNI TOOL MART
(Y million)
1987      1988      1989       1990      1991
Est.
Domestic Production               3,368     4,181      4,429     3,919      4,498
Imports                           1,839     2,123      2,295     2,568      3,029
Exports                             346       488        882     1,181      1,155
Consumption                       4,861     5,816      5,842     5,306      6,372
Tianjin Production Valus            192       212        238       199        232
Production share (2)                5.7       5.1        5.4       5.1        5.2
Notes In 1990, the number of Ti1ajin's enterprises decreased from 22 to 16.
Source:t TECC estimates.
TIANJIN--PRODUCTION OF MACHINE TOOLS
_Sales C  million)             CADR la
Segment      Products                1987   1988   1989   1990   1991       (2)
Metal      Gear cutting machines    34.35  42.84  36.64  33.37  44.10   6.4
cutting    Surface grinders          15.83  18.37  19.17  16.00  19.10   5.1
machines   Machining centers          0.00   0.40   4.95   9.00  23.50 177.0
Rotary arm drills          6.70   4.75   4.05   4.06   3.18 -15.4
Boring machines            0.64   1.90   n.a.   0.25   n.a.   -
Large lathes              10.75  13.76   8.44  10.34  12.8    4.5
Metal      Hydraulic presses         43.79  49.43  54.02  62.89  67.42  14.0
forming
machines
Equipment  Magnetic chucks            1.88   1.84   1.85   1.83   1.40  -7.2
and parts  Optical accessories        1.99   2.10   1.33   1.82   4.28  21.1
Grinding whel dressers   6.07   7.01   7.72   7.45   8.86   9.9
l Cumulative annual growth rate.
While Tianjin was somewhat lagging in keeping pace vith China's overall
machine tool produesrs In sustaining its market share, its own production of
maehine tools for gear cutting machines, surface grinders, hydraulic presses,
large lathes and machining centers shoed significant growth rates.  On the



-62-                                AN_EX 4
other hand, Tianjin's production of radial drilling and boring machines showed
negative rate of growth.
Market Develoament
5.        During 1987-91, the Chinese machine tool market grew from Y 4,861
million to Y 6,372 million, i.e., an average annual growth of 7 percent per
year. During the same period, China's production of machine tools grew at
7.5 percent and exports at 35.2 percent per annum. The Chinese machine tool
market is projected to grow phenomenally from Y 6.4 billion in 1991 to Y 27
billion in the year 2000. Domestic production is projected to grow at much
faster pace than in the past, but the net deficit of about Y 1.9 billion ($344
million) in 1991 is estimated to increase to over Y 8 billion ($1.5 billion)
by the turn of the century.
6.        The world machine tool market has grown from $15 billion in 1977 to
$38 billion in 1988. The leading producers are Japan, Germany, USA, USSR,
Italy and Switzerland. The major consumers are Japan, USA, Germany, Italy,
UK, France, China and South Korea. Machine tool markets in these countries
have high import propensity though USA, Germany and Japan are export leaders
too with over $3 billion in net exports each. China's imports equaled
$227 million in 1988 mainly from Japan, Germany, USA, Switzerland and Italy.
Of China's total exports of $71 million in 1987, 30 percent were to Hongkong
and Asia, 33 percent to Eastern Europe, 10 percent to Western Europe, 8 per-
cent to USA and 18 percent to other countries. Tianjin's exports totalling
$9.2 million in 1988 and $14 million in 1989 were mainly to Hongkong and
Southeast Asia followed by Eastern Europe. The export model for Tianjin dif-
fers from the rest of China. China's exports are mainly lathes, grinding and
milling machines as against hydraulic presses, gear cutting machines and sur-
face grinders from Tianjin. The most significant importer of Tianjin's
machine tools is Eastern Europe. Many of these exports are part of barter
trade agreements which are under great pressure as a result of changes occur-
ring in that region. Tianjin will therefore have to depend upon its own com-
petitive strength in terms of higher qualitylprice ratio, technical sales
network and expertise including joint ventures or tie-ups with leading world
machine tool producers/exporters, product specialization, upgraded production
and brand recognition.
Subsector Capabilities and Competitiveness
7.        The changing trends of Tianjin's market share in some of its strong
areas and not-so-strong but potential areas during 1987-91 are summarized in
the table below.



- 63 -                              ANNX 4
Item                     1987      1988       1989      1990       1991
_----------- - (Y million) ---------------
Surface Grinders
China market                    67.1      60.6       76.7      75.8       75.7
Tianjin sales                   15.4      16.67      14.2      13.9       16.2
Market share (2)                23.0      27.0       18.5      18.4       21.4
fIdraulic Presses
China market                   227.7     264.6      276.3     257.6      315.0
Tianjin sales                   45.2      49.8       57.4      60.5       66.3
Market share (M)                19.8       18.8      20.8      23.5       21.1
Gear CuttinA Machines
China market                    49.4      39.1       58.0      53.3       53.4
Tianjin sales                   27.4      28.0       35.0      28.9       32.1
Market share (Z)                55.6      71.7       60.3      54.3       60.4
Machining Centers
China market                    42.38     56.84      64.5     117.2      198.9
Tianjin sales                    0         0.40       4.9       4.5       18.1
Market share (Z)                 0         0.7        7.8       3.8        9.1
CNC Controllers
China market                    16.0      27.4        n.a.      n.a.       n.a.
Tianjin sales                    0         0          0         0          0
Market share (S)                 0         0          0         0          0
Servo Motors
China market                    17.7      17.3        n.a.      n.a.       n.a.
Tianjin sales                    0         0          0         0          0
Market share(X)                  0         0          0         0          0
8.        Tianjin's domestic market share during 1987-91 in machining centers,
CNC controllers and servo motors vas negligible. As regards surface grinders,
hydraulic presses and gear cutting machines, Tianjin is a market leader but
its share has remained t*nstable. While Tianjin had some export success in
recent years, the prospects of sizeable exports in the near future to the free
international market are poor because of strong competition from large well-
established multinational companies with extensive dealer networks. To
achieve significant export capability in the long term, the basic thrust of
achievement of competitive strength and subsector development in the 19908
should be the domestic market place. One of Tianjin's greatest obstacles in
achieving competitiveness in the machine tool subsector is below minimum eco-
nomic scale of production particularly in surface grinders and medium size
hydraulic presses which are potential areas for Tianjin'as market share.  The
present scale of production of Tianjin in both these areas is nearly 50 per-
cent of the minimum economic scale. The financial performance of the subsec-



- 64 -                              AfhM  4
tor also Indicates underlying weaknesses. Domestic price. of metal cutting
and metal-forming machine tools are below world prices. At the came time,
machine tools like spiral level gear rougher and hydraulie press earn a nega-
tive gross margin at domestic prices. The majority of the products do not
seen to be viable in economic terms.
Restructurina Needs
9.        The machine tools subsector suffers from shortfalls in production
structure, product and manufacturing technologies, production organization and
management systems. Manufacturing constraints include technological obsoles-
cence, subscale operations, high vertical integration, poor equipment utiliza-
tion and maintenance, excessive overheads, antiquated facilities and layout
and lack of market driven product development. The manufacturing system is an
important area of concern due to inefficient production scheduling levels,
long production cycles and large buffer inventories. Purchases of relatively
small quantities of components by individual enterprises (as against large
purchases by strong commercial corporate groups) afford them very little
leverage with suppliers. The poor quality of control systems in theae enter-
prises also weakens their competitive position. The management information
systems are inadequate and do not permit decision-making based on accurate and
up-to-date data and analysis. The staff training and incentive system also
needs to be improved to promote better operating skills and performance.
Tianjiin's constraints also include lack of international pricing strategy and
insufficient marketing, technical sales and distribution capabilities for
machine tools   An intensive restructuring of the subsector is needed to
introduce modern structure and systems, higher technology products, contem-
porary manufacturing techniques, and product specialization. These changes
will allow the subsector to increase its domestic market share, build up sus-
tainable exports and achieve high levels of profitability for future invest-
ments. The restructuring program for the subsector proposed with the assis-
tance of international consultants provides for considerable change in the
organizational structure, product and market strategies and operational strat-
egy and is reflected in Tianjin government's development program and strate-
gies for the five subsectors.
Investment Plan
10. Consultants have estimated that total investment for the subsector
restructuring would be about $40 million ($32 million In foreign currency and
Y 42 million in local currency).



- 65 -                                       4
Attachbent 1
TW_JI  IUSTRAL DEVR LOPI T PROJICT
Machine Tool Subsector
Factory                                 Product line                           1991 sales  Percent
cr million)
Natal Cuttina Ratesrise
No. I Machin  Tool Works                Gear cutter                               33.8      13.8
Vertical & horizontal uaehine cener       15.7       6.4
Custom gear                              10.5        4.3
No. 2 Mahne Tool Works                  Large lathe                               12.8       5.2
1o. 4 Mschine Tool Works                Radl*l dill.                               2.2       0.9
Vertical machie  cutter                   7.6        3.1
ENM, etc.                                 3.0        1.2
no. 9 Machlne Tool Worku                Sawing & quenching machine                 4.6       1.9
Isatrument Machine Tool Works           Electric discharge wire cutter             8.6       3.5
Natal Fond= nrteDrise
Bydraulic Press No. 1 General Works     Hydraulic press 300-1,000 tOes            77.5      31.7
Hydrauic Press No. 2 General Works      Small Press                                7.2       2.9
Foundry Works                           Casting
Grinder Factory Foundry                 Casting
GrI*dina Entererise
Grinder Machine  ain Workshop           Surface grinder                           20.8       8.5
Accessory Interurise
Machine Tools Optical Instrumeat Works Optical measuring tools                     4.3       1.8
Electromagnetic Plateu Work.            Electromagnetic table                      1.4       0.6
Machine Tool Accessory Works            Machine cutting tools a clapso             4.2       1.7
Component Jig Works                     Clamp set                                  8.9       3.6
Grinding Wheel Work                     Grindia g wheel                           18.2       7.5
Transmissin Works                       Ball screw                                 3.5       1.4
Total                                                                       244.8     _00.0



- 66 -                             ANNE S
CHINRA
TIANJIN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Construction Machinery Subsector
Backzround and Organization
1.        Since the beginning of China's open door policy in the early 1980s
the construction industry has undergone a period of substantial change in size
and scope. Large-scale infrastructure projects are no longer constructed by
mobilizing legions of workers. China is now building high speed roadways,
containerized port facilities and international airports that require advanced
construction techniques and equipment. China's construction equipment indus-
try now has an opportunity to build a manufacturing capacity to meet its
domestic requirements and further consolidate the production base to develop
comparative advantage in export markets.
2.        Tianjin is one of the ten major regions of China producing construc-
tion equipment, and it has a strong base for improving its domestic and inter-
national competitiveness. Tianjin's construction equipment subsector is more
productive than the national average as measured by sales per employee
IY 17,000 per worker versus Y 13,500 per worker). Also, the average sales per
enterprise in Tianjin is much higher (Y 21 million) compared to the national
average (Y 6.6 million). The subsector is represented by 11 enterprises,
10,900 employees, Y 72 million in net fixed assets and Y 290 million in sales
(1991 figures) (Attachment 1). The enterprises include four major manufactur-
ers, two for earth moving equipment, one for material handling equipment and
one for key parts/components, i.e., diesel engines; which are responsible for
79.2 percent of net fixed assets and 86.7 percent of sales of the subsec-
tor.l/ A few small producers of components/parts, lifting equipment, build-
ing material equipment and service/repair support are also included in the
subsector.
Performance of the Subsector
3.        During 1987-91, total sales of Tianjin's construction equipment
industry increased at an average annual rate of 9.2 percent. In terms of
individual major equipments, the growth rates were higher for motor graders
(11.0 percent) and forklifts (8.5 percent) and lower for diesel engines
(4.4 percent), crawler dozers (-8.3 percent), and wheel loaders (-4.0 per-
cent). (The figures are based on sale by numbers.) A comparison of Tisnjin's
national market share of major products during 1987 and 1991 shows an increase
for motor graders, forklifts and diesel engines, and decline for crawler doz-
ers and wheel loaders. The following table shows the relative shift over the
period.
1/   The four major enterprises of the subsector are:  Tianjin Engineering
Machine Factory (TEMP); Tianjin Construction Machine Factory (TCMF);
Tianjin Forklift Factory (T?m); and Tianjin Engine Works (TEW).



-67 -
TIANJIN CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT SUBSECTOR--TRENDS IN MARKET SHARE
OF MAJOR EQUIPMENT
Item                        Total Tianjin sales          Tianjin's market share
(no. of units)                    (1
1987               1991      1987               1991
Motor graders               102                 155      56.0              82.0
Diesel engines            2,644               3,145       7.6               9.0
Forklift trucks             758               1,050       6.0               8.0
Crawler dozers              382                 270      13.0               9.0
Wheel loaders                47                  40       0.7               0.4
The share of Tianjin in China's exports in 1991 was 100 percent for motor
grader., 8 percent for diesel engines and 5.5 percent for forklifts.  There
were no exports of crawler dozers and wheel loaders. Tianjin has a virtual
monopoly in China in the manufacture of motor graders. The only other poten-
tial producer is Changehun where one company has begun to import SKD kits from
German manufacturer (Boukema). Tianjin ranks third in the Chinese market for
diesel engines.
4.        Tianjin's construction equipment subsector has a strong production
base. However, its competitiveness and growth of market share is constrained
by the lack of economies of scale, vertical integration of product lines, low
capital equipment utilization with resultant high production costs, inadequate
diffusion of imported technology, lack of leverage in supply relationships to
obtain cost and delivery advantage in procurement of raw materials and compo-
nents, inadequate allocation of resources where Tianjin has comparative advan-
tage and the lack of market-driven product development. The improvement of
subsector's competitiveness would require reorientation of production and
marketing strategies, transformation of subsector organization to respond to
market signals efficiently, upgrading technology and equipment and strengthen-
ing of organization and management capabilities. Because of the national
character of the subsector, Tianjin's restructuring and development programs
should consider joint relationship with other national manufacturers who have
already developed technology linkages with reputed foreign manufacturers.
Market Develooment
5.        The Chinese construction equipment industry 21 has grown at 16 per-
cent per year since 1984. The overall growth in the manufacture of five prin-
cipal end product markets, has averaged about 20 percent per annum over
21 This includes excavating equipment, shovel equipment, hoisting/compact-
ing/foundation/building renovation/municipal/military construction equip-
ment, railroad equipment, road surfacing equipment, industrial vehicles
and pneumatic tools.



- 68-                               ANNEX 
1986-91. Exports have also increased from insignificant levels while imports
have remained stable during the past three years.  The following table shows
the product-wise position.
CHINESE MAE=T FOR MANN CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
Equipmeat          Production         ExDorts         Imports      Aunarent market
1991  CAGR (2)   1991  CAGR (2)   1991  CAGR (t)   1991  CAGR (X)
(Y M) (1986-91)   (Y M) (1986-91)   (1 K) (1986-91)   (T M) (1986-91)
Bulldozers       1,003  23.2        93   56.8       78   23.8        988  21.3
Diesel engines    770  11.2         35   42.6       8S   18.6        770  10.6
Forklifts          874  11.1        69   48.6       125   27.0       940  11.3
Motor graders      66  32.6          2   26.0       17   12.9         71  26.6
Wheel loaders    1,377  19.2        23   78.1       52  t-)3.0     1,406  17.6
6.        The future market size for construction equipment will be influenced
by infrastructure development, capital investment at the enterprise level and
the overall growth in economy. One of the main users of construction equip-
ment is the roads and highway sector. In the Eighth Five Year Plan, the
national road system is projected to increase by 100,000 km of which 1,000 km
will be high speed roadways. The existing roadways to the tune of 30,000 km
will also be renovated and upgraded. Special attention will be given to the
development of mining industry which is a large user of construction equip-
ment. The increase in freight transport should generate greater demand for
material handling equipment. With this background, the projected Chinese
market growth rates through the year 2000 are 19 percent for motor graders,
9-10 percent for diesel engines, 8-10 percent for forklifts, 7 percent for
crawler dozers and 6-7 percent for wheel loaders.
7.        The global market size for the major construction equipment exceeds
$38 billion, comprising of approximately $8.8 billion for crawler dozers,
$7.4 billion for motor graders, $6.5 billion for wheel loaders, $6.6 billion
for forklifts and $4.7 billion for diesel engines. The market is dominated by
two major companies, Caterpillar and Komatsu, with a combined share of nearly
70 percent which is expected to increase to about 80 percent by 1995. During
the decade of the 1980s, a wave of bankruptcies, consolidation and joint ven-
tures swept the world construction equipment industry In which only six major
competitors remained in competitive position which apart from Caterpillar and
Komatsu include John Deere, Case, Champion and Fiat Allis. Strategic alli-
ances among industry participants have contributed to the globalization pro-
cess. These alliances provide for horizontal integration of products, full
scale merger or sharing of resources, more effective market coverage, greater
value added for end users and reinforced financial strength for manufacturing
enterprises. With global overcapacity and fierce competition, only companies
with versatile product range, high quality product lines and economic produc-
tion scales supported by extensive dealer network and after sales support are
able to compete in the international market. The two major manufacturers,
viz. Caterpillar and Komatsu, have comprehensive marketing plans to pose a
challenge to Chinese manufacturers in their own market. Both corporations
have developed local sales and service networks and extensive technology
transfer relationships with key Chinese manufacturers. A strategy similar to



- 69 -                             ANNEX 5
the foregoing would have to be adopted by Tianjin to face competition and
improve its position in the construction equipment subsector.
Subsector Catabilities and Comuetitiveness
8.        The world leading producers of construction equipment have product
development, manufacturing, marketing and distribution at a very large scale.
Consequently, the development of this industry in China has to achieve econo-
mic level of operation through product specialization and Tianjin's efforts in
this area should be directed at interregional collaboration.
9.        An analysis of Tianjin's subsector capabilities and competitiveness
indicates lack of product focus; satiquated product and process technologies
for the majority of products; suboptimal domestic and export pricing; inade-
quate professional marketing, distribution and after sales support; limited
product development capabilities; low production scales (well below economic
levels); inefficient subsector organization; excessive costs particularly
related to inventories and material scraps; narrow technical relationships and
inefficient absorption, adaptation and commercialization of technologies. For
instance in motor grader production where Tianjin holds virtual monopoly in
China, the technology imported from Orenstein and Koppel of Germany about six
years back has not yet been properly absorbed and commercialized. The present
manufacturing scale is also not economical. Development of other product
lines such as crawler dozers, wheel loadetrs, diesel engines and forklifts
would necessitate additional technology transfer/joint collaboration c-upled
with sharing of production with local partners. Special emphasis needs to be
given to decreasing scrap rates in production shops, lowering inventories and
increasing overall resource utilization. Tianjin should also seek less expen-
sive supplies of materials and better leverage with suppliers of compo-
uentslparts such as heavy duty castings, hydraulic sub-assemblies, etc. Pric-
ing policies must take into account the true cost of resources to the economy.
Restructuring peeds
10.      Despite the constraints under which Tianjin's construction equipment
subsector has been operating, it has a strong base for improving its position.
Tianjin currently enjoys a leading position in motor graders; a significant
position in diesel engines; foreign technical relationships for motor graders,
crawler dozers and forklifts; proximity to research institutes and infrastruc-
ture for manufacturing. The subsector, however, faces many constraints
(paras. 4 and 9) which have resulted in: (a) declining market share for three
of the five major products of the subsector; (b) insufficient funds for future
investments; (c) poor product development 31; and (d) low export capabil-
ity. An intensive restructuring of the subsector is needed to introduce an
integrated national subsector encompassing strategic alliances at regional
levelo, modern corporate structure and systems, upgraded technology, produc-
tivity and product quality, lower manufacturing costs and better market pros-
pects. These changes will allow the subsector to regain and enhance its
I/ Majority of the new products PY 250 and F series motor graders, 245
engine, D60 and D65 crawler dozer., etc., have not progressed beyond
trial production stage).



- 70 -                             MM  E
domeostic market share, build up sustainable exports and achieve high levels of
profitability. A comprehensive restructuring plan therefore has been devel-
oped for the subsector by the Tianjin Machinery Industry Bureau and the
Tianjin Planning Commission with the assistance of international consultants.
The plan consists of changes in the organizational structure, product and
market strategies and operational strategy and is reflected in Tianjin govern-
ment's development program and strategies for the five subsectors.
Investment Plan
11.       Consultants have estimated that total Investment for the subsector
restructuring would be about $135 million ($71 million in foreign currency and
Y 350 million in local currency).



-71 -AE  5
Attacbment 1
IANJIN  LI         IL  DIEVELOPMET PROJECT
Constructon Badplunnt Subsector
S of 1991
Groups                    Products                          sales          EZterprises
Construction equipsent    Crawler dozer                     22.51      TJ Construction Machinery
factory (TCMF)
Motor grader
Wheel loader                     16.00      TJ Engineering Machinery
Factory (TEOF)
Concrete omxer                    1.84      TJ Mixer Works
Subtotal                                              40 35
Industrial equIpment      Forklift                          15.90      TJ Forklift Factory (TFP)
Freight elevator                  3.59      Jlnxiang Machinery Works
Hoist and lift                    1.76      TJ Hoist Works
Subtotal                                               21.25
components                Diesel engines & generators       32.80      TJ En8ine Works (TlW)
Forklift axle                     0.79      Nanjiao Universal Machinery
Works
Hydraulic torque converter        1.47      TJ Hydraulic Macbinery
Works
Subtotal                                               35.06
Others                    Foundries                          _
Gearbox repair                    0.47      No. 2 Gear Repair Works
Radiator                          2.87      Heat Exchange Equipment
Works
Subtotal                                                3.34
Subsector total                                       100.00



- 72 -                             ANNEX 6
IIANJI INDUSTRIAL DEm LOPMENT PROJECT
Automotive Parts Subsector
Subooctor and its Performance
1.        The Tianjin automotive parts subsector is comprised of two groups of
enterprises. The first group consists of 39 enterprises producing a wide
range of automotive parts and components under the Tianjin Automotive Industry
Corporation (TAIC). Outside the supervision of TAIC there is another group of
17 small and cottage enterprises which also produce automotive parts. TAIC is
a bureau-level corporation administered directly by the Tianjin Municipal
Government and acts as an independent economic entity. In addition to automo-
tive parts production, TAIC has five OEM vehicle assembly operations. The
parts and components of TAIC enterprises include electricals, instruments,
axles, transmissions, mechanical assemblies, etc. The second group of 17
automotive enterprises is controlled individually by the Tianjin Municipal
Government through its different bureaus. These enterprises are engaged in
machinery, seving/stitching of seats, reworking rejects, and manufacturing
ancillary products for automotive part enterprises under TIAC. The subsector
contributes 48 percent of the total sales of the Tianjin automotive industry
and employs 35,000 persons and accounts for 12 percent of total employment in
the automotive parts subsector of China. Thus, Tianjin accounts for a signif-
icant portion of the national automotive parts and components subsector.
Attachment I provides the basic data of TAIC plants in the subsector.
2.        The Tianjin automotive industry has experienced steady growth of
about 16 percent during the 1980s. This high growth is due to large expansion
of vehicle output. In 1989, TAIC total vehicle output exceeded 46,000 units.
Vehicle output drives automotive parts output. Thus, the total production
value of automotive parts components has increased sharply. In 1991, TAIC
produced Y 964 million ($175 million) in automotive parts, more than twofold
increase in production compared to 1987. The following table demonstrates the
performance of the Tianjin automotive parts subsector since 1987:



- 73 -                              ANNEX 6
TSANJIN - AUTOMOTIVE PARTS SUBSECTOR PERPORMANCE
Average
annual
1987     1988     1989      1990     1991     growth
_______--_--- (Y million) --------------         (Z)
Automotive Parts
Output                      430      705       767      512      964       22.4
Sales                       542      988    1,040       536      956       15.2
Export                        6        5         4        6         9      10.7
Automotive Industry
Output                      950    1,442    1,522    1,703    3,205        35.5
Sales                     1,159    2,073    2,127    1,784    3,177        28.7
Export                        6       66        10       21       29       48.3
In 1990, Tianjin's automotive industry output value was equivalent to
6.5 percent of the total for China, but the automotive parts subsector's share
in total output value of China was 8.7 percent.
3.        About two thirds of components manufactured by TAIC are sold inter-
nally. The market distribution for two major categories of automotive parts
is very distinct. Ninety percent of the sales of engines in 1989 took place
within the automotive industry whereas remaining automotive parts accounted
for only 35 percent; an additional sale of 1.5 percent for engines and 10 per-
cent for remaining automotive parts. Sales within China other than Tianjin
made up for 8.5 percent for engines and 50 percent for remaining auto parts.
Exports contributed only 5 percent of sales of automotive parts excluding
engines. Export values for automotive parts fluctuated between Y 4 million in
1986 to Y 6 million in 1987, a year when the value of Tianjin automotive
industry exports, especially of vehicles, reached its peak. Export of automo-
tive parts in 1989, was directed to Japan (40 percent), US (15 percent) and
Eastern Asian countries (45 percent).
Harket Develoiment
4.        China's automotive industry experienced rapid growth in the Sixth
Five-Year Plan (1981-85), but growth flattened out during the Seventh Five-
Year Plan (1986-90). The gross output value of the automotive industry grew
at an average annual rate of 30 percent (in constant terms) between 1981 and
1985. However, since 1985 the output value of the industry has remained the
same in constant terms. The production value for automotive parts and compo-



- 74 -                              ANNEX 6
nents reached Y 7.7 billion ($2.1 billion) in 1988. This production has been
about 20-30 percent of the total output value of the automotive industry since
1985, indicating vertical integration within the industry, despite its deep
fragmentation. Fluctuation in vehicle production impacts directly on the
automotive components subsector. The market development is demonstrated in
the following table.
CHINA - AUTOMOTIVE PARTS MARKET
(Y million in constant 1984 terms)
Average
annual
1987     1988     1989      1990     1991     growth
----- (Y million) - - -----------                (X)
Domestic output value    4,727    5,366   11,094   11,306   15,322         34.2
Tmports                   1,254    1,079    1,291    2,283    3,152        25.9
Exports                      49       88       264      438      636       89.8
Domestic consumption      5,922    6,257   12,121   13,151   16,808        29.8
Tianjin market share        266      487       461      432      819       32.5
Between 1984 and 1988, the total national demand for automotive parts
increased by an average of only 2 percent per year. Growth in automotive
parts trade was, nevertheless, vigorous, with imports expanding at 26 percent
per year and exports at 47 percent per year. However, the high volume of
imported automotive parts and volattlity in the vehicle market combined to
yield a 1 percent per year decline in the output value of domestic automotive
pasts subsector. Imports jumped from 6 percent of the automotive parts mar-
kets in 1984 to 17 percent in 1988.
5.        There is a tremendous need to strengthen the domestic market posi-
tion of the Tianjin automotive parts subsector. The subsector is severely
undercapitalized. Although the production of automotive parts has made possi-
ble a high growth rate (20 percent) between 1984-88, its market share in terms
of production value has increased from 4 percent in 1984 to only 8 percent in
1988. The price structure of Tianjin automotive parts subsector is very com-
plex. There are many price tiers for automotive components. Prices for auto-
motive parts vary widely depending upon specific products. In general, domes-
tic market prices are often higher than export prices (for example, coil
springs, radiators and horns) due to low production volumes and high per unit
production costs. However, for some components such as gears, ignition coils
and automotive bolts, the export prices are higher than local market prices,
indicating good export potential. As indicated earlier, about two thirds of
components manufactured in TAIC enterprises are sold internally, the remaining
portion is sold directly in local market. Therefore, TAIC did not see the



- 75 -                             AIMEX 6
need to develop a national sales, distribution and service network. In order
to specialize its production and develop economies of scale in automotive
parts, Tianjin automotive parts industry must develop new market channels.
Development of sales and service centers is still at an early stage and needs
to be accelerated.
6.        The expansion of the domestic market for automotive parts during the
1990. wl  be driven primarily by growth in OEM vehicle manufacture.  In 1988,
the China National Automotive Industry Corporation developed an overall plan
for development of domestic automotive production which calls for expansion of
current capacity from 650,000 vehicles in 1988 to 1.2 million vehicles in 1995
and 1.7 million in the year 2000. The plan also calls for a shift in the
program from medium and heavy trucks to light trucks and passenger cars. This
strategy, if implemented, implies growth in OEM automotive parts demand of 9
percent per year between 1990 and 2000, significantly higher than the 1.6
percent growth of component demand between 1984 and 1988. It has been esti-
mated that the national components market in constant 1988 prices would be in
the range of Y 13-16 billion ($2.8-3.4 billion) in 1995. The key success
factor for Tianjin in the national automotive components market during the
1990s will be the ability to sell to the large and growing OEM vehicle assem-
blies outside Tianjin through economies of scalo, international quality and
competitive price levels.
Spbsector CaRabilities and Competitiveness
7.        As the automotive parts subsector in Tianjin competes in fragmented
markets, its products form only 10 percent of national total and do not have a
strong competitive position in China market. Only limited automotive parts
such as rear axle gears, brake tubing and coil springs play a somewhat compet-
itive role in terms of output volume. In order to compete efficiently,
Tianjin must expand its production of high potential products for the domestic
market place. The main Chinese competitors surpass Tianjin's production by a
factor of more than two. Without increased production capacity, the subsector
vill be unable to decrease costs sufficiently to penetrate the major OEMs in
the domestic market. On the technology front, inadequate efforts have been
made to develop local components meeting world standards. As no sigaificant
investment in research and development or in acquisition of technology has
been made so far, Tianjin must rely on foreign technical relationships for new
product and process technologies. Although Tianjin has a license for zomplete
vehicle technology through its relationship with Daihatsu, none of the automo-
tive parts enterprises reported a direct licensing arrangement with Daihatsu
or any other of its suppliers. Tianjin relationships are just starting. It
has recently established a joint venture to manufacture filters and few other
products, but these investments comprise only a fraction of the subsector.
Attracting new foreign investment from foreign component manufactures will be
difficult as many domestic components manufactures in China are competing for
foreign collaborations.
8.        Quality of inputs directly affects the cost and quality of manufac-
tured products. In this regard, the high proportion of costs allocated to
material and energy, greater shortages of inputs, and low scale of production
add to a low degree of competitiveness. At present, there are only a few
individual products, where Tianjin can reach a minimum efficient scale, given



- 76 -                             AM L 6
the projected domestic demand of such products in 1995. In order to broaden
its product range with economic scale, Tianjin would have to export a substan-
tial share of its production. Although Tianjin has three automotive tech-
nology research institutes, none of them specializes in automotive parts, but
on the whole the existing lnfrsstructure support can be well developed in the
context of Tianjin automotive parts development. These weaknesses need to be
addressed in a successful restructuring progrsm.
Restructurina Need
9.        Broad measures are necessary to overcome the subsector's weaknesses.
These includes competitive product systems; increased capacities to reach
minimum economic scale; improved efficiency and productivity; imported tech-
nologiest strengthened marketing and commercial relationship; and efficient
subsector organization. 7TG In consultation with foreign consultants has
developed a restructuring plan which foresees improved subsector competitive-
ness in domestic and export markets, and high comparative advantage of poten-
tial products and is reflected in Tianjin Government's development program and
strategies for the five subsectors.
Investment Plan
10.       Consultants have estimated that the total investment for the subsec-
tor restructuring would be about $71 million ($55 million in foreign currency
and Y 85 million in local currency).



- 77 -                               hUANNEXL 6
Attacbment I
IAIL DDUSIRI4 DEVELOPT PROJECT
Automotive Parts Subsector
.~~~C t
S of
1991     1991
Subeyti         prduct                           Enterprise                    sales      sales
(Y 1,000)
1. Drive Train                                                                               24.57
Axle S differential bhmaing    Auto Axle Works                 65,500     10.80
for Daita  van & truck
Gearbox S bevl g"rs             Auto Gear Works                46,000      7.59
Axle G  ifferetlal housing      Du  and Van Axle Works         23,600      3.89
for 8afeg m           cha.
rdo he   suport
Propeller *haft                 Auto Transmission Shaft        13,900      2.29
Works
2. Auto glse-                                                                                13.72
trical
Ignition coil                   Ignltion Coil Works            19,490      3.21
tvitch a hor,                   Transportation Equipment       18,707      3.08
Works
Wiper & washer                  Auto Wiper Work.               13,320      2.20
Regulator & distributor         Auto Electric Equipment        11,200      1.85
Works
Magneto, fan motor S magnet    Magnetic Motor Works            11,190      1.85
clutch
Startet & generator             Englne Electric Machine         9,280      1.53
Works
3. ngine Parts                                                                               13.47
Water pump                      Water Pump Works               30,450      5.02
Radiator                        Radiator Works                 17,161      2.83
Piaton                          Piston Work.                   10,250      1.69
Rimg & thermostat               Piston RIng Works               7,938      1.31
Oil p_p, bolt & nut             Internal Combustion Engine      6,800     31.12
Nut Works
Piston pln, valves              Internal Combustion Enlgne      6,280      1.00
Attachbent Works
Connecting rod                  Connecting Rod Works            2,860      0.47
4. Interior                                                                                  11.72
Trim
Seating & iterior trm           Auto Trim Work.                68,000     11.21
Sunshade board                  Bo. 4 Auto Accessory Works      3,100      0.51
S. rake                                                                                       8.38
Band brake                      No. 2 Auto Accessory Works    24,700       4.07
Urake cylinders, clutch         No. 5 Auto Accessory Works    13,600       2.24
Bra"e line                      Auto Brake loes Works           6,900      1.14
lond brtke line                 Auto Flexible shaft Works       5,600      0.93
6. Suspeonson                                                                                 7.03
Leaf spring                     Leaf Spring Works              19,734      3.25
Sbocks                          Auto Shock Absorber Works      17,600      2.90
Coil sprig                      Auto Spring Works               5,308      0.88
7. Wheel           Auto vbel                       Auto Wheel Factory             41,250      6.80



- 78 -                               ANN         6
Attachment 1
Z of
1991     1991
subsystem       Product                          Enterprise                     sales     sales
(Y 1,000)
8. Others                                                                                     3.36
Auto lock                       Auto Look Works                11,930      1.97
Iron casting piece              Auto Foundry Works              4,700      0.78
Precise casting plece           Auto Precision Foundry          3,720      0.61
Works
9. Steering                                                                                   3.13
Steering gear                   Steeraing Gear Works           10,800      1.78
Steering vheel                  Auto Plastic Part Works         8,200      1.35
10. LightIng
Auto lamp                       Auto Lamp Works                15,264      2.52
11. Fuel                                                                                      2.46
uel pump                        Fuel Pmp Works                  5,800      0.96
Carburetor                      Auto Carburetor Works           5,400      0.89
Oil & fuel filter               Oil Filter Works                2,400      0.40
Air filter                      Auto Air Filter Works           1,300      0.21
12. Instrument     Auto Instrument                 Auto Instrument Works          10,400      1.72
13. Clutch         Clutch assembly                 No. 1 Auto Accessory Works      6,780      1.12
14. Body                                           OEM                                 0        0
15. Chassis                                        OEM                                 0        0
16. Exhaust                                        OE                                 0        0
17. Air con-                                       Outsourced                          0        0
ditioning
18. Battery                                        Outsourced                          0        0
Charging
System
19. Audio Sys-                                     Outsourced                          0        0
tem
Total                                                                       606.412    100.00



- 79 -                             AMEL 7
TNAMEIN INDUSTRIAL DEVIELOPHENT PROJECT
Electronics Components Subsector
Organizat ion and Performance
1.        The electronics components subsector is a part of the electronics
industry. It includes passive electronics components J/ but excludes active
electronics components such as transistors and integrated circuits, etc., as
well as electricals components. The electronics industry is managed by the
Tianjin Electronics and Instruments Administration Bureau which includes 198
enterprises and employs about 100,000 persons. These enterprises are orga-
nized in 40 group companies which report directly to the Bureau. The group
companies have overall financial and planning control of their enterprises,
but the individual enterprises maintain separate management functions and some
autonomy in decision making relating to product development, process techno-
logy, personnel, sales and marketing, etc. These group companies have a
strong administrative relationship with the Bureau which has recently made
plans to merge them into one corporation with each of the 40 companies
reporting to product-specific business units.
2.        The passive components subsector has 12 enterprises which employed
20,000 persons in 1991. The subsector had a total sale of Y 145 million in
1991. Attachment 1 shows the main products and sales of individual enter-
prises.
3.        Tianjin's passive components subsector is only 3.2 percent of the
national passive components industry, measured in terms of output value.
Although the industry has relatively small output share, it ranks fourth when
compared to other cities in China and ninth, when compared to other provinces.
4.        The following table shows the development of the subsector and ite
major product groups:
XI These includes: capacitors, resistors, potentiometers, connectors and
switches, control devices, transformers and magnetic devices, speaker and
acoustic devices, and crystal devices.



- 80 -                             AMIh 7
TIAWJIN: ELECTRONIC PASSIVE COMPONENTS SUSSECTOR
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Volume o'. Production (million pieces)
Capacitors                               200.2   226.3   189.7   265.6   250.9
Resistors/potentiometers                  498.3   602.3   487.4   461.0   603.6
Connectors/switches                        40.2    51.4    41.3    42.1    39.4
Control devices                             3.0     4.4   n.ea.    UO& na e*
Transformers/magnetic devices              29.6    43.8    39.5    43.8    59.3
Speakers/acoustic devices                  6.6      7.5     4.4     4.1     4.4
Crystal devices                             8.2    10.5    11.7    10.2    12.7
Tianjin's passive components subsector has experienced a marginal erosion in
domestic market share (from 4 percent in 1988 to about 3.2 percent In 1991)
owing to a faster pace of expansion of the electronics Industry in some other
provinces. Tianjin's passive components subsector, although low In output
value by world standards, has fairly large-sized capacity eompared to the
national level.
Market Development
5.        The electronics subsector in China consists of over 3,000 enter-
prises employing approximately 1.5 million people. The production of passive
components in 1991 was valued at about Y 5 billion. Capacitors, acoustic
assemblies, and resistors are the three largest segments of the Industry con-
tributing 33 percent, 23 percent and 10 percent respectively of the total
passive components market. China has a strong domestic market capability for
the passive components. It has developed rapidly and resulted in substantial
import substitution and enhanced potential for exports. The national market
situation 1988 was as follows:
CHINA - MARKET FOR SELECTIVE PASSIVE COMPONENTS, 1991
($ million)
Production       Imports       Exports
Aluminum electrolytic capacitors           167.8            no&*         48.2
Fixed resistors                          ) 324.0           nuas          31.1
Potentiometers resistors                 )
China has been able to develop electronics industry to substantially meet
domestic demand for passive components. However, the Industry suffers from
many problems, Including fragmented production, lack of specialization, exces-



-8-                                A        7
sive vertical Integration, low labor productivity, uneven product quality, and
low technological capability.
6.        While there Is severe fragmentation at the enterprise level, the
Chinese market is consolidated in geographical terms. Enterprises in Jiangsu,
Guangdong, Shanghai, Beijing and Tianjin produce about 70 percent of the major
pas8ive components. Regions such as Jiangsu and Guangdong have grown more
rapidly and produe- a selected variety of products at higher production vol-
umes with new equipment and facilities, and have taken the leadership role in
production of major passive components.
7.        Globally, the passive component industry has been experiencing a
stable, if not declining, market. The largest segments are connectors, wire
and cables, capacitors, transformers and resistors. In the US market, these
five components represent 80 percent of total passive component sales. Over
the last ten years, new technologies in resistors and capacitors have started
penetrating the global market. These technologies have altered the economics
of electronic assembly manufacturing. Industrialized countries have taken the
lead in the production of these technological products and the global market
conditions have become highly competitive. In order to penetrate the export
market, China has to make tremendous efforts to develop economies of scale,
bring product quality to International standard, and introduce modern and
reliable technologies.
Tianlin's Subsector Canabilities and Constraints
8.        As mentioned above, Tianjin's passive components subsector has a
relatively small market share, which has declined slightly in recent years.
The diversified product range of Tianjin's passive component industry does not
allow Tianjin to play a major role in any of the major products except leaded
resistors where Tianjin occupies about 7 percent of national market and is the
market leader, thus providing a production volume advantage over other Chinese
provinces. Tianjin ranks fourth in capacitors, however, it has the potential
to build strong consolidated production. While restructuring, consolidation,
and upgrading of leaded component production is an important priority for
Tianjin, it should start the development of surface mounted technology (SMT)
components which are going to rapidly replace leaded components in world mar-
kets. In the global market, Tianjin is poorly positioned to compete effec-
tively. It has achieved some export success in leaded resistors but it has
been at relatively low-volume levels. The relatively large size of the domes-
tic market would be an important factor for Tianjin in determining long-term
export potential. It can gain competitive advantage from the large size of
domestic leaded components markets, provided it restructures its industry and
increases its domestic market share significantly. Also, the relationship
with foreign companies for equipment purchases and technology acquisition
needs to be strengthened for products in which Tianjin has strong potential to
increase its competitive position, both in domestic and export markets.
9.         Tianjin enterprises do not meet world standards in production
scale.  For example, Tianjin Radio Components Factory No. 9 produces 500 mil-
lion resistors annually whereas a typical resistor plant outside China pro-
duces 1.5-2 billion pieces annually and large plants produce as many as 8
billion pieces annually. In addition to technologically backward operation



- 82 -                             ANNEX 7
processes, manufacturing is hampered by poorly maintained and outdated process
equipment. Besides, the subsector suffers from inadequate management systems
and marketing networks. As a result of the above weaknesses, subsector prod-
ucts are not cost effecient and competitive.
Restructuring Needs
10.      Despite the above-mentioned weakness, Tianjin offers strong develop-
ment potential for electronics because of an established industrial base,
significant capital investment in electronics over the past 10 years, growing
interest of foreign investors, support from the central and municipal govern-
ments, and its coastal location. An efficient restructuring of the subsector
vould introduce modern structures, upgraded and high technological products
and modern manufacturing techniques. These changes will allow the subsector
to regain and expand its domestic market share, build up exports, and achieve
profitability for future investments. Consultants have prepared comprehensive
restructuring plans to accelerate Tianjin's development of passive components
and these are reflected in Tianjin government's development program and strat-
egies for the five subsectors.
Investment Plan
II.       Consultants have estimated that the total investment for the subsec-
tor restructuring would be about $44 million ($36 million in foreign currency
and Y 45 million in local currency).



- 83 -                                   AM          7
Attacbment
TUIJIN  IDUSTRIAL  DEVELOPMENT PROJEC
Passive Comnonep_ts Subsector
1991 sales    2 of 1991
Product                                 Enterprise                            (Y'000)         sales
1.  Capacitor                                                                  58,177         40.07
1.1 Alwmnm electrolytic capacitor                                              32,103         22.11
Ti Radlo Component Works No. 14       22,839         15.76
Ti Radio Component Works No. 1         8,356          5.75
Ti Radio Component Works No. 12          928          0.60
1.2 Variable capacitor                  Ti Radio Component Works No. 2         18,664         12.88
1.3 Monolithic/ceramic disc capacitor                                           6.018          4.13
Ti Radio Component Works No. 15        4,803          3.30
XEsTong Resistor Company               1,000          0.69
Ti Radio Component Works No. 20          215          0.14
1.4 Thin film capacitor                 Ti Radio Component Works No. 16         1,392         0.95
2.  Delay llne                          TJ Radio Component Works No. 6         28,862         19.90
3.  Film resistor                                                              19,119         13.18
TJ Radio Component Works No. 9        14,317          9.87
XinTong Resistor Company               4,802          3.31
4.  Potentiomerer                       TJ Radio Component Works No. 10        14,749         10.17
S.  Inductor, transformer               TJ Radio Component Works No. 3         12,040          8.31
6.  Others                              Electronic Component Set Sales
Company                               11,924          8.22
Total                                                                    145.035        .00.00



- 84 -                             ANNEX 8
TIANJIN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Electric Motors Subsector
Background and Organization
1.        China's electrical machinery industry has a history of over 70
years. There are more than 900 enterprises manufacturing electrical machinery
in China. Of these, 397 enterprises including 286 electric motor manufactur-
ing works are under MMEI. These 270 enterprises had over 200,000 employees
and fixed assets of Y 2,578 million ($507 million) in 1991. The national out-
put of AC motors in 1988 was 34,000 MW and increased at the rate of 9 percent
per year from 1985 to 1988. Small- and medium-sized AC motors contributed to
62 percent of this output.
2.        The geographical distribution of electric motors production in China
is as follows:
Percent of
national output
East                               S0
South-center                       29
southwest                          12
Northwest                           9
3.        The Tianjin electrical machinery industry is over 40 years old.  It
began with a number of small repair shops engaged in the rewinding of electric
motors, and gradually developed into an electric motor manufacturing industry.
In 1991, the industry employed 3,000 workers and had sales revenues of
Y 75 million ($19 million), with fixed assets of Y 50 million ($8 million).
Its total output was 540 MW.
4.       Within the electric motor subsector, there are four enterprises, of
which the largest is Daming Electrical Machinery Corporation (DEMC). The
other three enterprises are operating as collectives. DEEC has over
80 percent of the subsector's output and 68 percent of its employees. Further
discussion on this subsector would be limited to DEMC.
Performance
S.        DEMC was established in 1952 and produces electric motors from
0.5 kW to 18.5 kW. DEEC's sales revenues grew at an average annual rate of
over 13 percent from 1987 to 1991. In 1991, DEMC's sales were Y 52 million
($9 million) and fixed assets Y 23 million ($5 million), with 1,768 employees.
DEMC's exports grew rapidly from 1985 and reached a level of $2.7 million in
1989, representing 40 percent of its output in physical terms (152 MW out of a
total production of 382 MW). In the past two years, however, exports have



-85 -                              ANM  a
declined. In 1986, DEMC was recognized as an exporting enterprise and permit-
ted to retain a obare of its foreign exchange earnings.
6.        The domestic market for electric motors in the 0.5-18.5 kW range is
served by a large number of manufacturers. Although the primary focus of
these manufacturers is to meet the requirements of their regional markets,
they are increasingly serving markets beyond their own region. Due to the
very large number of enterprises engaged in this field, and the resulting
fragmented market structure, none of the electric motor manufacturers has a
dominant market share. It is evident from Table 1, which represents the over-
all market shares in the domestic market of China's leading electric motor
manufacturers.
Table It DOMESTIC MARRET SHARES 01 ELECTRIC
MOTOR MANUFACTURERS
Name of enterprise                Percent market share
Dalian Motor Factory                        5.60
Beijing Motor Factory                       4.72
Xian Motor Factory                          3.20
Shanghai Yuejin Motor Factory              2.20
Bachan Motor Factory                        2.10
Hebei Motor Factory                         1.80
Daming Electric Motor Factory (DEMC)        1.65
DBMC is not in a position to meet the total requirements of motors in Tianjin
due to its limited production capacity.
7.        DEMC's manufacturing equipment and product technology lag consider-
ably behind current international standards. Some domestic manufacturers such
as Shanghai Yuejin Motor Factory have entered into technology-transfer agree-
ments with foreign manufacturers (Yuejin with ABB), and have better designs
and production facilities. DEMC's capacity of around 400 motors per day
places it at the lower end of the economic scale for manufacturing motors of
0.5-18.5 kW size.
Market Develoiment
8.        The global market for electric motors increased at an annual rate .-f
3 percent during the 1980s. The growth rate in China was much higher with an
annual growth of over 8 percent. In lin with the projected growth in indus-
trial development in China, a similar growth rate is projected for the next
decade. China leads Japan In total output of electric motors.
9.        Global imports of electric motors of all sizes is over $7 billion,
with the European Community accounting for over 30 percent of the total. For
Chinese manufacturers, Hong Kong, which accounts for 2 percent of the world
trade in electric motors ($140 million), currently provides the largest poten-
tial market. Hong Kong's imports of motors from China represented nearly



-86 -                              ANNEX 8
40 percent of all its imports ($59 million). Of this, import of electric
motors of smaller sizes from China to Hong Kong was $9 million. DENC exported
$2.7 million of these small motors to Hong Kong in 1989.
10.       Besides Hong Kong, the four Southeast Asian countries--Singapore,
Malaysia, Thailand and Philippines--are large importers of electric motors
with imports averaging over $200 million annually. Thus, the electric motor
industry in China has a good potential for continued growth to meet the
requirements of the rapidly growing domestic market and for exports, particu-
larly to Southeast Asian countries.
DEMC's Cavabilities and Compoetitiveness
11.       DEMC manufactures the Y-series AC motors.  The Chinese Y-series
motor is a unified design developed by the Shanghai Electric Science Research
Institute. The motor conforms to IEC standards and its performance in terms
of efficiency and power factors compares favorably vith European designs.
However, its design is nearly 30 to 40 percent heavier than the comparable
designs of world leaders in this industry. It is also slightly more noisy in
operation.
12.       To increase its potential for exports in markets other than South-
east Asia, DEMC needs to manufacture not only motors of updated designs, but
also to NEMA standards and suitable for 60 Hertz applications (for North
American markets). The present insulation in the motors restricts their use
to applications in which the temperature rise is less than 45∞C and needs to
be upgraded.
13.       DEMC's manufacturing technology dates to the early 1960.. It is
characterized by the use of strip stock to make laminations in single-stroke
presses; general-purpose machine tools; labor-intensive operations; simplistic
production and inventory controls; and inadequate quality control. Its cur-
rent scale of operations is on the low side. Plant management is weak in some
key areas.
14.       DEMC has been able to export its products by accepting 20 to 30 per-
cent lower prices than the better-quality motors of similar specifications.
DEMC's prices in the domestic market are competitive.
15.       Due to its outdated manufacturing facilities, DEMC has a 5 percent
higher ratio of manufacturing cost to sales revenue compared with competitors
such as Shanghai Yuejin. The low sales realization and higher manufacturing
costs have had an adverse impact on DEMC's financial performance.
RestructurinA Needs
16.      Almost all the input resources required for the manufacture of elec-
tric motors are available from domestic sources. With the right designs, pro-
duction facilities and manpower, the manufacture of motors of small size, due
to their relatively low international price, should provide a potential for
comparative advantage to China. This arises from the very low costs incurred
in personnel expenses in China.



- 87 -                             ANNEX 8
17.       The projected growth rates ln the domestic and export markets pro-
vide an opportunity for DEMC for profitable expansion of its operations. How-
ever, this would be possible only throudh an intensive restructuring of the
enterprise. A complete revamping of production facilities, product designs
and managerial structure is considered essential for successful restructuring.
These factors point to the need for associating a strong joint-venture partner
who would not only bring in the investment, but would provide the management,
product designs and manufacturing technology and equipments, as well as access
to global markets. The latter is necessary if DEMC is to operate at an eco-
nomic level. The proposed restructuring plan for DEMC prepared by consultants
takes the above factors into account and is reflected in Tianjin government's
development program and strategy for the five subsectors.
lnvestment Plan
18.       Consultants have estimated the total investment for restructuring at
about $19 million ($16 million in foreign currency and Y 16 million local cur-
rency).



- 88 -                          ANNEXM 4
TIANJIN INDUSTRIAL DKVELOPNENT PROJECT
Institutlonal Infrastuguture and its Develooment Program
A. Backaround
l.        In addition to the assistance to be provided by TIDP for the overall
restructuring of the five subsectors, the project will assist in the develop-
ment of support institutions through the establishment of Technical Centers in
new corporations and the strengthening of Vocational Training Institutions in
selected subsectors.
2.        The establishment of Technical Centers will strengthen the ability
of the subsectors to absorb foreign technology and would lay the foundation
for self-sustaining technological growth. In addition, these centers would
assist the top management of the subsectors' corporations in the development
and implementation of related engineering and management systems, which would
enhance their operational performance and international competitiveness. The
goal is to create "centers of excellence' which act as catalytic agents to
facilitate the management of many changes associated with restructuring opera-
tions. In order to give due recognition to the importance of the role of the
Technical Center, the Read of the Technical Center would be responsible to the
President of the Corporation.
3.        Tianjin is well-endowed in terms of vocational training at the pre-
employment stage and on-the-job training. There is, however, need for ratio-
nalization and strengthening of these institutions rather than the setting up
of new training facilities.
4.        The recommendations relating to the design of Technical Centers and
the strengthening of Vocational Training Institutions have been developed
jointly by the subsectors and the consultants, and revieved by Bank staff.
B. Concent of Technical Centers
5.        The principal function of Technical Centers is to provide support
services in the following areas:
*    technology absorption, product engineering and development
e    process and systems development
*    information and planning systems
6.        Technologv Absorption. Product Eniineerins and Development_.  The
primary objective is to accelerate the absorption and application of technolo-
gies acquired under technology transfer and joint-venture agreements and to
keep abreast of new technical developments in subsectoral products. Research
staff and technical specialists at the centers vould provide services in areas



- 89 -                          ANX 9
such as stress analysis, modeling, dynamices and vibration, tribology and wear,
hydraulics, fatigue systems, materials and metallurgy, etc., as may be rele-
vant to the design of the subsector's products.
7.        The Head of the Technical Center would establish strong linkages and
rapport with national and regional research institutes, especially those in
the Tianjin-Beijing area. He/she would ensure that the services and facili-
ties available at these institutes are appropriately utilized, thus avoiding
duplication and achieving cost-effectiveness.
8.        The existing design institutes within the subsector enterprises
would continue to operate at their present locations. At present, these
design institutes are mainly engaged in product performance and test work.
Some of the laboratory equipment proposed to be acquired by a Tochnical Center
may be physically located within the enterprise design institutes if such
location would lead to more effective utilization of this equipment. To
ensure coordination of product development activities, the Head of the enter-
prise design institute would report on a functional basis to the Head of the
Technical Center.
9.        Process and Systems Develonment.  The Technical Center would assume
responsibility for the development of following systems:
*    developing CAD/CAE capability including computer software for design
applications
-    develop capability for adaptation of CNC systems for machine tools
maufactured by the subsector
*    establish product standards
*    establish quality assurance systems
*    set up computer-aided machining and manufacturing process laboratory
to improve productivity of CNC machining, metal cutting, welding,
etc.
*    establish data banks and data bases for keeping track of technology
developments
10.       Manatement Information and Planning Systems.  The Technical Center
will assist top management in the development of corporate strategies and
operational plans. It will institute management and cost-accounting systems,
keep track of competition and long-term trends and forecasts of domestic and
global demands for the subsector's products and collect market intelligence.
11.       The precise range of services and activities of the respective Tech-
nical Centers would be established during project implementation and would be
tailor-made to the needs of each subsector corporation.
12.       Technical Centers would be supported under TIDP for the machine
tool, construction equipment, and auto-parts subsector corporations. In the
case of electric motors and passive resistor and capacitor components, techni-



-90 -                           AML 9
cal centers are not being included because the concerned corporations would be
established as joint ventures with leading international foreign companies.
Foreign partners normally provide the requisite institutional framework for
technology absorption and management information systems.
13.       Technical Center Staff.  The staff for the Technical Center would be
carefully selected from among the best talent available within the subsector
enterprises, regional and national institutes, and from enterprises outside
the fivo subsectors. Rey staff members would be provided with suitable train-
ing to enable them to perform their functions efficiently.
14.       Investment.  The projected investment in Technical Centers is $11.50
million in foreign currency and Y 25.07 million in local currency. Details of
these investments are provided in Attachment 1 to this annex.
C. Vocational Training Institutions
15.       Based on the analysis of the t.aining facilities existing in Tianjin
and within the enterprises, it has been concluded that there is no need for
establishing new training institutions. However, there is need for strength-
ening the existing training institutions.
16.       It is proposed to provide equipment, teaching aids, video, slide and
overhead projectors; computer hardware and software, etc.; and books and peri-
odicals to the following training institutes:
*    Tianjin Mechanical and Electric Institute
*    Machine Tools - Technical Workers School
-    Construction Equipment - Technical Workers School
*    Electric Motors - Technical Workers School and Second Technical
School
17.       The projected investment in vocational training is estimated at
$300,000 In foreign currency and Y 2.1 million in local currency. Details of
this estimate are provided in Attachment 2 of this annex.
18.       Charge-Back System for Services Rendered by Technical Centers and
Vocational Trainint Institutes. Services provided by the above institutions
would be on the basis of charging the beneficiaries for the services rendered.
The system of appropriate charges for respective services would be established
during the project implementation stage.



- 91 -                         ANLA
Attachment 1
TIANJIN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOFNENT PROJECT
Develonment of SuiDport Institutions
A. Machine Tools Subsector
1.        Baketround.  The national and regional research institutions sup-
porting the machine tools subsector are the following:
*    Tianjin Gear Cutting Machine Tools Research Institute
c    Tianjin Hydraulic Press Research Institute
*    Tianjin Precision Grinder Research Institute
*    Beijing Machine Tool Research Institute
*    Jinan Casting and Forging Machinery Research Institute
*    xian Microelectric Motor Research Institute
2.        Entergrise-Based Desisn Institutes.  There are four enterprise-based
design institutes with the following structure:
2zisting institutes          Location       Space (M2)   Staff   Capability
Gear Cutting Machine Tool  NO. I MT           2,700       125    * Testins and design
Research Institute                                               * Computer for cal.
culation only
Branch Laboratory Beijing  No. 4 MT            120        18    * Testing and design
Machinery Tool Research
Institute
Hydraulic Press Research   Hydraulic Press    2,100       53    * Testing and design
Institute                                                        * Computer for cal-
culation only
Precision Griuder Research    Grinder Works    550        33    * Testing and design
lastitute
These institutes are mostly engaged in design and some prototype and modeling
activities. Considering the limited tools and facilities these institutes
possess, they have made some useful contributions in terms of new designs and
developments. The Gear Cutting Institute is designing CNC bevel-gear genera-
tors and new high-speed gear shapers. In the case of hydraulic press, the
Institute has designed larger-size, new PC and CNC presses for special appli-
cations for powder metal and grinding wheel applications. The Branch Labora-
tory of the Beijing Machine Tool Research Institute undertakes the core design
of the machining centers produced by the No. 4 Machine Tool Works, in close
coordination with its headquarters in Beijing. In the case of grinders, the
Institute will be phased out in line with the product strategy for this prod-
uct.



- 92 -                        ANNEX 9
Attachment 1
3.        tachie Tool Technical Genter.  A new technical support center would
be set up for the machine tools subsector and will be part of the Tianjin
Machine Tools Corporation. One of the primary tasks of this center will be
new product development, while the design functions will remain with divi
sional research institutes (such as Sear cutting, machine centers, hydraulic
press and surface grinders).
4.        The center will have several functions including performance test-
ing, technical library maintenance, design optimizatiou, material testtng,
engineering and manufacturing software application and development, precision
measurement, certification sensing and metrology, CICIDNC and Servo applica-
tion, meetings and seminar, etc. This will be a center for technology absorp-
tion, digestion and dissemination of machine tool research, design and devel-
opment andlor metal processing advancement. It would have a staff of 60-70
pet'sons.
5.        Provosed Investment.  Details of the laboratory equipment and other
facilities are as followsz
$ mln  Y min    $ min
(equiv.)
Land. Enaineering Buildlna. Plant and Layout
Land: this will be erected in the site belonging to
the vacated No. 4 Machine Tool site which will be
eventually the site for the Machine Center Division  -       -       -
Buildings (1,000 m2)                                    -      0.70    0.13
Laboratory Ecmuiment (Hardware)
Machine tools pesformance laboratory
Lab interferometer for position error                 0.08
High-precision (0.001-0.0001 mm) electrical and
mechanical dial gauge                               0.02
Electronic level                                      0.01
Vibration, acoustic tester                            0.04
Generating path tester                                0.03
Gear train accuracy tester                            0.08
Frequency analyzer and various kinds of sensor, etc. 0.10
Thermal deformation testing system                           0.15
Technical library
Computer information retrieval system                        0.05
Video system                                          0*05
Design analysis and design optimization lab
Workstation                                           0.02
Computer for computer software development
6 sets of 80386/80486                                        0.12
Workstations (CAD FM,, etc.)                          0.02



93 -                        AM111 9
Attachment 1
$ mln  Y mln    $ miln
(equiv.)
Metallurgical and material lab
Metagraphic                                                 0.10
Spectrometer (share with university)
Precision measurement, metrology and standard
Laser equipment                                             0.08
Conventional                                                0.10
3D CME                                                      0.50
CECDNCI, servo and autoemtion component application
lab (this lab will only do benchmark testing. The
complete machine tool application testing will be
performed in the main Maehine Tool Performance Lab)
conventional                                              0 10
Test rig                                                  0.10
Subtotal                                       0.45   1.30    0.69
Computer Utilization. Technical Assistance. Porelmn
Technoloer. Trainina Needs
Computer software (hardware Included in the equipment
list                                                 0.15   0.50
Technical publicatioas, trainuig software, books,
subscriptions, etc.                                  0.20
International manufacturing society, long-term member-
ship, etc*                                           0 20
Subtotal                                       0.55   0.50    0.64
Total                                          1.00   2.50    0.46
Contingencies                                            0.15  0.38    0.07
Total Investmnt                                1_15    0853
S. Construction Eaui_ment Subsector
6.        Background. The national and regional research Institutions sup-
porting the construction oquipment subsector are the following:
*   Tianjin Engineering Mechinery Research Institute
*    Changsha Construction Equipment Research Institute
*    Transport Equipment Research Institute - Forklift Branch
*    Shanghai Internal Construction Engine Research Institute
*    Tianjin Forklift Research Institute
*    Tianjin Machine Technology Information Institute



- 94 -                        MM  9
Attachment 1
*    Tianjin Research Institute of Construction Machinery (TRICM)
7.        Enterprise-Based Desian Institute.  At present, crawlers, graders
and forklifts in Tianjin have their own design and development facilities,
with the following structures
Research
Entineerint       institute
m      Staff     m!    Staff   Capability
Graderiloader      900      97                     Design, prototype, hydrau-
lics
Crawler            900      85                     Power train tests, design,
hydraulics
Forklift           600      46     400       58    Power train tests, test
ground
Diesel engine    3,700     135                     Design, test lab, design (2)
386
The engineering capability of each of these equipment divisions is limited to
design and testing functions, based on imported product technology. They have
some "re-engineering" capability in applying the imported technology to the
extended product line. The product technology comes from Komatsu, Balkancar,
Faun, etc. Their new diesel design 115 series is influenced by John Deere and
Ricardo. The Tianjin Forklift Research Institute is a regional institute
located at the Forklift factory. It is functioning as a design office for the
Balksncar.
8.        Construction EcuiDment Technical Center. The Technical Center will
be set up in the Construction Equipment Corporation and will serve all its
divisions in the areas of engineering, manufacturing, management, marketing,
cost accounting, productivity and quality technologies. A common database
will be shared by all units within the corporation. It will form a strong
(contractual) linkage with the National Research Institute of Construction
Machinery, and share its engineering and laboratory resources to the maximum
extent possible. It would have a staff of 80-90 persons.
9.        The main functions of the center would include:
(a) Setting up a Technical Information Center including market statis-
tics and disseminating current information to the divisions in a
systematic and timely manner.
(b) Developing CADICAE capability including computer drawing, computer
bill of materials, with common database throughout the corporation.



- 95 -                        ANN  9
Attachment 1
Also, developing design optimization and design analysis software
for all divisions.
(i)  Setting up a material database and a metallurgical lab.
(ii) Setting up a corporate-wide management resource planning system
and implement it step by step for every division.
(iii) Setting up a computer-aided machining and processing (metal
cutting, welding, etc.) lab to improve machine productivity and
product quality, especially for the new CNC machines. This
software module will be eventually added to the HRP II software
for machine loading and scheduling.
(iv) Setting up a job ".counting/product line accounting system; it
will be added to the Management Information System to be estab-
lished in all divisions step by step.
(v)  Setting up a corporate-wide technology forecasting and market-
ing analysis function to assist divisions' marketing and sales
function.
(t) Working, on a contract basis, with TianJin's National Research
Institute of Construction Machinery (TRICH) on new equipment and
components (hydraulic transmission, torque converter, electronic
controls, etc.).
(d)  Working with Tianjin University's National Combustion Engine
Research Institute in the area of fuel economy, combustion develop-
ment and exhaust emission reduction.
(e) Providing seminar, training facilities and conference rooms suitable
for meeting with international guests and advisors.



- 96 -                        ARM  9
Attachment 1
10.       Prooosed Investment.
$ ml     U ln    $ Uln
(equiv.)
Building (1,000 in)                                       -      0.70    0.13
Laboratory Equipment
Test facility for the Technical Center                  0.70   0.60    0.11
Computer and software development laboratory
Technical Information Center, Workstation Software
Development, testing and measuring, etc.                0.87   2.30    0.42
Technology transfer and training                          0.30   0.30    0.06
Subtotal                                        1.87   3.9     0.72
contingency                                               0.28   0.60    0.11
Total                                           241    4.S     0.83
C. Auto Parts Subsector
11.       Backeround.  The auto parts subsector is supported by the following
national and regional institutions:
*    TAIC Aut motive Research Intitute.  It is the R&D center for the
TAIC OEM companies. It is being consolidated and expanded.
*    China Automobile Technolonr Research Center. It deals with plan-
ning, tecbnology development aud manufacturing facility. TALC has
used this organization for some of its production planning. The
center does not conduct any product research nor any auto parts
development. It reports to local sectoral bureaus.
*    Tian1in Combustion Enaine Research Institute.  It is a national
combustion research laboratory located at Tiiijin University. The
lab conducts diesel combustion research, not related to TAlC or its
auto parts business.
*    TAIC Automotive Research Institute.  The present TAIC Research
Institute has not been active in the development of auto parts. It
has a total staff of 350 amployees with an engineering staff of 175-
180. A major expansion is being planned with an investment of Y 45
million. The Institute serves primrily the 03K. under TAIC and is
unlikely to be of much support to the auto parts subsector.



- 97 -                        AMNE
Attachment 1
12.       Teehnical Centers.  The subsystem corporations, in particular the
two drive train and the auto electric subsystem corporations, would establish
Technical Centers to facilitate product design and process and system develop-
ment.
Drive Tral- Technical Center
13.       The technical capability of the present enterprises in the drive
train subsystem is limited to producing parts based on drawings received from
Daihatsu or from TAIC design office. R&D capability is limited to reengineer-
ing and manufacturing based on sample parts. It is supported by TAIC's "Auto-
o'bile R&D Center." aowever, there is little evidence that this "center" is
serving the auto parts subsector.
14.       The proposed Technical Center will provide advanced technology and
Information support needed for product R&D, manufacturing productivity, prod-
uct quality, cost reduction, market forecasting, cost accounting, manufactur-
ing input planning, integrated management information systems, etc. It will
be the center for technology absorption, digestion and dissemination. It will
provide multifunctional services including new product development, perfor-
mnce (including noise) testing, life-cycle testing, process optimization,
gear design software development, process improvements, in-process quality
control and diagnostics, etc. The major requirement of the drive train sub-
system is the capability of developing quality gear box and differentials with
a low sound level (86 dB), and coming close to the international standard.
15.       The main functions of the center would include:
(a)  Providing a solid link with the National Qeav Research Institute,
National Mechanical Research Institute (located in Zhenzhou) and the
Gear Research Laboratory of Chongqing and Xian Jiao-Tung Universi-
ties.
(b)  NEtablishing a technical information center on gear design, gear
processing and testing and a library on current domestic and inter-
national documents on engineering advancement and on marketing sta-
tistics.
(c) Conducting product R&D functions based on technical forecasts and
market demand.
(d) Applying CAD, structured bill of material, common engineering and
manufacturing database to all divisions of the Drive Train Corpora-
tion.
(e) Applying computer-aided parts processing and machine loading, prod-
uct costing techniques, mmaufacturing resource planning, and manage-
ment information systems uniformly and step by step to all the divi-
sions.
(f)  Setting up a small material, metallurgical lab and a precision mea-
surement, aetrology, standard lab.



- 98 -                        AMDL9
Attacbaent 1
(g) Setting up a gear box and axle test lab including endurance, sound
level and paver losses.
16.       Prooosed Investment
$ mln  Y mln    $ mln
(equiv.)
Building and location (1,000 m2)                                 0.70    0.13
Equipment
Drive train dyno (test stand)                                  0.60
Torque meter, etc.                                      0.10
Sound level and vibrator measurement                    0.02
Material testing                                        0.11
Alignment equipment                                            0.08
Subtotal                                        0.23   0.68    0.12
Computer and software
6 sets of 80386180486 and CAD software                  0.08   0.12
MRP II, MIS software, etc. and a workstation                   0.30
Subtotal                                        0.08   0.42    0.08
Technical support and trainin8 needs                      0.20   -       0.20
Total                                           0.49   1.80    0.33
Contingencies                                             0.06   0.25    0.05
Total                                           0.55   2.05    0,38
Auto-Electric Technical Center
17.       Backfround. The present subsystem engineering and R&D capability
consists mainly of making parts according to TAIC drawings or samples. Some
enterprises have re-engineering capability. TAIC's R&D Center provides very
little assistance to the auto parts enterprises.
18.       Technical Center. The overall functions of the Auto-Electric Tech-
nical Center are similar to those described under the Drive Train Technical
Center with special emphasis on the development needs of auto-electric prod-
ucts. Its focus will be on the following activities:
*    product R&D to meet market demand



- 99 -M                                9
Att&achment 1
*    absorbing and disseminating up-to-date management, marketing, engi-
neering, manufacturing technologies
*    applying NRP, MIS, cost accounting systems uniformly and step by
step in the divisions of the corporation
*    conducting performance test, life cycle test, etc.
*    developing design analysis optimization software
o    upgrading production process  for productivity and quality
19.       Proposed Investment.
$ mln  Y mln    $ mln
(equiv.)
Now building (1,000 m2)                                            0.70    0.13
Equipment                                                  1.50   1.00    0.18
Computer hardware and software (6 sets of
80386180486)                                             0.20
Technology transfer and training                           0.60
Subtotal                                         2.30   1.70    0.31
Contingencies                                              0.35   0.'5    0.05
Total                                            2.65   1.95    0.36
D. Electronic Component Subsector
20.       Backaround.  The electronic components subsector has the following
support institutions:
*    Copy Technology Research Institute (Tianjin)
*    Capacitor Research Institute (Beijing)
*    Chip-Type Component Research Institute (Guangzhou)
*    Component Production Equipment Research Institute (Chengdu)
21.       The present structure of subsector enterprise-based R&D institutions
is as follows:



_ 100 -
AttachlMen I
Existing institutes         Location      Space (o)    Staff   Capability
No. 6 Research Institute  No. 6               200       35    * Delay line sensor
* Ceramie Material
Development
Ceramic Material Ltd.     No. 15               50       10    * Ceramic Research
* Chip Material
Tech4ical Departmeat      All other                            * Product and Pro-
euterprises                           cess Developnent
22.       StrStegy for Future Develogment. The restructuring of this subsec-
tor is built around two subsector corporations, one for capacitors and t}:e
other for resistors. These corporations would be established as shareholding
joint ventures with reputed international manufacturers. It is expected that
the foreign partners would assume responsibility for providing and updating
know-how and systems products and manufacturing processes, organization sys-
tems, etc., and therefore the provision of a new Technical Center under TIDP
for the above purpose would not be necessary.
23.       Technical Center for Surface-Mounted Technologa  (SMT). The proposed
Technical Center for SMT would enable the electronics stibsector to continue
limited development work and technology assimilation in SMT components, i.e.,
chip capacitors and resistors. It would help to develop technologies that can
be used? throughout the subsector. It would also reduce duplication and mini-
mize investment through centralized chemical properties measurement and ana-
lytical and testing facilities.
24.       The monolithic capacitor production in Radio Components Pactory
No. 15 would be transferred to the Teecnical Center for SlT and also new
equipment will be added. The pilot operation would require a complete process
line with one piece of equipment for each process. The initial equipment for
the technical center to be financed under the proposed TA can be classified
into laboratories (general and special service group) and pilot operations
(chip capacitors and resistors) as detailed below:
(a)  Laboratories.  Surface-mounted assembly equipment (laboratory size),
particle size measuring equipment, surface-mounted measurement
equipment, and powder characterization equipment.
(b)  Chip Ca2acitor.  Cutter, binder burnout oven, controlleriprogrammer/
furnace (kiln), termination equipment, termination firing belt fur-
nace, plating equipment, electrical sorting and characterization
equipment (capacitance, loss tangent, insulation resistance, break-
down voltage), temperature chamber, tape on reel equipment for chip
capacitors, screen-making equipment for screen printing, and clean-
ing equipment.
(c)  Chip Resistors.  Automatic screen printer, drying furnace, sintering
furnace (kiln), laser tuner for resistance, chip breaking equipment,
laser cutter, printer for markers, termination equipment, termina-



' 101 -                       AINEI L
Attaehmant I
tion firing belt furnace, plating equipment, tape on reel equipment
for chip resistors, and electrical testing equipment.
25.       The total new lvestment In this Technical Center is estimated as
followst
$ ln  Y mln    $ mln
(equiv.)
Buildings                                                       4.00    0.73
Equipment                                                3.25   5.40    0.99
Purniture & office equipment                             -      2.50    0.46
Organization & technology management                     0.15
Data bass system for technical and market research       0.15
Training                                                 0.20
Technology acquisition                                   0.50
Total                                               4.25  11.90    2.18
Contingency                                              0.75   2.10    0.39
Total                                               5.00  14.00  2.57
E. lectric Motors Subsector
26.       Bagktround.  On an organisational basis, the Daming Research and
Development Institute (Darnig R&D) is part of the Tianjin Daming Electric
Machine Corporation (Daning). While Daning R&D derives come financial support
from Daminag, it operates largely independently of Daning. Daming R&D is
located in Tianjin in a multilevel building of about 1,600 m' in an area which
is physically remote from the Dadnig plant.
27.       Daming R&D engages prinarily in applications type research through
five primary research areas which includes
(a) Electric Motor Division, which is working in the area of onargy-
saving motors and variable-speed motors.
(b)  Computer Numeric Control Application and Research Division, which is
working in the area of numeric control technology and applications.
(c)  Industrial Drive System Division, which is working in the area of
motor control systems and servo motor development.
(d) Motor Test Division, which Is a government-eertified testing facil-
ity performing motor testing for Daming and others.



- 102 -                        AMNE9
Attachment I
(a) Computer Division, which is working on computer-based testing and
equipment control applications.
28.       Daming R&D has the capability to make mall electrical and mechani-
cal prototypes and samples. It also writes software to support ongoing worv
Dasnig R&D employs 180 persons, of which 10 are senior engineers, 20 are engi-
neers and 70 are technicians. The remaining personnel are employed In other
enterprises, which are either owned or supported by Daming R&D.
29.       The ongoing work at Daming R&D is original and creative and has
applicability to Daming's operations. Closer goal-setting, focus, and cooper-
ation between Daming and Daming R&D would be mutually .ieneficial to both orga-
nizations. Specifically, work on some of the metallurgical problems confront-
ing Daming would be most beneficial. Daming R&D should also be utilized by
electromechanical parts producers in the automotive subsector.
30.       Future Strateav.  As it is proposed to establish a shareholding
joint venture with a reputed international manufacturer of electric motors, it
is expected that the foreign partner would provide the necessary product,
manufacturing and systems know-how. A new Technical Center is therefore not
being proposed for this subsector under TIDP.
TECHNICAL CENTERS - SUMN1ARY OF INVESTMENT
($ million)
Subsector                         Foreign cost       Local cost      Total cost
Machine tools                          1.15             0.46            1.61
Construetion equipment                2.15              0.83            2.98
Auto parts
Drive train subsystem               0.55              0.38            0.93
Auto-electrical subsystem           2.65              0.36            3.01
Technical Center for SMT              5.00              2.57            7.57
Total                      1l.S0              4.60           16.10



-  03 -                      ANX9
JIN  I23pUSMR&L DESELOPM NT PROJECT
Support Institutions - Trainina
Present S$atug
1.        Tianjin is well-endowed in terms of training facilities.  The Labor
Bureau is the government agency responsible for Tianjin's training policy,
guidance and support for training of blue-collar workers. Training courses
are conducted by three bureaus: labor, personnel and economic commission.
Training is also carried out by the administrative bureau responsible for
different subsectors, e.g., Machine Building Bureau, TAIC and Electronics and
Instrumentation Bureau.
2.        Based on analysis of the training irstitutes, it has been concluded
thats
(a) There is an adequate number of training institutions in Tianjin.
(b)  There is a need for rationalization rather than setting up of new
institutions.
(c)  There are no training institutions dedicated to the auto parts and
electronics subsectors.
sd)  The existing training institutions for the three subsectors under
the Machinery Building Bureau need to be strengthened in lire with
the product and market strategies for the restructured subsectors.
(e)  Instead of setting up new institutions for the auto parts and elec-
tronics components subsectors, they should utilize the services of
the existing institutions in the bureau. TAIC and Electronics and
Instrumentation Bureaus should realign the focus of one of the
existing institutions toward the needs of restructured auto parts
and electronics components subsectors.
(f)  The investment in training facilities would be restricted to the
training institutions directly related to the three subsectors; viz.
Machine Tools, Construction Equipment and Electric Motors.
3.        In line with the above, and based on consultants' recomendations,
it has been agreed to strengthen the following training institutions by pro-
viding equipment to undertake training; teaching aids (video, slide and over-
head projectors, computer hardware and software, blackboards, flip charts,
etc.); and books and periodicals:



104 -                       a=   9
Attachment 2
*   Machine Toole - TechAScal Workers School
*    Construction Equipment - Toehnical Worker# School
*    Electric Motors - Technical Worker. School and Second Technical
School
*    Tianjin Mechanical and Electric Institute.
Details of the recommended investments in these lnstitutions are given in the
follovsng paragraphs.
4.        Machine Sools.  Tianjin Technical Worker School
*    LEtablished in July 1961
*    60 teachers
*    Current enrollmonet  496 students
* Purposet train techanical workers in lathes and machine centers
*    Present equipment includess  33 lathes and 10 other auxiliary equip-
ment
Prconsed Devalonmewt Plan.                                   . Y   S equiv.
Building (500 i!)                                   150,000    27,522
Numeral controlled teaching equipments
11 sets                                 55,600    76,800    14,091
Contingency                                 8,400    29,600     5,431
Iotal                                64.000   256.400    47.044
S.        Construction Ecuilment.  Tianjin Technical Worker School
*    Established in September 1964
-    82 teachers, I professor and 17 lecturers
*    Current enrollment:  262 students
*    Purposes  training of internediate-level technical workers
*    Degrees offered:  electrician, welding, milling, lathe
*    Present equipment:  23 lathes, 4 milling machines and 4 grinding
machines
Progosed Dovelopment Plans                          -         Y   S eau.iv.
Electrician laboratory                          -    50,000     9,170
Testing instruments                             -    20,000     3,670
Milling machine                                 -   450,000    82,570
Grinding machine                                -   210,000    .8,530
Contingency                                     -   134,000    24,590
Totgl                                      ^   864.000   158.530



- 105 -                       ANWUX 
Attacbment 2
6.        Electric Motors.
Electric Motor Technical Workers School
*    Established in July 1975
*    92 teachers, 2 professors and 16 lecturers
*    Current enrollment:  350 students
*    Purposes  training of intermediate-level technical workers for manu-
facture of electric motors
*    Present equipment includes 19 lathes
Proposed Development Plans                          S         Y   S eauiv.
Workshop building (500 ma)                      -   150,000    27,520
Lathes:  10 sets                                    260,000    47,710
Computers                                  15,000
Language laboratory                        15,440
Teachers' training (5 persons)                       44,800     8,220
Contingency                                4,560    65,200    11,960
Total                                35.000   520.000    95.410
Tianjin Second Technical School for Electric Motor Factory
*   Established in May 1979
*    56 teachers
*    Current enrollment:  200 students
3    Present equipment includes:  12 lathes, 2 milling machines, 2 drills
and 2 vertical drills
Proposed Development Plans                          S         Y   S equiv.
5 lathest model 6140, 36,000/set                    180,000    33,270
Display lathe:  I set                      17,500
Drills:  5 sets                                      50,000     9,170
Physics laboratory                                   40,000     7,340
Electrician laboratory                               40,000     7,340
Language laboratory                        17,300
Contingency                                 5,200    44,000     8,070
Total                                40.000   354.000    64.950
7.        Common Pacilities.  Tianjin Mechanical and Electrical Institute
*   Established in 1981
*    64 teachers, 8 professors, 26 lecturers
*    Current enrollment:  2,700 students
*    Degrees offered: machine making, industry automation, motor cable
and vire, computer, industry statistics, CNC equipment, economics
*    Present laboratories/equipment includes:  material laboratory, elec-
tronic laboratory, hydraulic press laboratory, material strength
laboratory, electric laboratory, computer laboratory



106 -                         lE=    9
Attachment 2
Pronosed Develogment Plans                                     Y   S euiv
Computer CPU486s  5 sets, 30,/OOOset       25,000    30,000      5,510
Drawing instruments:  2 sets, 15,000/set              30,000     5,510
Language laboratory                         10,000    14,000     2,570
Control equipment                                     28,000     5,140
CNC lathe                                             16,000     2,940
Computert  286, 5 sets                      10,000    12,000     2,200
Contingency                                10,000    24,000      4,400
Total                                 55.000   154.000    28.260
8.        In addition to the above, the following imported training equipment
will be provided for common use by the Bureaus and enterprises:
Computer facilities                              42,000
Teaching aids (including VCRs, slide             42,000
projectors, overhead projectors)
Books, periodicals and technical
literature                                     6,000
Contingency                                      16,000
Total                                     106.000
TRAINING CENTERS - SUMMARY OF INVESTHENT
($'000)
Subsector                          Foreign cost       Local cost      Total cost
Machine Tools                            64                47              111
Construction Equipment                    -               158              158
Electric Motors
TecEnical Workers School               35                95              130
Second Technical School                40                65              105
Common Facilities
Tianjin Mechanical and Electrical
Institute                            55                29               84
Training Aids                         106                 -              106
Total                              300               394              694



- 107 -                          ANNX10
CHIE
TIAIJIN INDUSTRIA  DEVELOM NT PROJECT
Terms of Reforence of Studies/ProiectI_mvlementation Work of Consultants
A. In_roduction
1.        The Tianjin Municipal Govermoent (?MG) has used the services of
international consulting firms to prepare subsector specific restructuring
programs for the following five industrial subsectors.
(a) Machine Tools Subsector
(b) Construction Equipment Subsector
(c) Auto Parts Subsector
(d) Electronics Components Subsector
(e) Electric Motors Subsector
2.        The consultants, working together with concerned municipal bureaus,
corporations and enterprises in the respective subsectors, have submitted
their recommendations.  The proposed subsector strategies are aimed at improv-
ing the overalU operational efficiency and effectiveness of the subsectors to
increase both domestic and international competitiveness and develop direct/
indirect exports. These strategic changes need to be carried out across the
subsector corporations and factories and support institutions and encompass
organizational development and structure, product/market strategies including
development of marketing and distribution channels, appropriate management
planning, control and information systems, operational effectiveness programs
in the manufacturing and technology functions, strategic planning, etc., sup-
ported by appropriate policy and institutional reforms. The consultants'
recommendations have been accepted in broad outline by concerned government
authorities in China and the program is now ready for implementation. The
authorities recognize that the management of this implementation project is an
extremely complex task requiring coordination and control of several activi-
ties and the active participation and cooperation of numerous individuals
within many government departments and the concerned corporationsIfactories.
TMG propose to implement this complex restructuring project with the assis-
tance of international consultants. As electronic components and electric
motors subsectors would have joint-venture partners who will bring their own
know-how for individual enterprises, consultants' role will be limited in
these two subsectors.
B. Objectives
3.        The objective of the proposed consultancy services is to assist the
various authorities involved in the implementation of the restructuring pro-
grms through systematic design end successful implementation of the entire



- 108 -                         AUEX 10
process so as to ensure timely completion of the project activities with mini-
mal disruption of current operations. The ultimato objective to the success
of the business enterprises in these subsectors in achievitg the goal and
objectives of the industrial restructuring. As organization structures and
systems are closely related and interdependent, they should be compatible and
mutually reinforcing. To avoid any organizational dysfunctioning, these two
tasks are, therefore, being integrated and form a part of this consulting
assignment.
4.        The primary responsibility for the implemeutation of the subsector
restructuring projects will be that of the TMG, including Tianjin Planning
Commission (TPC), Tianjin Economic Comission (TEC), and respective industrial
bureaus, assisted by an interagency Tianjin World Bank Loan Office (TWBLO),
which will monitor the tasks relating to the subsector restructuring programs,
prepare details of policy measures for approval by the authorities and monitor
the technical assistance component of the project. The role of the consul-
tants in these matters is to support the concerned officials through TWBLO in
the detailed design of project implementation tasks, define the human and
financial resources that are necessary, assist in the development of work
plans and activity schedules, implementation of these detailed plans and
finally, in effective project monitoring and control systems. An important
objective is to transfer this expertise in project design and implementation
to the management of the subsector corporations/factories to enable them to
independently continue such functions in the future. Additionally, the design
of factory organization structures and management systems requires extensive
work and foreign consultants should utilize to the maximum extent possible,
consistent with the availability of suitable local consulting skills, the
services of Chinese consulting firms. It may also be desirable to use Chinese
consultants where possible to facilitate communication and effect economies in
consulting expenses.
C. Scope of Services
Assistance in Pro1ect Manatement Desitn and Imnlementatlon
5.        The restructuring proposals focus on a number of managerial and
"software" issues (subsector organization, management systems, operational
effectiveness, production technology, product development and technology
transfer, etc.) as well as hardware aspects. Plans for implementation of all
these multiple interdependent activities will need to be established, detailed
tasks identified and scheduled as a part of the Master Project Design.
Detailed near-term implementation plans (1-12 months) will need to be drawn up
to incorporate some of the implementation steps which can be initiated immedi-
ately to ensure the success of the entire subsector restructuring program and
those which have long lead times but involve relatively low levels of funding
and, therefore, can also be initiated promptly. Next, long-term comprehensive
Implementation plans will have to be established. The consultants will assist
in the project implementation and monitoring process as frequently as is con-
sidered necessary for timely and successful completion of project activities.
6.        Beside advice and active assistance in project management, there are
critical tasks forming an essential part of the restructuring program which
constitute the core of this consulting assignment. The consultants will fur-



- 109                            NAM   10
thor be expected to supplemnt the t-sks with any other activities that may
be crucial to the success and effectiveness of these restructuring programs.
These critical desgn and Implementation tasks relate to: (i) organization
structure and developmnmt; (11) marketing and sales distribution; (iii) opera-
tional effectivenes  program    (iv) production technology upgrading; (v) man-
agement planning control and informtion systems; (vi) product development and
technology trsnsfert and (vil) consolidation of production. The scope of work
under each of these h8e  ts briefly described in the following paragraphs.
(a) Or&nixza,toal Structure and Ortanixation Development
7.        The consultants will need to assist the subsectors in developing
detailed organization structures at the corporate, divisional and factory
levels . This work vill Include defining roles and responsibilities, job spec-
ifications, optimum manniag, and en assessment of current management personnel
to fulfill the new roles.
8.        It is apparent that the Implementation of the recommended organiza-
tion structure cannot bc done without extensive training at all levels of
management and operations staff. This aspect of organization development is
crucial to the success of the project. The consultants will identify the gaps
in managerial and supervisory skils,, prioritize the training needs and assist
in conducting short training seminars (up to one week) particularly for senior
management. They will also advis, on the type, venue and cost of in-depth
training progras of longer duration which would be necessary for development
of the requisite smagerial skills at different levels. The actual conduct of
the long duration training courses is, however, outside the scope of this
assignment.
(b) MarketUng and Sales Distrlbution
9.        The strengthening of the marketing organization and distribution
arrangements has been Identified as a priority task. Consultants will assist
in developing the organization structure and in establishing marketing poli-
cies which are in consonance with the recommended product/market strategies.
They will also assist in locating and establishing adequate distribution chan-
nels, and sales and services networks for the domestic and target interna-
tional markets, including likely joint venture partners to facilitate exports.
(c) Onerational Iffectiv_nees Protrams
10.       Several short-term projects for improving operational effectiveness
and aimed at improving productivity, reducing costs, enhancing quality,
increasitg capacity utilization, etc., have been recommended. Consultants
will design and then a"ssit In implementation of such operational effective-
ness measures in the subsector factories. This will include the design and
implementation of operational system upgrades including production planning
and control, lventory managementp preventive maintenance, quality assurance,
etc. Consultauts will also review current plans for capacity expansion
through acquisition of fixed assets in light of likely improvements which may
be realized through these operational effectiveness measures.



- 110 -                          ANNIX 10
(d) Uporadina Production Technology/Manufacturing Processes
II.        Consultants will assist in identifying gaps in production processes
as currently practiced and recommend/implement suitable improvements consis-
tent with realization of optimum manufacturing costs as related to the volume
of production.
(e) Product Develo2,ment and Technoloay Management
12.       Consultants vill assist in identifying acquisition of technical
expertise from appropriate sources for improving products. This also includes
assistance in implementation of measures aimed at improving technology absorp-
tion, in-house product development, efficient utilization of institutional
infrastructure for R&D, and in ensuring that enterprises initiate steps for
redesign of key products and acquisition of new technology.
(f)  Development and Design of Strateaic Planning. Manaxement and Control
Systems
13.       Based on the organization structures which are to be implemented,
consultants will develop and design management information systems for all key
mansgement functions including corporate, divisional and factory level opera-
tions control, financial accounting, planning and control, cost accounting,
materials management (corporate and divisional level), business planning,
uarket and sales system, manpower planning, performance evaluation and incen-
tive systems, etc. Some of the other subsystems such as production planning
and control, preventive maintenance, quality assurance, stock control, etc. as
already referred to in para. 10 as a part of operational effectiveness mea-
sures are also to be included. The consultants will determine the adequacy
and readiness of the factories to implement these systems manually or with the
help of computers. This will also depend on the availability of the required
hardware and software in China. However, the design of the systems should be
such as to facilitate electronic data processing and integration at a later
date.
14.       The product/market strategies recommended for the respective subsec-
tors are based on the macroeconomic environment in China as foreseen today.
It is necessary to institutionalize within enterprises the capability to
respond to macroeconomic and business environment changes which will inevita-
bly take place in China and the overseas markets even during the implementa-
tion of the present project. Consultants will assist in establishing the
organization needed for long term business and strategic planning in each
subsector to build full-fledged strategic planning capability. The organiza-
tion of a practical strategic planning unit at the corporate and divisional
level should be implemented in the near term.
(g) Consolidation of Production
15.       Consultants will assist the respective corporations in the drawing
up and implementation of plans for rationalization of products and consolida-
tion of production facilities so as to optimize utilization of resources
through elimination, wherever feasible, of the manufacture of overlapping
products or components at more than one production facility. Such rational-



- 11l -                             X    10
ization proposals would involve relocation of physical assets and manpower
from a less efficient to a tore efficient site.
16.       Proposals for investments in projects for expansion/diversification
will be considered only after the impact of implementation of the above con-
solidation measures have been taken into account.
D. Schedule of the Study and Renortin2
17.       The proposed assignment will be carried out by a consultant team
consisting of experts in organization and systems design, management informa-
tion system, accounting and financial management, marketing, market training,
and technological aspects of the five subsectors. The assignment will be
phased over a period of three years from the date of contract award.
18.       The consultant(s) shall submit the following documents and reports,
to be written in English:
(a) An Inception Report within two weeks from the date of contract award
summarizing the detailed work program, arrangemints needed for the
field work of the study, major issues to be investigated in-depth,
and more importantly, a detailed list of information (where neces-
sary, data formats will be provided) to be prepared by Tianjin gov-
ernment and enterprises in the five subsectors before the start of
field work.
(b) Appropriate periodic progress reports on a monthly, quarterly or
six-monthly basis clearly defining the progress made under various
activities and including design details of the organization struc-
tures/management systems/operational effectiveness measures proposed
and implemented.
(c) Interim report at the end of the first and second year of assignment
outlining the progress made so far at subsector, enterprise and
factory level in carrying out the assignment and the specific
details of the work to be performed in the remaining period.
(d)  Draft Final Report, detailing the work performed in accordance with
the Terms of Reference, including detailed findings and recommenda-
tions, actions initiated to carry out the recommendations, and fur-
ther actions to be taken along with a timetable.
(e) Final Report within one month after receiving the comments on the
Draft Final Report from Tianjin Government and the World Bank; and
(f) Implementation Manuals (as part of the Final Report) for facilitat-
ing the introduction and implementation of the recommendations and
new systems, which should includet (i) organization manual for
enterprises; (ii) manual for marketing and sales promotion; (iii)
manual for installation and maintenance of HIS for enterprises;
(iv) cost accounting manuals for enterprises, including applications
to cost control; and (v) other manuals to help improve operational
efficiency, e.g., staff training, inventory management, preventive
maintennUce, etc.



- 112 -                                             I I
TINJIrN IUDUMUTIAL bRVK9kU ZO=J
Proiect ImlRMntstinm Sceludule
1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
,Physical !e.*,ucturina of Interstices____
Establisbmeat of corporations                       I
Appointmeut of consultants                       X
Preparatlon of restructurlg plans for
enterpriaes/plants
Approval of subloans by PPs_
Procurement                                                                     -      -
Production start-up
gMaaemeLt. -Organization and Systems
Systems organizational plans of corporatio,
divisions and plants
Implementatioa of marketing strategies
Development and impl.mntation of MSg
Training of enterprise management and staff
Dovelovment of $tchnololical Infrastructure
Procurement of equipment                        |        =
Training
Strenathenina of P"s
Staff training                                     -



- 113 -                            mmiII I&
Caft
TIANJIN IDUSTRIL DEVELOPENT] PROJECT
KeU Monitorina Indicatgr.
Indicatore                                                      Target Dates
A. bWer&Ii
Loan effectiveness                                             July 1993
S. Enteririse Reforms
Establishment of corporations                                  July 1993
Closure of nonviable plants                                December 1994
C. Policy Reforms
Removal of all price controls                              December 1995
Removal of all surplus labor                               December 1995
D. Utilization of Industrial Credit Component by PMIs
Last date for subproject submission                            June 1996
Last date for loan withdrawal                              December 1999
E. Impl1Mentation of Tehnical Aesistance Comoonent
Development of Inastitutional Infrastructure
Selection of suppliers                                    March 1994
Completion of civil vorks                                  June 1994
Start of use of new equipment                           January 1995
Commencement of staff training                          January 1994
Completion of staff training                           December 1995
P. M a' Staff Training
Commencement                                                January 1993
Completion                                                 December 1995



- 114 -AN                                          13
'IAN  IUlDUSTRIAL D--LOPflKNT PROJECT
Pro1ect Umolementation Task and SunerviLSIo PlA
1993        1994         1995         1996
1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4
1. Imple=entation Task (AJencv)
A. Subsector Reform Stratni_es
Establish Corporations (tlG)          __          ----
Close Noaviable Plants tTMG)                          ------
Removal of Price Controls (2MG)
Redeploy Redundant Labor (TMG-) ______                         ------------
Reviwe Progress on Reforms (WB)          x    x            x      x    x
B. Credit Comnonent
selection of Consultants (I -)-----------
Preparing Restructuring Plans (Cons)    __        ------------
Complete Subproject Appraisals
Approve Subloans (WB)                          -- ------------ _-_________ ------
C. Tecbnical Assistance Comnonent
1. Workers Retralnina & Redeuloyment
Select Consultants                             ______
Submit Consultants Report                             ----- -------
2. Pro lect ImLlementation Surnort
Organization Restructuring        _            ------------
Production Consolidation          __ __                     ------------
NlS/Accounting Systems_ ------------ ------------                         ._ ___ >
Industrial Engintering            _--_-__-___ ______-___  ------------ ________  >
3. Establish Research Institutions &
Techic_al Centers (1TMG &
EnterDrIseJ)
Procure Facilities & Equipment               ------------ ------------
Staff Training                                    ------- ------------ ---
4. Train EnterDris. Manatement and
Staff (11(0)
Prepare Annual Training Plan                 x            x            x
Select  Consultants                          ------------  ------------  -----------
Coamence  Seminars                                -------  ------------  -----------
Commence Overseas Trainitg                        ------- ------------ ___________>
5. Train PFI Staff (Pyle)
Select Consultants                ----               ----
Commence First Course                 ----
Comuence Second Course                                    -----
Conmence Overseas Training                         ______             ----------- >



- 115 -                                    AN1EL11
1993         1994         1995         1996
12  3  4   1 2  3  4   1 2  3  4   1  2  3  4
I. Prolect Sunervision Missions
1. EGIP Implant eubsectoral
strategies, review enterprise
reform strategies                          x
2. Fous on Implementation
organization and subsectoral
strate8r
3. Review progre4s on enterprise
restructuring, tech. assistance
& training 
4. ocus on empeditlag subproject
review and procurement                                         x
5. Focus on effectiveness of
project Implementation arrange-
ments                                                                   x
6. In-depth overall Implementation
reviw                                                                       x



- 116 -                          A
CRIN
TIANJIN INDUSTRA  DEVELO_PMET RCT
China Investment Bank ICIB)
1         CIB, through its Tianjin Branch, will be responsible for the
appraisal and supervision of subprojects to be financed under the proposed
Bank loan. Although staff from the Read Office will be involved in the
appraisal process, the Tianjin Branch will prepare the appraisal reports
required for each subproject and forward them directly to the World Bank for
review.  CIB has already gained substantial experience in project appraisal
and is the only financial institution in the industrial sector in China whose
investment finance decisions are based on generally accepted project appraisal
techniques and procedures. It has received, so far, five credit lines from
the Bank Group: CIB I (Loan/Credit 2226/1313-CIA) for $70.6 million approved
on December 21, 1982; CIB II (Loan/Credit 2434/1491-CHA) for $175.0 million
approved on June 5, 1984; CIB III (Loan/Credit 2659/1663-CHA) for $100.0 mil-
lion approved on March 3, 1986; CIB IV (Loan/Credit 2783/1763-CHA) for
$300.0 million approved on Match 3, 1987; and CIS V (Loan 3075-CHA) for $300.0
million approved on May 30, 1989. CIB is also the finanetal intermediary for
TrLIP and one of the Fls for the SPARK. project and the Shanghai Industrial
Development Project. The Bank has alsc provided considerable support to CIB's
institutional development. It has developed sufficient capability to satis-
factorily appraise and supervise subprojects that will be financed under TIDP
and to take objective investment financing decisions. The institutional,
operational, and financial aspects of CIB are described below.
2.        The Institution.  CIB commenced its operations in 1983 as a govern-
ment-owned development finance institution. As of December 31, 1991, it had
paid-in capital of Y 1,845 million ($344 million equivalent). CIB is adminis-
tratively under the supervisory responsibility of MOP. It t1so retains strong
links with PCBC, from which most of its staff, both at central and provincial
levels, has been drawn. Its oraanization consists of (a) a head office in
Beijing which performs an administrative and supervisory role for its entire
operation; and (b) provincial branch offices, which have the direct responsi-
bility for screening, appraisal and supervision of projects. The branch
offices have expanded from three in 1982 to 31 provincial-level branches and
28 subbranches at the municipal level. CIB has delegated limited loan
approval authority to selected branches; decisions on larger loans are taken
at the bead office.
3.        CIB's 33-member Board of Directors has remained structurally the
same since 1983; it is chaired by the President of PCBC and includes represen-
tatives of the Government departments and banks concerned. The Board meets
once a year and has delegated most of its operational decision--making author-
ity to a Managing Committee consisting of the Board Chairman, the three Deputy
Chairmen (all from PBC) and eight Managing Directors (of vhich four comprise
CIB 's senior management, and one representative each from SPC, MOF, PBC and
the State Administration of Exchange control).



- 117 -                          AME  14
4.        Cul's management at the bead office consists of a President and
three Vice-Presidents who have the responsibility of supervising specific
departments. Each branch office is also headed by a President. The total
number of staff at the head office has incressed from 33 in 1984 to 173 as of
April 30, 1992. The staff includes 32 engineers and 83 economists/financial
analysts, who are directly involved in project appraisal and supervision work.
The staff at the branches has also increased from 84 to 1,640 during the same
period. CIB plans to recruit more staff before the end of 1992 to strengthen
its project supervision capability to cope with the growing loan portfolio.
However, many managers and professional staff still lack advanced financial
skills and experience, and there is thus a continued need for training, which
is reflected in the three-year rolling training plan of CID.
5.        CIB's major operational and financial yolicies are outlined in its
Policy Statement, which was last amended in April 1989. It permits CIB to
provide local and foreign currency investment as well as working capital
loans, to develop consulting services and to undertake other financial opera-
tions (i.e., equity investments, lease financing, guarantees, loan syndica-
tions, etc.). CIB's total foreign currency lending to any one project would
not normally exceed $20 million and total local currency lending would not
exceed Y 40 million ($8.5 million equivalent); any exception to this rule
would depend upon agreement between CIS and the Bank.
6.        Until now, CIB has mainly provided foreign currency loans for capi-
tal investment in light industry projects. It has relied largely on the Bank
Group for foreign currency funds and on the Government for local currency
funds. To ensure its long-term viability in a more competitive environment,
CIB had adopted in April 1989 a revised Development Strategy Statement which
articulates CIB's plan to: (a) diversify its portfolio by industrial subsec-
tor and type of client by seeking out an increasing share of nonstate enter-
prises: (b) diversify its sources of funding particularly by enhanced commer-
cial borrowings abroad but also by increased domestic resource mobilization;
and (c) expand and develop new product lines and services such as free-
standing working capital loans, leasing operations, equity investments and
loan syndications. The progress in this regsrd has, however, been limited.
7.        CIB8s project annraisal is undertaken in accordance with its Indus-
trial Projects Appraisal Manual, which was prepared with Bank Group assis-
tance. The need to improve the manual, especially in the areas of financial
and economic rate-of-return analysis, has been recognized for some time. CIB
has prepared a substantially enlarged revised version in Chinese, which was
reviewed by an ApriL 1992 Bank supervision mission and found to be satisfac-
tory. Since 1991, greater emphasis has been placed on strengthening project
supervision of projects, In particular for projects facing operational and
financial problems. CIB is currently revising its Project Supervision Manual,
and the new version is expected to be completed before the end of 1992. The
Bank is also encouraging CIB to get involved at an earlier stage of subproject
preparation so that potential problems can be identified and avoided.
8.        Since its establishment in 1982, CIB has made considerable progress
in its institutional development. It has adopted effective lending proce-
dures, recruited a large number of well-educated junior- and middle-level
staff, carried out extensive training in China and abroad, started to diver-
sify its funding resources, sad developed an important branch network compris-



- 118 -                          AMEX 14
iog key provinces and municipalities. CIB has implemented various institu-
tional strengthening measures agreed under CIB IV and V and has established a
separate unit for economic research and reporting and appointed a full-time
internal auditor. Nevertheless, much remains to be done. CIB's current orga-
nizational structure results in fragmentation of responsibility in the manage-
ment of financial resources and financial reporting. This dilutes financial
accountability, hinders the capability of the Head Office to monitor the per-
formance of the branches and limits access of individual departments to finan-
cial data generated by other departments. It is expected that with the recent
introduction of a new financial management information system, CIB's internal
financial management and reporting will improve considerably.
9.        Operations.  A summary of CIB's actual and projected lending opera-
tions is given in Attachment 1. The size of CLB's lending increased signifi-
cantly since its establishment until 1983. Its foreign currency loan approv-
als in 1988 were $402.0 million, an eightfold increase from $49.8 million in
1983. Local currency approvals increased from Y 165.2 million in 1983 to
Y 495.5 million in 1988. The sharp increase was made possible by the contin-
ued financial support from the Bank Group and the availability of funds from
other sources including ADB, KfW, and foreign commercial banks.
10.       Since the beginning of 1989 when the Government initiated the eco-
nomic austerity program, CIB's lending operations have shown a sharp decrease.
During 1989, foreign currency term-loan approvals were $154.7 million, only
38 percent of the level of the previous year. Local currency term-loan
approvals were also very low at Y 46.0 million. Term-loan approvals in 1990
increased to $183 million in foreign exchange and Y 513 million in local cur-
rency. CIB's working capital loans increased significantly during 1989/90
because of general liquidity constraints faced by industrial enterprises. It
also reflected a change in CIB's business strategy and plan, as agreed with
the Bank under CIB V. At the end of 1990, the total working capital loan
approvals reached Y 1.9 billion, consisting of $130 million in foreign cur-
rency, and Y 1.3 billion in local currency. CIB's foreign currency term-loan
approvals totaled only $130 million in 1991, reflecting the tight resource
situation facing ClB, due mainly to difficulties in mobilizing additional
foreign-exchange resources. However, local currency loan approvals increased
to Y 824 million during the same period.
11.       CIB's financial forecast for 1992-95 is supply-driven due to
resource constraints since 1989. CIB's forecast ervisages an increase in
foreign currency loan approvals from $311 million in 1992 to $505 million in
1995, and in local currency loans from Y 1,590 million to Y 2,536 million.
12.       Financial Performance.  The actual and projected income statements
and balance sheets of CIB for 1983-94 are provided in Attachments 2 and 3,
respectively. CIB's net pr_,t (after business and income taxes) was Y 89.0
million (6.2 percent of equity) in 1987 but declined to Y 46.5 million
(2.6 percent of equity) in 1990 and Y 45.4 million (2.6 percent of equity) in
1991 due to the expiry of the tax holiday in 1988 and higher bad debt provi-
sions in 1990 and 1991. CIB's administrative expenses in 1991 continued to be
lower in relation to assets, representing 0.08 percent of its average total
assets (down from <0.2 percent in 1990). CIB's average interest spread on all
foreign and local currency loans decreased gradually from 4.1 percent in 1985
to 1.4 percent in 1991, mainly because of the higher share of foreign currency



- 119 -                          ANNEX 1A
loans in CIB's total resources, which have relatively low spread. However,
the overall average spread is still satisfactory. CIB's long-term debt to
equity ratio was 3.3:1 at the end of 1991, well within the 5:1 limit provided
under CIB V. CIB's debt service coverage ratio in 1989 was 2 times, and would
remain around 2 times between 1992-94.
13.       In 1991, loans in arrears (i.e., overdue over 90 days) amounted to
3.2 percent of total outstanding portfolio, an increase of 28 percent over
1990 when arrears were 2.5 percent of total loan portfolio. This increase is
not only due to increasing arrears (up 20.7 percent), but also to a decline in
outstanding portfolio (down 7.3 percent). On the other hand, the increase in
arrears also reflects a conservative loan rescheduling policy based on the
principle that no individual loan can be rescheduled more than once, and
establishing strict rescheduling criteria. Although the amount rescheduled in
1990 and 1991 was almost the same (about Y 300 million), the number of loans
rescheduled declined sharply from 34 in 1990 to 20 in 1991. No reschedulings
were approved up to June 30, 1992, although a number of requests were pending.
CIB's overall collection rate for 1991 was low at 75 percent, (collection data
are not available for 1990). There was no significant difference in collec-
tion rates between arrears and current repayments, indicative of the existence
of a "hard-core" one fourth of the portfolio of difficult collectibility, and
CIB will need to make significant efforts to improve its performance in this
area. During negotiations, understandings were reached with CIS that before
submission of its first subproject to the Bank, CIB will: (a) revise its
policy statement to include a loan recovery target of 90 percent of loan
repayments due; and (b) submit a plan satisfactory to the Bank for reaching
the above target, including projected loan recovery percentages for 1993-95.
14.       In China, levels of provisions for bad and doubtful loans are estab-
lished by MOP for all banks and are not based on asset classification. How-
ever, the government and CIB agreed to make an exception under CIB V and,
accordingly, CIB increased its provision for bad debt from 0.2 percent in 1988
to 1.9 percent at the end of 1991, and would further increase it to 2.0 per-
cent by December 31, 1992.
15.       According to CIB's financial forecast, its financial performance is
expected to remain satisfactory under 1992-95. Net income after taxes would
decline somewhat in 1992 to Y 40.2 million after allowing for provisions for
bad debt of Y 280.1 million, the smount required to raise total provisions to
2 percent of loan portfolio. Subsequently, however, net income would rise to
Y 212.8 million in 1993, and to Y 268.5 million in 1994. The average interest
spread on CIB loans would remain at between 1.5 and 2.0 percent, and the low
spread, coupled with CIB's low leverage, would result in an average return on
equity of about 3 percent in 1992. However, CIB expects to rapidly expand
borrowed funds during the period, and its long-term debt to equity ratio is
expected to increase from 3.3:1 at the end of 1991 to about 4.4:1 at year-end
1995. Consequently, the return on equity would double to 6 percent in 1995.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with CIB that its maximum
debt/equity ratio will remain at 5:1. The State Audit Administration performs
an external audit of CIB's accounts and it has been satisfactory.
16.       An overall review of CIB indicates that, despite significant prog-
ress in institution-building and an increase in level of operations, it has
many weaknesses. Its management and staff need further strengthening; the



- 120 -                          AM    14
appraisal quality has to be maintained more uniformly; loan collections have
to be improveds resources have to be diversified; and last but not least
important, its long-torm role has to be defined clearly. At the eame time, it
has to minimize and ultimately cease its dependence on the government and PCBC
for institutional and funding support. The above measures vill help CID to
better prepare for the emerging competition in the financial sector and, more
importantly, to find its rightful place in the financial sector in China. In
the context of supervision of CIB I-V, and new operations, including the pro-
posed assistance for the development of financial institutions in China, the
Bank is engaged in an active dialogue with the government and CIB on the lat-
ter's future role, operational strategy and resources.  The government and CIB
management are also keenly interested in CIB's further institutional
strengthening and its finding a market niche in China.
17.       Utilization of Bank Loans/IDA Credits.  CIB 1-111 have been com-
pleted satisfactorily and a Project Completion Report has been issued. Both
CIB IV and V are presently under disbursement, and, as of December 31, 1991,
their status was as follows: (a) CIS IV--207 subprojects approved for a total
amount of $301.5 million, the credit line Was 98 percent committed and
77 percent disbursed, and 176 subprojects were operational; (b) CIB V--176
subprojects approved for a total amount of $231.3 million, the credit compo-
nent was 77 percent committed and 23 percent disbursed, and 50 subprojects
were operational. CIB IV was originally expected to be complete by June 30,
1992, but the closing date has been extended by one year due to slower-than-
expected disbursements resulting from the effects of the 1988 austerity pro-
gram.
18.       CIB Tianiin Branh.  The CIB Tianjin branch was one of the first to
be established and is among the most developed branches of CIB. It is headed
by a full-time President, assisted by two Vice-Presidents, and has a total
staff of 75, of which 80 percent are professionals. One-third of the staff
(25) is directly involved in project appraisal and supervision, including 21
economistslfinancial analysts and 3 engineers. Almost all the staff has
received training after joining CIB. Most of them have attended short train-
ing programs organized by the head office. Seven staff have participated in
EDI training programs in China and another eleven have received training in
foreign countries. A sum of $50,000 was included in the technical assistance
component of TLIP for further training. Eight staff have received training so
far under this component, in Singapore and the Philippines. The branch staff
has also gained valuable knowledge and experience by participation in the
implementation of TLIP and preparation of TIDP.
19.       As of December 31, 1991, the Tianjin branch had approved 71 subproj-
ects under CIB I-IV for a total loan amount of $72.0 million in foreign cur-
rency and Y 154.0 million in local currency. Among the 71 subprojects
approved, 29 are completed (loan repaid), 38 are operating and are repaying
satisfactorily, and 4 are under construction. Under the TLIP, 15 subprojects
have been approved for $141.2 million in foreign currency and Y 280 million in
local currency, of which 5 have been completed and are repaying satisfactorily
and 10 are under construction. Overall, the operational and financial perfor-
mance of completed subprojects has been satisfactory.



- 121 -                                AIN         14
Attgchment 1
OUA
T    JI,II IIIDUSTRIAL DVELOPMET PROJECT
ChIn Investment Bank
Annl   terat ions Performance
CY million)
Actual                           Projected
1991        1992       1993        1994       1995       1996
AI2YElI
Local currency                        627      1,646      1,707       1,729      1,876      2,050
FolreSf currency                      577      1,699      1,800       2,321      2,760      3,232
(US dollar)                          (108)      (311)      (329)       (424)      (505)      (591)
Total                            3104       3.345      3.S07       4.050      4.635      5.282
COmaltment
oal currency                          671      1,609      1,684       1,764      1,917      1,848
loreln currency                      868      1,848      1,811       2,162      2,832      3,319
(US dollar)                          (162)      (338)      (331)       (395)      (518)      (607)
To_tal                         M1.S         3.457      3.496       3.926      4.748      5.167
Zlsburement
ocal currency                        690      1,546      1,607       1,729      1,875      2,050
Worelgn currney                     1,079      2,000      1,807       2,321      2,760      3,232
(US dollar)                          (201)      (366)      (330)       (424)      (505)      (591)
DU&al                            1.770      3.546      3.414       4.050      4.635      5.282
Loan lenaent.
Local urrency                         101         80        100         120        144        173
Joreiga  currency                     641        586        857       1,125      1,445      1,781
(US dollar)                          (119)      (107)      (157)       (206)      (264)      (326)
Total                              742        666        957       1.245      1.589      1.954
Loan OUtetandiJt
Loal currency                       5,353      6,403      7,841      11,584     13,642     17,693
lorel4a currency                    5,950      7,274      9,321      10,547     12,332     14,074
(US dollar)                        (1,110)    (1,330)    (1,704)    (1,924)    (2,254)    (2,994)
11.303     13.677     17.162     22.131      25.974     31.767



- 122 -                                 AMUhX 14
Attachren 2
TIhJIN INDUSTRIAL DEVULOPHENT PROJECT
China IMestmen_t Bank
Income Statement
(Y million)
Actual                            Prolected
1991        1992        1993        1994       1995        1996
Income
Interest Income frm Loans
Local currency                      249.56     672.50      945.39   1,165.81   1,379.18   1,606.68
Poreign currency                    444.94     656.77   1,001.41   1,219.70   1,466.95   1,739.05
Jtrest Income on Deposit
tcal cu-rrency                       79.98     129.42      148.76      175.54     204.99      237.39
Foreign currency                     80.35      88.76      109.05      129.16     149.28      169.42
Income on aouitv Investments
Local currency                        0.29       0.37        2.17        2.53       2.96        3.48
Foreign currency                      0.00       2.26        7.18       12.11      19.49       30.57
9thez !Mome
Local currency                       17.36       19.09      21.00       23.10      25.42       27.96
Foreign currency                      9.64      10.82       11.90       13.09      14.40       15.84
Total income                    882.12   1.579.99   2.246.88   2.741.04   3.262.67   3.830.39
Ireenses
Pfaanial exaenses
-Loc    currency interest           220.85     526.94      771.44      922.12   1,075.47   1,231.77
Foreign currency interest           476.03     624.82      796.58      975.52   1,116.01   1,325.73
Foreign curreney fees                22.09      28.76       37.39       48.60      63.19       82.14
Subtotal                         718.96    1180.52    1605.41    1946.25    2254.66    2639.65
AdministratIve and other
expenses                            12.11      15.34       19.44       24.60      31.32       39.83
Provisions for doubtful
accounts                               5.59     280.13       94.19      104.66     104.49      123.88
Depreciation and amortization           4.59       5.93        7.75       10.08       13.10      17.03
Total  xDenses                   741.24   1.481.96   1.726.79   2.085.58   24403.57   2.820.39
Profit before taxes                   140.88      98.03      520.07      655.46     859.10   1,010.00
(less) Busiu ess Tax                   24.36       8.82       46.83      58.97       77.30       90.88
Net profit before Income tax          116.52      89.21      473.24      596.49     781.80      919.12
(lese) Income tax                      71.08      49.07      260.44     327.96      429.89      505.40
Net income after tax                   45.45      40.15      212.80      268.53     351.91      413.72



- 123 -                               Attrscent 3
CIA
IMANJIN INDUSlRIAL DEVELW PNENT }ROJECT
China Investment Bank
Balance Sheet
(Y million)
1991       1992       1993        1994       1995        1996
Assets
Cash and bank deposit              2,310       2,436      3,127       4,416      4,723       4,288
Accounts receivable                1,055       1,002      1,543       1,466      1,486       1,605
Working capital loans              3,128       3,714      4,912       8,256     10,307      12,986
Others                                 3           4          4           4          5           6
Total current assets            6.495       7.156      9.586      13,142     16.521      18.885
Long-term assets
Loan.s  Local currency           2,334       3,079      3,413       3,916      4,028       5,524
Poreign currency         5,950      7,274       9,321     10,547      12,332     14,094
(less) Provisions for doubtful
debts                   (109)      (390)       (484)      (588)       (693)      (817)
Net long-tern loan portfolio    8,175        9,963     12,250      13,875     13,667      18,801
Equity lvestments                  27          92        149         233        359         547
Revolving funds                      9           9          9           5          5           5
Net fixed assets                    28          67         89         116        151         196
Other assets                         6           6          6           3          3           3
Total lonr-term "ssets          8.245      10.137     12.503      14.232     16.185      19.552
Total assets                   14.740      17.293     22.089     27.374      32.706     38.43J
Liabilltles and Euitv
Current liablities
Accounts payable                   665         605        566       1,051      1,0S59      1,593
Total deposits                   4,862       5,978      7,617       9,313     11,001      12,489
Current portion of long-term
liabilities                      726        693       1,201       1,644      1,920      2,051
Total current liabilities       6.253       7.276      9.384      12.008     13.980      16.133
Lont-term debts
Domestic borrowings                668         890      1,090       1,290      1,490       1,690
World Bank                       3,485       4,293      5,035       6,110      7,010       8,196
ADB                                338         448        958         941      1,730       1,913
Bonds                                0           0        400       1,244      2,248       3,521
Bank loans                       2,148      2,165       2,313       2,277      2,066       2,034
Foreign government loans             3          81        184         340        549         811
Total lons-term debt            6.642        .797      9.980      12.202     15.093      18.165
Total liabilities              12.895      15.073     19.364      24.210     29.073     34.29t
Paid-in capital                  1,426       1,763      1,891       2,019      2,069      2,119
Retained earnings                  420         457        833       1,144      1,564       2,020
Total equity                     1,845       2,220      2,725       3,164      3,633      4,139
Total llabilities and eaulty  14.740       17.293     22.089     27.374      32.706     38.437
Managed funds                        6,515      16,614     21,299      25,961     31,029      36,322
Long-term debtsequity ratio            3.6         4.5        4.5         3.9        4.2         4.4



- 124 -                            ANNEX 1S
TIANJIN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Industrial snd Commercial Bank of China (ICBC)
1.        Bskgrgou.  By virtue of State Council Decree 146 dated Septem-
ber 17, 1983, ICBC was founded as a spin-off of the former Savings Department
and the Industrial and Comercial Administration Department of the People's
Bank of China (PBC). ICBC does not have a Board of Directors but is headed by
its President who is appointed by the PBC with the approval of the State Coun-
cil. It remains the largest state-owned commercial bank with total assets of
Y 1,117.47 billion ($203.18 billion, which is estimated to be eighth largest
in the world) and net worth of Y 48.0 billion ($8.73 billion). Outstanding
loans and deposits amounted to Y 797.12 billion and Y 640.50 billion, respec-
tively, estimated at nearly half of the total loans and deposits of China's
financial sector. It is a banker to about 90 percent of the medium and large
state-owned enterprises (SOEs) and has the largest number of branch network,
with over 30,000 domestic branches/subbranches including 20,280 savings
offices and one representative office in Singapore, 208 foreign correspondent
banks, two subsidiaries and employing over 500,000 people. It is governed
mainly by its Articles of Association approved on November 15, 1989 and a
Statement of Policy approved in July 1990.
2.        ICBC's Shanghai branch is one of four participating financial insti-
tutions under the Bank's Shanghai Industrial Development Project. In 1991,
ICBC obtained a loan of $100 million from the Asian Development Bank for
relending to industrial projects including a technical assistance/training
component for ICBC's accounting, staff training, audit and management informs-
tion system. ICBC also raises long-term local currency resources through bond
issues (up to five years in maturity) which cumulatively amounted to Y 6.357
billion at the end of 1991.
3.        Organization. Manaaement and Staffing.  ICBC is headed by its Presi-
dent (Ms. Zhang Xiao) and four Executive Vice-Presidents (EVPs) at its head
office in Beijing. The head office has 20 departments divided among the EVPs
and the main groupings are: creditiloan and accounting; planning/research,
audit and international business; general administration and subsidiaries; and
savings and personnel. The head office is involved mainly in policy formula-
tion and overall supervision of branch operations. Lending operations are
fairly decontralized in its provincial and regional branches (29), city
branches (180) down to the prefectural, county, and district subbranch level
with varying delegated authorities. The head office performs some banking
activities mainly relating to foreign exchange and term loans under its Tech-
nical Innovation Credit (TIC) department.
4.        In December 1991, ICBC had a total staff of slightly over 500,000,
of which about 19 percent and 65 percent are university and high school gradu-
ates respectively and about 16 percent have had some vocationalltecenical
training. The head office has a small complement of about 800 people of which
two thirds are professional. While on-the-job training is emphasized, ICBC



- 125 -                            ANNE2_ 1
has five colleges, 43 adult middle schools, and 46 training centers. Its
training included the project appraisal program sponsored by the Bsank's EDI
where some 52 staff of its TIC department attended. The ADB technical assis-
tance component is providing funds for further training, particularly in loan
appraisal, project management and market analysis as well as in the management
of foreign exchange business.
5.        policies ond Strategies.  ICBC intends to expand its operations and
to work towards providing the full range of banking and financial products and
services focussing on medium and large industrial enterprises and export-
oriented enterprises. One of ICBC's priorities is to expand its international
business by increasing the number of its branches handling foreign transac-
tions and its network of correspondent banks and representative offices, by
onlending of credit lines from foreign/international institutions (e.g., World
Bank, ADB, etc.) and raising resources in the international financial market
through bond issues. Another major objective is to facilitate specialization
and/or mergers (enterprise groupings) in support of enterprise reforms in
China to improve efficiency. It also has prudent financial policies which
should promote a diversified portfolio, e.g., exposure limits on industrial
sectors (30 percent of portfolio) and single borrower (10 percent of its net
worth or Y 4.8 billion at 1991 year-end); and maximum project size of up to
Y 2 billions maximm debtlequity ratio (4tl) for project, minimum financial
rate of return (15 percent) and positive current ratio and debt service cover
of eligible projects. It ensures the "matching" of its uses and sources of
funds both in terms of interest rates, maturities, and currencies. Further-
more, ICBC has taken steps to better manage its liquidity by targeting a rea-
sonable "loan/deposit" ratio of 75 percent in several of its branches. One of
its medium-term objectives is to fully computerize and interconnect all its
branches and offices for which some technical assistance would be available
under the ADB loan. While ICBC does not formally have policies on its "gear-
ing" ratios, it is committed (under the ADB project) to maintain a maximum
total debt/equity of 20 times and net long-term debts/equity of 10 times which
are reasonable.
6.        Result of Ooerations and Finances. ICBC's actual and projected
income and balance sheet statements for 1987 to 1996 are provided in Attach-
ment 1. ICBC's gross revenues doubled from 1987 to 1991 to Y 75,755 million
with an average growth rate of about 22 percent per year. Despite the inter-
est changes in 1989/90, ICBC has kept its margin over 2 percent. Its net
income grew at about 11 percent per year reaching Y 6,339 million for 1991;
this is equivalent to 13.35 percent return on equity (or 7.35 percent after
inflation). Its administrative expenses averaged about 0.7 percent of total
assets which is reasonable. Its current ratio remained positive and averaged
slightly over 1.5 times. However, its capital/loan ratio has been declining
slightly from a high of 6.98 percent in 1987 to 5.75 percent at the end of
1991. Its gearing ratios have been maintained at reasonable levels with long-
term debt/equity at 8.29 times and total debt/equity ratio of within 20 * 1 in
1991. Although long-term loans more than doubled from 1987 to 1991 to
Y 105,508 million, ICBC's long-term resources more than tripled maintaining an
appropriate matching of maturities.
7.        Arrears and Loan Provisions.  At the end of 1991, ICBC's arrears
increased by 43 percent to Y 27,105 million up from Y 18,900 million in 1990.



- 126 -                            ANNEX 15
However, as a percent of total outstanding portfolio, arrears remained at a
relatively low level of 3.4 percent. Arrears from short-termi working capital
loans accounted for 98 percent of total arrears and were 3.8 percent of total
outstanding working capital loans; arrears from long-term loans amounted to
Y 562 million or 0.53 percent of outstanding long-term loans. ICBC expects to
maintain a collection ratio of about 95 percent which should be achievable
given the short-term nature of most of its portfolio and consequent close
monitoring of the accounts.
8.        Accumulated provisions for doubtful debts would amount to about
Y 2,590 million (9.6 percent of total arrears) which is equal to 0.32 percent
of total loan portfolio, a level currently allowed by the Ministry of Finance
(MOP). MOF regulations would allow this percentage to increase to 1.0 percent
of loan portfolio by 1997. However, ICBC is recommending an increase to
3 percent by 1997 which is appropriate and approaches international norms.
9.        ICBC's accounts are externally audited by the State Audit Adminis-
tration (SAA) which also audits other World Bank projects and is supported by
the Bank's TA projects to improve its capacity and standards. Under TIDP,
ICBC would provide the Bank with its audited financial statements including a
long-form audit and statement from SM on the adequacy of its loan provisions
(similar provision is contained in the ADB agreement). To help implement
ICBC's program to modify, upgrade, and modernize its accounting, auditing and
MIS, ADB is providing TA funds to finance consultancy/advisory services and
training.
Tianlin Municilal Branch
10.       Backaround.  While ICBC head office will be the signatory of the
Project Agreement with the World Bank under the TIDP, its Tianjin Municipal
Branch (THB) would be approved and authorized to implement ICBC's participa-
tion under the TIDP. THB is one of four municipal/autonomous regional branch
of ICBC (Tianjin, Shanghai, Guangxi, and Xinjiang branches). At the end of
1991, TMB had total assets of Y 28,048 million ($5,100 million), deposits of
Y 15,124 million ($2,750 million), total loans of Y 23,180 million ($4,215
million) and net income of Y 169 million ($31 million). Compared to other
branches, it is estimated that TMB ranks 12th in total assets and total loans,
16th in total deposits, 10th in net income and about 14th in total Technical
Innovation Credits (TIC) or long-term loans. It has a total staff of nearly
11,000 of which about 80 percent are considered professional (high school and
above education and with substantial experience in banking). TMB has 4 dis-
trict subbranches, 9 district business offices, 263 savings offices, and 5
county subbranches.
11.       Oraanization and Manasement. TMB's organization almost mirrors that
of the head office with equivalent 20 departments. One major difference is
that four departments (internal audit, supervisory, personnel, and trust/
investment agency) appropriately report directly to the president (equivalent
to the rank of EVP of head office) while the other departments report to three
Vice-Presidents divided basically into administration, lending operations,
banking/savings and international operations. Of note are separate department
for credit card and a training center. The main branch accounts for about
10 percent of the staff or 1,072 of which 872 are considered professional.



- 127 -                            AM    la
12.       Policies and StrateRies.  TMB's operations are implemented in
accordance with the policies and regulations adopted by its head office.
Under the TIDP, TMB has agreed to adopt some policies specific to its opera-
tions as contained in its Statement of Operating and Financial Policies. ICBC
and THS have agreed on these policies. ICBC head office would also consider
adopting similar policies for its other branches. It is significant that, for
the first time, TMB will adopt and formalize its policies in many important
aspects. For example, THM has a defined a timetable to achieve ICBC's plan to
attain a more reasonable loan/deposit ratio of 75 percent and a capital/loan
ratio of 10 percent by 1996. TMB also defines some important operational
exposure limits as followss (a) long-term loans not to exceed 30 percent of
total loan portfolio; (b) maximum of 35 percent of savings deposits to be
utilized for long-term loans; (c) exposure to single sector not to exceed
30 percent of TMB's total loan portfolio and 10 percent of TMB$s equity to a
single enterprise or maximum of 70 percent of client enterprise's total assets
whichever is lower. TNB targets a minimum collection ratio of 90 percent of
amounts due which is acceptable and will enforce agreed fixed loan repayment
schedules from clients which heretofore, have been flexible with emphasis on
foreign exchange loans. Furthermore, TMB will closely monitor and supervise
its loans ensuring that full leverage on the client is utilized to improve
repayment performance, e.g., working capital loans to be renewed only for
enterprises not in arrears on long-term loans. TMB will also require and
ensure full collateral coverage on loans and appropriate external audit of its
clients' financial accounts and statements. Such operating and financial pol-
icies would provide TMB appropriate and prudent guidelines for its operations.
13.       Technical -Inovation Credit DeDartment.  This department (TICITMB)
will be directly involved for ICBC's participation under the TIDP and given
the expected size of subprojects and subloans, would be undertaking the
appraisal of subprojects. It has a total staff of 222 of which 88 are in the
main branch. TIC in the main branch is headed by a general manager and three
vice-managers. One vice-manager is in charge of 4 divisions involved in proj-
ect appraisal/supervision: light industry and textile, heavy industry,
machinery and electronics, and research and development. This group has four
engineers, two economists, one lawyer, and two management engineer background.
Seven people are involved in appraisal on full-time basis including three
engineers and two economists. Since 1979, this group has been appraising and
approved 132 projects out of a total 214 TIC projects requiring mostly long-
term local currency loans. It is guided by ICBC's manual of operations for
TIC (full project cycle) and a project management and appraisal manual issued
in 1986 and patterned after the CIB appraisal manual. For TIC loans, it
requires a feasibility study, audited financial statements, and documents from
relevant approving agencies such as the finance and planning bureaus. TIC in
the main branch would, as a standard procedure, require a "credit check" on
the applicant's creditworthiness and inputs from a sector specialist from
relevant subbranches. Subbranches normally perform the regular follow-up with
quarterly reporting and coordination with TIC in the main branch which does
the full supervision up to project completion for all foreign exchange loans
(e.g., loans under the TIDP). While TIC has had substantial experience in
term financing, its staff needs to participate in the training to be provided
under TIDP particularly in the appraisal of enterprises restructuring and
market-oriented operations, analysis of environmental aspects, and TIDP's
procurement procedures.



- 128 -                            AM    15
14.       Financial Perfogmne, and Condition.  A sumaOry of TIMIs income and
balance sheet statements for 1987 to 1996 are shown in Attachment 2. ThE's
performance approximates that of ICEC as whole in terms of overall growth.
Gross revenues more than doubled from 1987 to 1991 to Y 6,426 million with an
average growth rate of about 24 percent per year. In 1989190, TMh has also
kept its interest margin over 2 percent. However, net income growth showed a
lower average growth of about 6 percent year (11 percent for ICBC) reaching
Y 135 million in 1991; TMB's return on equity are almost identical to ICBC as
whole, i.e., 13.18 percent nominal and 7.13 percent real. Its administrative
expenses averaged about 0.45 percent of total assets which low and 50 percent
that of ICBC as a vhole (0.7 percent). Its current ratio remained positive
and averaged slightly over 1.7 times. TME's capital/loan ratio was also
declining from a high of 7.15 percent in 1987 to 5.84 percent at the end of
1991 which are slightly lower than ICBC as whole due mainly to the low reten-
tion of profits by the branch. However, 1MB's projection show that by 1996
its capital/loan ratio would be 9.5 percent compared to a target of 10 per-
cent. Its gearing ratios have been maintained at reasonable levels with long-
term debt/equity at 6.85 times in 1991 and total debt/equity ratio was within
20sl for 1991. TMB like ICBC as whole maintains more than adequate long-term
resources to funds its term loans, i.e. ratio of term sources to term loans
remained at almost 3:1 by the end of 1991. Total loan/deposit ratio was high
in 1991 at 153 percent. To ensure its liquidity and lower costs of short-term
borrowings, TMB plans to exert efforts to mobilize its own deposits so that
such ratio would be within 100 percent by 1996; however, working capital loan/
deposit ratio would be at 75 percent by 1995.
15.      Arrears and Provislons.   At the end of 1991, TMB's arrears Were
reasonably low and amounted to Y 519 million or 2.3 percent of outstanding
loans. Arrears from short-term working capital loans accounted for 91 percent
of total arrears and were 2.39 percent of total outstanding working capital
loans; arrears from long-term loans amounted to Y 47 million or 0.2 percent of
outstanding long-term loans. ICBC expects to maintain a minimum collection
ratio of about 90 percent which should be achievable given the short-term
nature of most of its portfolio and consequent close monitoring of the
account. Accumulated provisions for doubtful debts would amount to about
Y 23.3 million (4.S percent of total arrears) or 0.1 percent of total loan
portfolio, a level currently allowed by the Ministry of Finance (MOF). TMB is
still projecting to maintain this level of provisions although it would follow
head office policies once these are approved by MOP, i.e. to increase accumu-
lated provisions to 3 percent of outstanding loans.
16.       The Tianjin Audit Bureau (TAB) conducts regular audits of TMB's
operations but are currently limited to accounts relating to the credit plan,
i.e., all accounts except profit and loss and agency business.  Under the
TIDP, SAA would authorize TAB to prepare audited financial statements of TMB
including audits of the project accounts, statement of expenditures, and spe-
cial accounts.   These audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within six
months after end of each fiscal year, i.e., by June 30.



IaA.twll san DCm           %Ifft   _ bw   Statame
for "ar .uiAd Zeomber 31                 IV"        iwo,   D ogo                    sv, z  lon         iTo        AMw       iooa  AM              IV9    l 010
Ozjdammud  6 =outh.
bIL.t an Loats                         23,433    29.431    37.9I"      60.132    62,974    64,101    36.201    6,S868    7S,89    790893    84,899    91.217
ruto"t o por  .(l 19               1.802      2.925     3,371      6,868      7,641     8,630      4.828     696        9,336     9,731    10.lit    10.3*4
A640071CO116 lotbar337                  1,042        904     2.102      1,301     3,004      1.1 If     ,244      S,A0      3.784      8.067     4.414
memaL  _                            235792     3.419     41.565    69.102    72.916    75.755    36.540    sO.o28    66.249    s24es    8.O013   106.109
mUUL  ow depots                           9037    11.348    17.260    31.384    34.319    36 147    1s,09          36 S.53    39491    42.649    46.061    4749.4
Intuteet ow borrosltu                S.21S   IO.17U       6,775     14,69      152       14.439      7,6       s 1.2    153941    16,738    17,373   S1.454
OLp     n      d       t Bpes".    1S94            1,943       987      32 4407   3,638      4.182     2372  4S∞.0          6,273      7.403     6,733     10.308
143       294        362       438        S19 610              418       792 9S1            11 41      13569     1.541
. for O          bts                   * 4se9    s 58641    $ 8224S    61 2321    7S80  0  330  390  667  603  39  3,12    2.231 6PS39            937       ass
prov. or o       el                         0 0                  0          2 0       0          05 0                           0          0         0          0
helm... tax *                           1,263      14,390    2,061      3,373     378  S         5.33  1,599       S3.8     4,136      44.48      1.147     3233
Total snbtte"                       IL174    22.334    30-9'6    53.888        _j-j_    319.614    3.35∞       6.7917   569.03  83_758    790524  6J.041
obomma imam                ~~8.418    I0.863    10.359     13.214    13.230    15.941      5.503    Lull3    17.0         1865-0    19.4961    Pg-j                       S
Lees. Staff some M  Vand lfsr* I"&          SO2      1,087     1,380      2,239     2,394      2,331     1,214      2,606     3.007      3.393     3.73       4,108
tonst katp TM                               400       400        400        400       400        400       200        400       400        400       400        400
2i_o  Wf         two" Tea            7.175      9.378     8.790    12∞373    1049e       12S990     4.091    125823 1S∞6S7179 86.77  1∞B376    17960
Ues tnome tfx                             4,249      3.662     58424   2 632        7.397      S.034     2,226      7,92      83         9,2        ,321      92247
Add$ DOW*/W*.Mlos.1t.                       505        543       462      1,1231     1,365     1403        543      1,343      1,698     3,87      2,034      2,239
W_3       4.059      4.193     6.974      4.2       6.330      2.50      6.417      61        7.512      I&"       9.7
tome taxi. total
s ese*taf _1.80                                   1.26      1.02       1.22      03         0.63      0.23       0.70      0.8        0.6       0.60       0.33
Ret £coo.ulw.. total oeset.              0.81       0.84      0.7        1.03       0.34      0.63      0.22       0.53      0.51       0.31      0.47       0.44
fkt  Inw  me.quitp                       13.0      14.27      12.64     18.3       10.03     13.33       4.91     11.63      12.02     11.60      11.14     10.34
cataIo   et                       7.00       7.50      16.00     13.00      10.00      5.00       3.00      6.00      3.00       3.00      3.00       3.40
so"l tax".                             4.08       6.77     -3.1 3e .37           0.03       7.33       1.91      3.63       7.02      6.00      6.14       3.34
aesets                       ~~~~~     ~~~~~0.61  0.62  0.60  0.65     0.74       0.57       0.31      0.65       .71       0.73       0.73      0.77
Income from ...u/Av.. lean portfolio     6.94       7.21      7.9       11.15      O."9       8.39      3.68       7.86      7.7        7.39      7.09       6.81
depoet:.                     ~~~~~     ~~~~4.06  4.32  3.12  8.06       7.69      6.11       2.76      3.20      3.23       4.99       4.77      4.54
Interest Marfn                ~~~~~~2.88  2.89      2.64      3.09       2.20      2.39       0.91      2.55       2.48      2.39       2.32      2.24
votes Op*r*tlqiadninstratles oxempoms Includes staff boomelwelfare for ratio sanaysts.



Industrial and Cainrasl Bnk %*CIns - Bl&nce Sheet.
Pert jee  aede )eoeur 31                   L,UO       spot       Zvi"    a                                             WYS LsVJ              IWIS Ld'6             L1
qW=   Asooto                                2.627     2,854      4,014      4,710      5,244      5,696      5,964      6,400      7,10006,00            ,00o1000
_tjt<I                   X630.006    46.195             53,953     69,S99    101.912     S3,059     94,109    152,"00    1700       191.00    214,500   240.2
0 3             o87,58    439,9 2    sl5125  61*2*OJ    691.612    727.966   774,0   867,700   9tl1W0  1.0688400  1,19.000
ewrrencj              3,3~~~~~~ ~~~04  714  5,7        8.210e.                           n..         .        U.S.       U.S.        ..        U&
0         0        754      141                  86,322     92,763     36,904    41,300      46,300    51.90      so,106
Total COrret  eAstt                  362.902    444.050    505.320    411.426    742.628    866,609   924.841    970.700  1.087.100  1.217.700  L363.800  1.327.300
am*s L.ola  otfolio                       378,441    437.77    499,079    578,7      694,013    797.120    644.304   868,172  1,007,403  1,128.742  1,243.9791,513
e  Capital   ns          3736,745    387,587   441,5222    514,371;'  6181,3>72,  6791,6121   7237.4    7897458,7020   0473,7800  927981,38001 6960.40190  1,219,000
h pres                                 0    50 o         53 207    3 1,120j7  1.7587     2,o5903s   3.187987   3,7724  t247 8 ,00   9,342    10,279      10,935
tore Losom                            41,876   s30,1 t       ,S637    64,404    76,543    105,508   116,338   117.700    131,700    147,400   165.300    165,200
,IVI"h nd           sa                     41,67     so:I       57 530        71667    7411010.;4j    111,400   124,700 16o9.80   156,eo                          7 e80
0    58                    4366        1,545 325  57.7 93 29 0H n       67                               n.         no
not taft-terl LO&e                    41.87 6     s0o188   57.327     63.016    75,674    105.500    116.330    117.700    131.700    147.L00    1.300    13.2009
Isnj  utess                            4,254     7,042      7,6512     14,46     14,410    46.541    46,84        74,300     6550 9So60          107,300    120.100
Mr& edIwauet                                    0         0       7,3      32,0       i3,400     42,243     49.027    417,400    53,300    1559.17000    66:600   70.800
1.5551580.    sciatien          68a~~~~~~~Go  973   '1,32     '1,743     '2.282       l..         .e,:e                 e        n.e:      lae.        U.n.
lkt Pimd asvta3.686                     4J.601     5."I        &4.45     7.912     10.170    11.279     11.300     12.600     14.100     15.800     17.700
Oter Asse"t.                               12,360     .7,331    13,653      8,092    20,536      24,276     18,654     26,000    S3,600     35,100    39,400      44,300
Total Aseets                           447.07S    523.212    596,672    736.460    S95.157  1.117.449  1.184.943  1.251,600  1.401.800  1.570.000  1,75.400  1.969.400
UIITW  &   1
w1Xt@t                          155,143    183,77     206,609    20W,617    245,206    277n366    341,51S   310,700    348,200   390,500                4     o90,00
Foreig   raq01,9                                                          ,2         94                               ..       ne         n.e.G      nk.e.      n
V              I                        139,r783    1513.8  1  164,5795   174,216    20,4     217,025    20s,7s5   244,500    274,000    307,300    344.400    386,300
Cuent  atats  of.
ldS.tCgS ~~~~~~~O528             0 ~~~~ 0             0          0       1:0        U.S.       U.&.       U.e.      U..        IL.*.      U.*.       M.e.
.2I~~~enois1 bands            1,65~~~~~~~9  1612    110        1,33       U.1         us.       u           .e.       U.S.       n.e.       U.*.       lu.e
Al   t;ot                          11 95w79   & :457ß    I'm137  53,10 u,90                nU.& n.e.             n.e.      nU..       u.s.       n.e.       n.e.
Tol Currnmt Lbilities                310.564    344.6U   394.581    3S5.20      4572    49211    547.2Q   555.200    622,200   697.00             782.000    877.100
98,572    130,482    149,350    20, 492   272,143    363,117   401,677   406,300   435,400   51,           $72,30    642,000
0  0    1,195     3.021      4,9~~~~~~~f.169    26,9107    32,6831    31,900    35,400    40,100  44,900    50,40
0  1,167    2.3~~~~:175  109       ,458     6,77       6,19       7,100      7,900      8900      t 10,000   120
0         0                                         ..        US.        US          ..       US
0         0 8  ∞                                   U 299.     U": n.     n.e.                 ne         U. 
Total  -t     Lbilitie                98,572    S11,849   1SS.241    210.921    280,.69    396.384    441.227    445.300   498.700    559.700   627.200    73600
Agency Business                           6,301      7,152      7,849      6,24      8,220     71,524     66,422     60,300    90,00    101,000    113,100   126,900
Tenet and                      0          0          0    27.490      29.2~~~~~            ~~~~~~0 3494 42,904  41,30  44,3  S:9:00 52             5,300
r 1   hts                                 3,93200    9,042     ∞6225    6396    f791,056    561,1376    27,441    59 200    64,700 $        4 2      580s   9O,S400
Total LSabilities                    420,757    492.659    561.896    495.324    048.219  1,053.481  1,125.264  1.18l.300  1.323.900  1.484.700  L.6g3.800 2,866.300
WtAi        ite                            18,449     16.449     16,449    16,449     18,449     18,449     16,.449    18,:400    16400      18400     16,400     16,400
at   ecin rofits                        187,48472    12,41404    16,328    282,680  26,4490    29'5964     37       15.000    42,300     48,200     56,700    64,600
LS,941     5:         6000    17,200       16,70      19,5oo    20 too
Total E4uStv                          24,321    30.553     34.777     41.137     46.939     48,047     54.176     54.300    60,700    66,600      75n.00    81.000                    t
Total Liabilities, and Butv          447,078    523.212    596.673   736.461    89S.158  1.117,469  L.184.945  1.31.4,00  1.401.800  I.570.000  1.78.400  1.969.400
m1Wsnt Ratio (times                         1.2        1.3        1.3        1.4         .   1.6        1.     7  1.7         1.7I            1.7        1.7        1.7                 I
CalLiAabizi Rat.eqio (ZineG)6.9                     6.90      4.864.4                                                60        6.0        5.9        5.94       5.8
T                                        15.99       14.12     16.1t 6t              18.0m      21         2077       21.76     21.81      22.29      22.15      22.4
Long-tern 8e~~~tlsquity (tines)  S~. 74   4.32       4.4                              8.29       0.1        8.0       622        6.4        035        846
Tern z      iTen Loan. (tinee)            32.984     324        3.28       3.95       4 32       4.23       4264       4.24       .252      4.24      84 25,      4. 25 
Notet CupSlfW ac         ratio does not reflect e4hted loan amounts by risk categories. TSre finea   includs epity plus long tarn debtel tern l1am  memo long-to



- 131 -                                              hWSL 1
ItLutAWte  an& CMe Wnel SA  g1 Chia - Income Statem
for yg sded Deceuber  i                              t∞ie.            t           Mr 'M            4       A    Pr 2t.t  d 
v,nc                             2,S72   4,170   6,930   7,294   6,426   6,940   7,496   8,095   6,743   9,442
later                               so 3w Oeskt vliB  S   5  91  124  132    142      153     166      17      193
UC .S.   tU.O.    U.-S.   aU.S.    U.S.    n.e.   n.S.    *.*.    a.e.    n.S.
Tetel I=9"                                          Ll   .4A_228   I.021   Zj_   6.4   5 S   Zs    7.649   S.26    8.922   9.638
m      on deolt                                     87      37      692      809     723      781     843      911     984   1.063
Inerest oa  dttorr e                                  2,289   3,321   5,799   5.96   5,000   5,400   5,832   6,299   6,803   70347
as et                                                            45      59      69       8S 9            10       119     131      144
£delntoratte. buena..          ~~4       4                                        to  9 1  11       12      13
Or.fer DOubtful Debts                                     0       15       2        3       4       4        4        4       4        4
ftoa. forhzer nLoee                                       0        0       0        0                        0   0    0                0
cIbe                                                     49       60      94      106     102      107     113      119     126      133
rew  i2663                                                    1L   6.W52   6.9U     5.926   6j99   6          7911   7.463   8.059   8.703
0peratim LOAM3P46                                            387      368     J        632     L6_3    23S      2l       84S     932
Leos Staff oi.  nd Wolfer. Fund                            16       18      26       31      51       61      46       71      77       83
Los,s bDe lpm.ntfund                                        6        7      11       12      20       24      26      2S       31       33
cMe Before Incoug Tax                                324       l      MLj     427      561     38a    64         99 _    I       S1J
to*$  Ifom  tea                                           23       240     228      29*     392     423      438     495      335      578
let Income                                         109      JU      In       135     169      In7    IL         220     12     S 
Uccme toawe. ttSot
aertto                                      0.00    2.11    1.46    1.16    1.25    1.40    1.32    1.29    1.25    1.23    1.20
not 3.melwe. total seete                       0.00    0.71    O.75    0.35    0.61    0.65    o.9    0.57    0.56    0.35    0.54
Not incomslsve. .9*Ays                        0.00   11.91   12.82    9.93   11.73   13.18   11.22   11.65   10.08    8.72    7.96
1fUt. rte                                   7.00    7.50  I1.00   15.00   10.00    6.00    6.00    5.00    5.00    $.00    5.00
Ree1 tax"                                  .7.00    4.41   -5.1S   .5.07    1.73    7.18    6.22    6.45    5.0S    3.72    2.96
Op t. & g_a. mp."n       0. tol
cest                                        0.00    0.33    O."       0.46    0.4      0.54    0.54    0.53    0.52    0.51    0.51
ntcome from LoenclIAw. loan portfolio         0.00   21.1S   18.35   26.63   2.53i  17.80   17.17   16.61   16.54   16.41   16.22
Vinancal ExpeneoolAve. borrowIng. &
de:tse                                      0.00   18.27   16.29   24.2   21.26   15.33   14.71   14.31   14.02   13.83   13.61
Interest MgTSU                                0.00    2.91    2.08    2.10    3.27    2.47    2.45    2.50    2.52    2.56    2.61
Notes OperatIftlodInnIstetivs, expansees Icludes oteff bowsalvelts"e for ratio osnelylo.



- 132 -                                              MNEX 15
Attachment 2
tutrl end CNA      rmcatl -k of ofin                    .
for year eaW  beeembot 31                     ssllc  IV Ivs.        Iw6esi     4yg     pgY& jjA £131    1111 "   eId  IIU3    £1w0
MET!
4 es    94     104      94     114      120     10      130     18       2S0
.ewedt etote                                        1,308   1,348   1,59   2,092   2,440   5,031   3,48   4,480   ,338   4,145
e's l∞%sta/                                    11,434  1,47.  4.0 t,9  1,801  19,775  321253   2.4S0  23.$90  24.360  25.520
Total Currt Aeet                                12   14.014  16.6    19.987 IL       4I 24.4  26.218  2S220 P.87e  lI.685
arog. Loan Portfolio                                 12.811  14.3SS  16.734  20,307  23.180 5.50o  27.75  s0.015  51,899  54,013
Lten  Workuin  Capital loane                       11,434  12,67   14,889  17,801  19,775  21,253  22,430  23,590  24.360  23,320
L e ..t.rn Loans                                      1.377   1.48I   1,865   2.306   3.405   4,247   5,525   ,423   7,539   8,493
vbihe yuan                                          1,343   1,480   1,568   1,896   24604   3,330   4.270   3,210   *,140   7,080
Le-IP *W-0-7 p                               34     205     297     410     797      917   1.035   1.213   1,599   1.613
Laos* .  vsai                                           0      13      16       19      23      27      31      35       39      43
Vat Loon-teno tLo                                1.377   1.670   1.849   LML   &M32   4t-#∞   LII4  JA90    7.500   8.650
4gc  B sUN"                                             941     900   1,037   1,189   1,327   1,300  1,670   1,800   2,040   2,230
Tr.aatd lusestmouto                                       0       0       0        0       0       0       0       0        0       0
Fled LAssts toast)                                       a.e    n.,    n.e      n.e    1.e       n.,      .S.      .0.    U.e     U.e
Las  " *c. eprdcSation                                n.e     U.S     n.S     U.*      n.e     n.4     n.e     U.S    U.a       U.&
ftPzd A-to                                          59      94      99      113     146S   in       J       220     260      28
Other Astate                                            277     444     400     437      660     878   1,270   1,830   2,560   3,78
Total Asgte                                       13_61  17.144  20.039  jj.21W  28.048  31.162  h4.6#   A 42 SAM   46.628
LThB!LI?I28 I ZUIST
Locaem   P                                        4,021   4,293   483U  53,02   6,936   8,100   9.300  11,000  12,600  13,700
Torefg  currecy                                    U.S.   U.S.   n.&.   U.e.   n.e.   n.e.   n.e.   U.S.    U.S.   U.e.
Borrowial: (PlC)                                    3.532   4,083   4,894   5,639   5,919   *,200   6,500   5,394   3,417   1,826
Ln  Star                                           n.e.   U.S.   Q.&.   n.S.   n.S.   n.S.   n.S.   U.S.   U.e.    n.S.
iac l        d                                             U..S.   U.S.   U.S.   n.S.   n.e.   U.S.    n.S.   U.S.   ns.
aund In transt                                        Ue.      .e.   U.S.   U.e.   U.S.   U.&.   n.e.    U.S.   U.S.            .&.
Total Current Labilites                            33 1       78   9.277  11.141  12J87L   j4J%M   A E0  1639"  16-017  1AIB6
-ter M "1101MSw
oal T     oa                                      3,323   3,713   5,091   4.684   8,188   9,600  11,400  14,400  17,900   21800
?oren currency                                     n.'e.   n.S.   U.'.   nk.e.   n.S.   n.S.   n.S.   U.S.   n.S.   U.S.
Fi nanil Bonds                                        101    156      i6i     2536     315     330     580     420     430      $00
L,4-terounRS gYC)                                      34  1S8        273     58       757     870   1,002   1,136   1,333    1340
auuqp Lss Proisions0                              0       0       0        0       0       0       0       0        0
Total Loo-tern uSbltiaa                          3.660   4.057   5.526   WM52        E  105S 00  12-982  16.176  19.683  25.840
A4ecy Busesn                                          855     906     991   1,149   1,409   1,60   1,700  18S0   1,120   2,350
Tguot and luva.tment                                    0       0       0        0                                        0       0
Otber LiblItiles                                    2,011   2,431   2,788   2,698   2,522   2,517   1,676      890      810     740
Total LiablSitie                               14.099  ISMSl  18.383  22331 56.064  2977 12.15e  X352  8.630  42.456
-w mcapital                                        771      771     771     771     771     771      771     871     971   1,171
Retained lamingp                                       145     314     317     441      381     731     945   1,439   1,774   2,049
Nat operating Profit.                                346     387     348     470      $32    468      736     798     843      932
Total tvu                                         S914     985   1.088    1"S2    2M    1.302   1?736   2.310   2.743   3.240
Total Liabilities and  Soultv                   15.361  17144  20,039  24.2U13  2.048  31.162  51h     38.460  42.238  46-628
Wflante Ratio (time)                                  1.7     1.7     1.8      1.8     1.7     1.7     1.7     1.7      1.9     2.0
Capital Adagucs Ratio (3)                            7.15s   4.87    6.30    5.97    3.84    5.90    4.26    7.71    8.62    9.34
Total Lib  tleeloquit  (time)                       1S.39   16.01   17.00   18.59   19.20   19.29   18.52   15.30   14.07   13.10
Long-tern dahtlequity (tbin.)                        4.00    4.12    5.00    6,21    6.85    7.19    7.48    7.00    7.17    7.56
ter finsncelTer  Loas (time)                         2.66    2.43    2.99    3.02    2.74    2.36    2.45    2.33    2.62    2.76
La Uaudited.
notet Cpital aequc  ratSo does not reflct wetigtd blen amounts by risk catarle. TeS fince mean. net long-tern lSbil-
itisa  tar  lo.t insn  long-tarn  l a    balance shet.
Sourcet IIJC.



-133 -                             ANEX  16
TIAJIN IN TIh  DEVELOEN  PROJECT
The Bank of Communications (BOCOO)
1.        The InstitutIon.  BOCOM was first established in 1908 in Beijing to
provide long-term finan¢e to the transportation and telecommunications sec-
tors. The bank was nationalized upon the founding of the PRC in 1949, but its
operations were subsequently suspended until 1986, when it was reestablished
by the State Council and relocated in Shanghai. On March 10, 1987, PBC
approved BOCOM's charter to operate as a nationwide comprehensive bank under
its supervision. It may raise funds and provide a full range of commercial
banking services in both local and foreign currencies, as well as establishing
subsidiaries, making equity investment, issuing guarantees, syndicating loans
and issuing and trading securities domestically and internationally. It may
also invest in or form joint ventures with overseas banks, finance companies
or enterprises, subject to the approval of PBC.
2.        BOCOM's business develonm2ent strateay is described as a "three com-
binations" strategy, combining domestic and international banking business,
wholesale and retail banking and traditional and nontraditional operations.
It has been one of the most innovative financial institutions in China, since
from its reinception it was allowed to select its own clients, to set up
branches where credit demand was greatest and to accommodate diversified own-
ership at the branch level (branches are separate legal entities). This
strategy has enabled BOCOM to gain the full support of provincial and local
governments.
3.        BOCOM was the first bank to adopt a nublic shareholding system and
to extend this to its branch network. PBC, as representative of the state,
holds 100 percent of the head office shares, while the head office holds a
minimum of 50 percent of the shares of each branch, with local governments,
enterprises and individuals holding the balance. Each branch therefore is a
separate legal entity with operational autonomy and financial accountability.
However, the head office exercises "unified leadership" over the branches in
the appointment and removal of principal staff, establishing operating poli-
cies and plans, operating rules and regulations and foreign-related business.
4.        BOCOM has 70 branches and subbranches In 69 cities, of which 27 are
engaged in foreign exchange transactions, 29 handle insurance and 38 deal in
securities. BOCOM's recent financial performance has been very satisfactory.
At the end of 1990, BOCOW had total assets of Y 78.5 billion, an increase of
48 percent over 1989. Total loan portfolio increased at a lower rate (42
percent), reflective of a lending slowdown, as the loan-to-deposit ratio
declined from 106 percent at the end of 1989 to 88 percent a year later.
Consequently, net profit increased 41 percent, to Y 1.6 billion, and return on
assets showed a small decline from 2.2 percent to 2.1 percent. Nevertheless,
BOCOC' a return on assets is quite high by international standards, and return
on capital employed (24 percent) is also very satisfactory.



- 134 -                            ANNEX 16
5.        BOCOM's Tianiin branch was established on February 28, 1992 with a
paid-in share capital of Y 205 million, of which BOCOM's head office holds
Y 50 million, Tianjin Municipal Government, Y 100 million and 26 entities
(factories, corporations and financial institutions) hold the balance of
Y 55 million. Other than its share capital, BOCOI-Tianjin's major source of
funds is deposits (Y 500 million). It will prepare its first annual financial
statement at the end of 1992, and it will be audited by the Tianjin Audit
Bureau. BOCOM-Tianjin has received the required authorizations to carry out
foreign transactions and to become a participating financial intermediary
(PFI) under the proposed TIDP.
6.        BOCOM-Tianjin's manaRement consists of a general manager and two
deputy general managers. Together with three other senior staff and two
representatives of the Tianjin Municipal Government, they form a seven-member
managing committee which is responsible for taking operational decisions.
BOCOM-Tianjin has a total staff of 145, of which 50 are professionals. It is
organized into 12 departments, with one third of staff in the Credit and
International Banking Departments.  BOCOM-Tianjin will be responsible for
appraisal and supervision of subprojects as a PFI for TIDP and will forward
each subproject it finances to the Bank for review. Four professional and two
support staff from the Credit and International Banking Departments have been
selected to form a long-term lending unit under the direction of the Deputy
Manager of the Credit Department, who would report to the Deputy General Man-
ager for International Operations. Several staff are from CIB and have long-
term laending experience. BOCOM has already begun working with CIB and will
adopt the same project appraisal and supervision manuals developed by CIB for
its own staff. Also, BOCOM is placing a great deal of emphasis on rapid ini-
tiation of staff training in subproject appraisal and supervision and training
carried out before loan signing could be financed retroactively under the
proposed project. However, BOCOM's participation in the TIDP will be limited
by the small size of its own equity and the corresponding limitation on its
cam exposure to any single borrower.
7.        BOCOM-Tianjin's main operating and financial policies have been
reviewed by Bank staff. These are now consolidating in a formal Statement of
Operating Policies and Procedures which establishes the basis for investment
financing activities, and provides prudential limits to safeguard its finan-
cial condition, such as: (i) exposure in a single enterprise or group of
enterprises should not exceed 20 percent of its equity; (ii) the ratio of
capital to different categories of assets weighed by their respective risk
should not be less than 10 percent; (iii) debt service and interest service
coverage ratios should be not less than 1.5 times; (iv) the ratio of long-term
debt-to-equity would be limited to a maximum of 5:1; and (v) collections
should be not less than 90 percent of total repayments due.
8.        BOCOM-Tianjin's financial forecast is supply driven, that is, it is
governed by its capital structure and leverage limit rather than potential
credit demand. Loan approvals in foreign exchange are estimated to be quite
high ($256 million) in 1992, reflecting sizeable foreign exchange deposits it
received following its inception, and would decline to $148 million in 1993
and increase thereafter to $274 million in 1995. Local currency approvals
(i.e., expected outstanding amounts under approved credit lines) would
increase from Y 2,298 million in 1992 to Y 5,000 million in 1995. This pat-



- 135 -                            ANNEX 16
tern of lending growth is consistent with BOCOM-Tianjin's commercial banking
orientation and the low leverage base from which it stsrted in 1992.
9.        Financial Performance.  Projected balance sheets and incame state-
ments for NOCON-Tianjin for 1992-95 are provided in attachments two and three
of this annex. A net profit (after business tax) of Y 25 million is projected
in 1992 (10.9 percent return on equity and 2.1 percent on assets), rising to
Y 50 million in 1995 (19.7 percent return on equity and 1.8 percent on
assets). The high return on equity is reflective of low initial leverage, and
the overall high returns are also due to the fact that BOCON-Tianjin is not
subject to income tax, since under the public shareholding system shareholders
pay income tax on their sehare of net profits (66 percent of which is distrib-
uted as dividends).  BOCOM-Tianjin's expected reliance on borrowing to finance
growth is reflected in its debt-to-equity ratio, which would increase from
4.2:l at year-end 1992 to 10.4:1 at the end of 1995. Long-term debt-to-
equity, which would be limited under the TIDP to a 5:l maximum, would increase
from 2.1:1 to 4.5sl. Overall, BOCOM-Tianjin's financial performance is
expected to be quite satisfactory.



- 136 -                         AML 16
Attachment 1
CHI
TIANJIN INDUSTRIAL DEmELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank of Communication--Tianlin Branch
ODerations
(Y million)
1992      1993       1994       1995      1996
Aprrovals
Local currency                  2,298     3,223      3,600      1,200     5,000
Foreign currency                  256        148       246        252        274
(* million equiv.)              (16.8)      (27)       (45)       (16)      (50)
Total                       2.551      3.371      3.846     4.452      5.271
Commitments
Local currency                  2,039     2,901      3,559      3,821     4,879
Foreign currency                  230        153       230        241       252
($ million equiv.)                (12)      (28)       (42)       (44)      (46)
Total                       2.269      3.057      3.789      4.062     5.131
Disbursement.
Local currency                  1,835     2,617      3,490      3,508      4,701
Foreign currency                  208        137       164        246        274
($ million equiv.)                (38)      (25)       (30)       (45)      (50)
Total                       2.013      2.751      3.654      3 Z54     4.978
Renavments
Local currency                  1,035     2,242      3,170      3,305      4,452
Foreign currency                   16         98        82        131        198
($ million equiv.)                 (3)      (18)       (15)       (24)       (36)
Total                        1.051     2.340      3.252      3.436     4.650
Net Loan Portfolio
Local currency                    790      1,135     1,451      1,634      1,862
Foreign currency                  191        230       312        427        503
($ million equiv.)                (35)      (42)       (57)       (78)       (92)
Total                          981     1.395      1.763      2.061     2.365



- 137 -                        AMW.N 16
Attacbment 2
TLANJIN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank of Communications--Tianjin Branch
IScome Statement
(Y million)
1992      1993      1994       1995      1996
Income
Interest Income from Lendina
Local currency                   57.9      91.6     119.0      142.0     162.0
Foreign currency                  8.4      11.6      14.3       20.3      23.3
Subtotal                      66.3     103.2     133.3      162.3     185.3
Interest Income from Deliosits
Local currency                    5.0       7.0       11.0      13.0      15.0
Foreign currency                  -         -         -          -         -
Subtotal                       5.0       7.0      11.0       13.0      15.0
Other Incame                        3.0       3.2        5.0       5.0       5.0
Total Income                  74.3     113.4     149.3      180.3     205.3
Exoenditureg
Interest (local)                   40.8      66.0      88.0      104.0     115.0
Interest (foreign)                  -         -          -         -         -
Fees (foreign)                                -          -         -         -
Subtotal                     A0.8       66.0      88.0      104.0     115.0
Management and other fees           5.1      11.0       13.6      20.0      27.0
Provisions                          -         1.0        1.0       2.0       2.0
Depreciation                        0.4       0.4        1.0       1.0       1.0
Total E,wenditureg            46.3      78.4     103.6      127.0     145.0
Profit before tax                  28.0      35.0      45.7       53.3      60.3
(les8) Business tax                 3.0       5.0       7.0        8.8      10.0
Net Profit                    25.0      30.0      38.        44.5      50.3



- 138 -                         NNEX 16
AttahmteL_t3
TiAlAN  UNMUSTRIAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Bank of Communications--Tianjin Branch
Bslance Sheet
(Y million)
1992      1993      1994       1995      1996
Assets
Current Asset.
Cash and bank deposits            90        156       202       233        271
Short-term loans
Local currency                 690     1,035      1,345     1,548      1,780
Foreign currency               191       219        247       269        284
Subtotal                      881     1.254      1.592     1.817      2.064
Long-term loans (current)
Local currency                   -        30         30        33         32
Foreign currency                 -         -          4        20         46
Subtotal                        -        30         34        53         78
Accounts receivable               75         75        75         75        75
Total current assets        1.046     1.515      1.903     2.178      2,488
Lona-term Assets
Loanst Local currency          100        100       106        86         82
Foreign currency         -        11        65        158       219
(less) Provision                 -        (1)        (1)       (2)        (2)
Net long-term loans              100        110       170       243        299
Equity investment                 10         10        10         10        10
Net fixed assets                   1          1         2         2          2
Other assets                      43         56        55        60         60
Total of lonA-term assets    154        177        237       315        371
Total assets                1.200     1.692      2.140     2,493      2.859



- 139 -                        ANNEX 16
Attachment 3
1992      1993      1994       1995      1996
Liabilities & Shareholders equity
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable                  46        107       166        261       265
Long-term liabilities (current)   -         158       227        286       322
Deposits                         283        360       467        538       629
Short-term liabilities            48         70        87        100       150
Total current liabilities    377        695        947     1.185      1.366
Long-term liabilities
Domestic borrowing             525        671       795        810       919
World Bank                       -         11        65        158       219
ADB                                         -         -  
Borrowing in other countries    -           -         -          -         -
Total lon1 -term liabilities  525       682        860       968      1.138
Other liabilities                 68         80        90         90       100
total liabilities             970     1.457      1.897     2,243      2.604
Shareholders' Eauitv
Paid-in capital                205       205        205       205        205
Retained earnings               25         30        43         45        50
total shareholders' equity   230        235        243       250        255
Total liabilities and
shareholders' eauitv       1.200     1.692      2.140     2.423      2.859



- 140 -                            AW4EX 17
CRINA
TIANJIN INDUSTRIAL DEVRElOPI4ENT PROJC
Estimat,ed Dlsbursements La
($ million)
Poft*le ES
Year           Period           Amount       Cumulative      Sector       Project
FY94        July-December        1.50            1.50            -            -
January-June         3.50           5.00            3             1
FY95        July-December        4.00            9.00            6            3
January-June         5.50          14.50           18             6
FY96        July-December       10.50           25.00          34            13
January-June        18.00          43.00           54            25
FY97        July-December       22.50           65.50          66            40
January-June        30.00          95.50           74            60
PY98        July-December       25.50          121.00          78            78
January-June        10.00         131.00           82            82
FY99        July-Decer-er        8.00          139.00          90            90
January-Ju..e        3.00         142.00           94            94
FY2000      July-December        3.00          145.00          96            96
January-June         5.00         150.00           98           100
FY2001      July-December        -               -             100            -
la Based on a disbursement profile of industrial development and finance
operations in China with adjustment for time needed in the first two years
to create new corporations and reorganize the subsectors.



- 141 -                            ANNEX 18
CH
TIANJIN INDUSTRIA1 DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Documents Available in the Prolect File
A-1    Report of Phase I study by AT Kearny on machine tools, construction
equipment, auto parts and electrwinics components subsectors
A-2    Report of Phase I study by Electric Design and Research Institute of
MMEI on electric motors subsector
A-3    Report of Phase IT study by International Business and Technical
Consultants, Inc., International Development Ireland and Tianjin
International Engineering Consultants Corporation on machine tools,
construction equipment, auto parts, electronics components and electric
motors subsectors
B-1    Charters for corporations prepared by Tianjin Municipality
B-2    Official Tianjin Municipal Government Statement on development program
and strategies for the five subsectors of TIDP
B-3    Detailed working papers for TIDP



