Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21069
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-35720; SCL-3572A)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US $150 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FORA
PROJECT ID: P003533
L/C NUMBER: 35720/3572A
TIANJIN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 19, 2000
Private Sector Development (PSD) Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November, 2000)
Currency Unit = Chinese Yuan (Y)
Y 1 = US$ 0.12
US$ 1 = Y 8.28
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOCOM        --    Bank of Communication
CCID        --    China Construction International Development Co.
CIB          --    China Investment Bank
CNC          --    Computerized Numerically Controlled
DPS          --    Development Program and Strategy
ERR          --    Economic Rate of Return
FRR          --    Financial Rate of Return
GOC          --    Government of China
ICBC         --    Industrial and Commercial Bank of China
JV          --    Joint Venture
LOC          --    Line of Credit
MOF          --    Ministry of Fiannce
PFI          --    Participating Financial Intermediary
SETC         --    State Economic and Trade Commission
SOEs        --    State-Owned Enterprises
TAPC        --    Tianjin Auto Parts Corporation
TCMC         --    Tianjin Construction Machinery Corporation
TMTC         --    Tianjin Machine Tool Corporation
TEPB         --    Tianjin Environment Protection Bureau
TIDP         --    Tianjin Industrial Development Project
TLIP         --    Tianjin Light Industry Project
TMG          --    Tianjin Municipal Government
TMEIC        --    Tianjin Machinery & Electric Industry Company
TPMO         --    Tianjin Project Management Office
TVEs         --    Town and Village Enterprises
Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din (Jamil) Kassum
Country Director:   Yukon Huang
Senior Manager:   Loup Brefort
Task Team Leader:   Naiqin Lu



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
I. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  16
6. Sustainability                                                                       18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       19
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     21
9. Partner Comments                                                                    22
10. Additional Information                                                             30
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   42
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   44
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   47
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   48
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    50
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      51
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  52
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Po'oject ID: P003533                                       Project Name: TIANJIN IND. 11
Team Leader: Naigin Lu                                     TL Unit: EACCF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: December 21, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: TIANJIN IND. 11                                 L/G/TF Numher: CPL-35720;
SCL-3572A
CountryIDepartment: CHINA                                                 Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: HR - Reforrn and Financing
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/28/89                                 Effective:  11/28/94
Appraisal:  05/29/92                                   MTR:
Approval:  03/16/93                                 Closing: 06/30/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: Chinese Government/MOF, TMG, ICBC,BOCOM, TPMO
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din (Jainil) Kassum               Gautam Kaji
(EAPVP)
Countrv Manager:     Yukon Huang (EACCF)                         Shahid Javed Burki
Sector Manager:       Loup Brefort (EASPS)                       Zafar Khan (Acting)
Team Leader at ICR:   Naiqin Lu (EACCF)                          Zafar Khan
ICR Primary Author:   Zafar Khan; Naiqin Lu
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU-Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability. L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performnance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time:



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3. 1 Original Oblective:
At the time of preparation of this project, Tianjin was one of the three largest cities in China with the status
of a province. Although in 1990 its industrial output accounted for only 3 per cent of the national industrial
output it was quite sizable in absolute terms ($15.2 billion). By 1999, industrial output increased to $27.3
billion with little change in relative share. In line with the national policy, in 1980 the Tianjin Municipal
Govenunent (TMG) started implementing a series of reforms to restructure the industrial sector. The Bank
began supporting this program through Loan 3022-CHA (approved in February 1989) for the Tianjin Light
Industry Project (TLIP). Later TMG proposed a second industrial restructuring project, viz., Tianjin
Industrial Development Project (TIDP) for Bank assistance (Loan 35720/3572A, approved in March
1993). This project aimed at accelerating and broadening the reforms initiated with TLIP, and extended
Bank support for restructuring additional priority subsectors.
As part of project preparation, an in-depth study of five industrial sub-sectors was carried out in two
phases by intemational consultants (financed under IDA Credit No. 1 664-CHA). Phase I established
Tianjin's comparative advantage in these sub-sectors based on selected product groups; and proposed
strategies and development programs. Phase II provided implementation plans at the municipal, subsectoral
and enterprise levels for these strategies and programs. Based on the study findings and recommendations,
a development program and strategy (DPS) was prepared by TMG for the five subsectors. These were
discussed and agreed with the Bank and the government during project preparation. Economic and
enterprise refonns were the focal points of the strategy and the project was to assist in their implementation
on two fronts. Firstly, the project aimed at supporting the govenunent in carrying out sub-sector policy
reforms (such as liberalization of investment, production, and pricing; improvements in the foreign trade
regime; increased labor mobility, social security and housing reformns, and promotion of industries where
Tianjin had a comparative advantage). Secondly, the project proposed a set of enterprise refonns (such as
corporatization, improvements in the contract responsibility system, reorganization of sub-sectors,
introduction of modem management systems and procedures, and promotion of joint ventures), aimed at
improving the efficiency and profitability of the enterprises.
The project formed part of the Bank's overall effort to support the implementation of GOC's industrial
restructuring program. It focused on five important industrial subsectors in Tianjin, viz. machine tools,
construction equipment, auto parts, electronic components, and electric motors, that the mtnicipal
government had given high priority for development for the 1 990s. The project proposed to assist in the
implementation of the Tianjin government's development program and strategy for the above subsectors
with the following specific objectives:
(a) acceleration of policy and enterprise reforms in the selected subsectors;
(b) modemization and restructuring of subsectoral enterprises based on economic criteria and
commercial viability;
(c) strengthening of institutional infrastructure for strategic planning, systems development and
implementation, engineering and technical support services, and human resource development
and redeployment;
(d) organizational restructuring and improvement of internal enterprise management and systems;
and
(e) diversification and strengthening of the financial intennediation process.
- 2 -



The project objectives were clear and realistic, and were also consistent with the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy. In particular, policy and enterprise reforms, institutional development, and
improvements in the financial intennediation process were confined to what the municipal government and
other implementation agencies could carry out within the project timeframe. Furthermore, they were backed
up by appropriate technical assistance.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project totaling $150.0 million consisted of two main components:
Financial Assistance Component. The project included a Bank loan of $134.5 million to assist in the
restructuring of enterprises in the five subsectors. The funds, a line of credit (LOC) were to be onlent
through participating financial intermediaries (PFIs), which assumed the credit risks and were responsible
for the appraisal and viability assessment of the individual subprojects. The LOC would be used to import
machinery and equipment and to finance working capital and interest during construction on foreign
exchange loans. PFIs would ensure that: (a) all projects financed under TIDP were consistent with the
development program and strategy of TMG and their own investment criteria which included a minimum
ERR and FRR of 12 percent; (b) the subproject and sponsoring enterprise/factory were in compliance with
environmental guidelines; (c) sub-borrowers were corporations established pursuant to the organizational
restructuring of subsectors as agreed between the Bank and TMG and with charters acceptable to the
Bank; and (d) such enterprises had a satisfactory projected financial position, in particular a debt-service
coverage of at least 1.5 times, a current ratio of at least 1.5:1, and a long-tenn debt/equity ratio of 70:30.
Technical Assistance. A technical assistance component of $15.5 million was included in the form of a
Bank loan to finance equipment, computer hardware and software, advisory and consultancy services, staff
training, studies, etc. for subsector restructuring and strengthening of PFIs. It included $1 1.8 million to
strengthen the design and research activities and vocational training in the five subsectors in order to
implement TMG's strategy for the development of technology infrastructure. A sum of $2.5 million was
provided for consultant services to assist in the implementation of the project with a focus on
reorganization, management information systems, industrial engineering and operational effectiveness. An
additional sum of $700,000 was provided for training enterprise managers and staff in various disciplines.
TA included $300,000 for strengthening the institutional framework for labor redeployment in Tianjin.
Finally, a sum of $200,000 was provided for training PFI's managers and staff.
The line of credit and TA components of the project were directly related to project objectives.
The project did not benefit from lessons leamed about other Bank-financed industrial restructuring projects
in China because none had been implemented prior to preparation of TIDP. Tianjin, however, had a
generally satisfactory record of implementing a light industry restructuring project (TLIP) financed by the
Bank in 1988, and it was expected to implement satisfactorily the TIDP. However, it is worth noting that
many of TLIP subprojects ran into difficulties after project completion because of marketing deficiencies.
- 3 -



3.4 Revised Conmponents:
China Investment Bank (CIB), Industrial and Commnercial Bank of China (ICBC), and Bank of
Communication (BOCOM) were the three PFIs identified at the time of project preparation. CIB, however,
decided to withdraw early on into the implementation phase because it was going through a major
reorganization at that time. Two subsectors-electric motor and electronic components--were also dropped
by Tianjin because: (i) there was only one project in each subsector; and (ii) the sponsors decided to
withdraw due to difficulties with foreign partners in electronics and the use of alternate ftmds for electric
motors. The LOC amount therefore was reduced to $119 million and, with a subsequent cancellation of a
subloan application (doz) and with savings in others, the net LOC amount ended tup at $98.12 million.
The total TA amount was also reduced from $15.5 million to $6.91 million, partly because the government
decided to use other sources of funds for labor redeployment and training centers. Moreover, additional
savings were realized in other TA components because of the fewer subsectors from 5 to 3. This reduction,
however, did not require a restructuring of the project.
3.5 Qu ality at Entr::
The project proposed a comprehensive approach to industrial restructuring in the selected subsectors. It: (i)
provided for policy and enterprise reforms that would allow greater autonomy to enterprises through the
corporatization and commercialization process; (ii) phased out non-viable units and products; (iii)
promoted viable entities through mergers, consolidation and joint ventures; (iv) introduced modern
management techniques and infonnation systems; (v) strengthened industrial support institLtes; (vi)
improved project selection and appraisal by PFIs; and (vii) modernized selected enterprises. Intemational
consultants were recruited to assist in project preparation and during implementation.
The major flaw at entry was that the Chinese and the Bank had not yet seen the outcome of similar
industrial restructuring projects in China. It was later leamed that SOEs continue to be inherently weak
despite reforms. For example, managers do not yet have full autonomy and accountability for investments,
operations, and financial results. Financing of cost oven-uns is extremely difficult in a
government-controlled budgetary system. Management focus remains on production rather than on
marketing. Incentives and know-how are lacking in order to adjust swiftly to market changes, to minimize
cost, to improve quality of production, and to enhance competitiveness. Working capital shortages-which
are both the cause and effect of "triangular debt" problem-restrict operations and debt servicing.
Enterprises, particularly those that have recently received substantial borrowings are now highly leveraged
and carry high and recurrent financial costs. The later experience also showed that industrial projects in
China generally suffer from marketing problems. Information on demand and supply of products--past,
present, and future-is lacking, making it extremely difficult to determine the market viability of projects.
Furthennore, local governments and managers of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) sometimes appear to have
preconceived ideas of market prospects for their new products or about their competitive position; anid do
not make adequate efforts to assess competition. The increase in domestic capacity faster than demanld,
liberalization of imports, and increase in production cost without a corresponding increase in sales
revenues, will render many projects non-viable upon completion. PFIs do not have the expertise to
independently assess the market during project appraisal and generally rely on infornation supplied by the
enterprises.
-4 -



The project design also did not place a maximum limit on subloan size because loan proceeds were to be
used for the restructuring of large-sized heavy and high-tech industries. In retrospect, this was not a good
approach as unusually large amounts of funds were provided to the diesel engine subproject, which
ultimately experienced financial problems. Had there been a maximum limit on subloans (say, 20 percent of
the line of credit amount), PFI and sub-borrowers could have been better able to diversify risks more and
improve portfolio performance.
On balance, the quality of project at entry is considered marginally satisfactory mainly because incorrect
assumptions were used concerning the inherent weaknesses of SOEs. Moreover, market assessment of
subprojects were inadequate.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcoine/achievement of objective:
Policy and Enterprise Reforms. Policy and enterprise reforms outlined in the DPS have been
implemented and the outcome is satisfactory. At the time of project preparation, the refonn process had
advanced much further than expected. Reforms included the corporatization and establishment of
share-holding companies, abolishing price and production controls and the mandatory or indicative price
and production targets, labor redeployment and introduction of a new tax system. In 1998, the Tianjin
Municipal Govermment (TMG) had been implementing the plan for redeployment of surplus labor and had
also established the redeployment center. Each subproject corporation as well as other industries in Tianjin
have also set up such centers to provide job re-training for displaced workers. In line with the national
program, TMG is now preparing to improve and widen the coverage of social security system in support of
the refonn process. Laid-off workers would directly enter the labor market, starting from 2001, and
redeployment centers will be closed subsequently. TMG had planned to remove about 10,000 surplus
workers from the five subsectors originally included in the project. However, only three subsectors have
been restructured and one of these, auto parts, underwent only limited restructuring (one instead of two or
more subsystems). By the end of 1999, the construction machinery and the machine tool subsectors, the
major beneficiaries under the project, had downsized 6500 surplus workers. Refonn in the area of foreign
trade allowed enterprises with a minimum threshold of $1 million of foreign exchange eamings or with
advanced technology based products to trade directly.
All non-viable units and products in the auto parts, the machine tools, and the construction machinery
subsectors have been closed and discontinued, as specified in the DPS. Also, low value-added products
have been transferred to other plants, and production is more specialized.
Separate corporations, Tianjin Machine Tool Corporation (TMTC), Tianjin Construction Machinery
Corporation (TCMC), and Tianjin Auto Parts Corporation (TAPC) were set up in 1993/1994 for each
subsector, as required under DPS. TMG confirmed that all enterprises were then merged into these
corporations though they continue to maintain their original legal status. The idea of merger of all viable
enterprises in a subsector corporation originated from the recommendations of consultants in the Shanghai
Industrial Development Project (SIDP-Loan No. 3288 of FY91). The Bank and the Chinese were
favorable to this idea and were adapted for this project. However, Shanghai later confronted practical
problems in implementing the recommendations (mainly significant operational and technical differences
between the enterprises in the same subsector and fear of smaller enterprises' loss of identity in one large
corporation). As a result, SIDP could not become effective and the Bank loan was canceled. The Tianjin
authorities and implementing agencies showed greater flexibility in this regard. They later allowed the
enterprises to keep their legal status while being merged as divisions/workshops into the new corporations.
- 5 -



These enterprises were allowed greater control and autonomy within a broad set of policy and operational
guidelines. This proved to be quite beneficial because China was accelerating its transformation from a
planned to a market economy, resulting in more intense competition in the industrial sector. With the added
competitive and market pressures, subsectoral corporations have delegated more responsibility and
accountability, including cost control and revenue targets, to enterprises at production front lines. Now the
relationship between TMTC and its two merged enterprises is more in the nature of a
parent-company/subsidiary.
Sector corporations have been authorized to make investment decisions up to Y30 million on technology
improvement projects. Investments of Y30-Y50 million are approved by TMG, Y50-Y200 million by
SETC and, above Y200 million by the State Council.
In line with the national trend, during 1996-2000, Tianjin closed 355 non-viable industrial units (221
through mergers and 134 through bankruptcies), allowed private/individual ownership in 115 SOEs, listed
15 enterprises on the stock market, and carried out financial restructuring of 10 large enterprises (which
included debt-equity swap and write off of debt of Y22 billion). Tianjin now has 368 meditun- and
large-sized SOEs.
During project preparation, it was noted that Chinese industry lacked specialization, placed too much
emphasis on vertical integration, discouraged out-sourcing, and fragmented. This held back improvements
in efficiency and competitiveness. TIDP attempted to address the above issues in the Tianjin project
subsectors by phasing out non-viable products and encouraging specialization. But these problems are still
quite common in varying degrees in other regions and subsectors. As such, the Tianjin project entities that
would like to increase their collaboration are facing resistance from these other provinces/municipalities.
Modernization and Restructuring of Subsectoral Enterprises. The investment component in TIDP
established according to development program and strategy (DPS) under the project has been used for
technical restructuring and modemization of subsector corporations. In 1999, the auto drive train system
(subloan code A- 1), metal cutting machine and hydraulic press machine (A-4), and engineering machinery
(A-5) sub-projects have been completed and placed under commercial production. The diesel engine
subproject (A-3) has not yet gone into operation and is facing several problems, as discussed later. As
indicated, the net approved subloan amount totaled $98.12 million for the four subprojects and
implementation was delayed about 6-18 months. The delays were mainly because import duties on imports
were being assessed which were not required at the time of subproject appraisal. This was ultimately
resolved in January 1998, but nevertheless it led to disputes and delays in the acceptance of some of the
imported equipment, particularly in the diesel engine subproject (A-3) of TCMC. Comparative data on the
four subprojects is provided in Table 1, section 10, and a brief information is given below.
Tianjin Auto Parts Corporation (TAPC) (Subloan A-i, $18.73 million) The Bank loan was used to
finance the auto drive train system of TAPC in order to greatly expand the annual production capacity of
gearboxes by 50,000 units to 80,000 units and rear axle gears by 100,000 units to 160,000 units. The total
capacity of gearboxes actually increased to 150,000 sets with the financing of another locally sourced
project which was completed during the subproject implementation. Most of the equipment of the
subproject was produced on schedule, but the adjustment and acceptance of a few items was delayed. The
subproject started its nornal operation in 1999, with a delay of one year. The actual total cost of the
subproject was $24.11 million equivalent, compared to the original estimate of $23.48 million. The actual
foreign cost was lower by $ 2.34 million because of changes in the exchange rates on imported equipment.
The actLal local cost was higher by $3.15 million equivalent, due to higher import tariffs (about Y 13
million that was not anticipated at the time of project appraisal) and more purchases of auxiliary
- 6 -



equipment.
The actual capacity utilization of TAPC was 60 percent in the first year of normal operations, i.e. 1999.
However, the project started normal operations with one year delay. The company has been developing new
products, by using CAD/CAE/CAM of the technology center, financed under part B- 1 of the project. New
types of high precision gearboxes will be put into operation in the year 2000 and new rear axle gears are
also being developed.
Despite a 10 percent decrease of prices in 1999 due to severe competition, TAPC's net after tax profit
almost doubled from 1998, from Y7.4 million to Y13.4 million. This improvement was mainly due to
reduction in production costs, through strict intemal cost control, earlier labor retirement and cheaper raw
materials. In 2000, the production of gearboxes will decrease from 1999 because of lower demand fromn
Tianjin Xia Li Car Company (TXLCC)-TAPC's main buyer. The situation may improve by 2001 when
Tianjin Xiao Li Car Company is expected to introduce new models in the market.
Operation
Year                     1998     l      1999           2000 (target)
Production (unit)       iGearboxes     85,000          98,000             90,000
Production (unit)        Axle gear     72,000          100,000            100,000
Sale (Yuan million)                     367.96         373.88             366.00
Profit after tax (Yuan million)          7.40           13.47              18.76
The short-term financial position of TAPC at the end of 1999 was weaker than originally estimated as
indicated by low current ratio. The actual current ratio was 0.88:1, much lower than the estimated 1.54:1
due to the increase in accounts payable. The actual debt/equity ratio was 57:43, close to the appraisal
estimate of 56:44. The debt-service coverage ratio of the company was 1.48 at the end of 1999, only a bit
lower than the estimated 1.54.
The recently approved debt-equity swap program of YIOO million will be implemented by TAPC in 2000
to improve the capital structure and the total debt/equity ratio, and to reduce the interest expenditure.
According to the development strategy of the enterprise, TAPC will focus on developing new types of
products and increasing the production and sales of new types of high value added gearboxes. The capacity
utilization rate would reach 80 percent in 2002, based on the current development trend. However, the sales
revenues would become quite flat, because the price may have to be reduced by 10 percent in 2000 and
2001, due to intense competition. It is planned that the new product, automatic gearboxes, will be put on
the market in 2002, to enhance TAPC's competitiveness and to meet the new product needs of its end user,
Tianjin Xiao Li Car Company. Sales of its rear axle gear are increasing, by expanding its market to other
users. When the capacity utilization increases and the higher economic scale is achieved, the enterprise can
further control its production cost and improve market competitiveness. As a result, TAPC would be able
to maintain satisfactory operating results and financial position in future years. The projected financial
position of the company is given in Table 2. Financial projection of subborrowers, under Section 10.
Tianjin Construction Machinery Company (TCMC, $44.5 million for A-3 and A-S) TCMC has
received two subloans--$44.5 million (A-3) for its diesel engine division and $16.8 million for the
engineering machinery division (A-5). As to the diesel engine subprolect, upon its completion, the
equipment and workshop financed under the subproject will be leased to a joint venture (JV) between
TCMC and Perkins, UK, which has also provided technology. The JV, established in 1997, will pay the
leasing fee to TCMC, as the source of subloan repayment and charges for the use of facilities. Perkins has
been merged with Caterpillar (USA) in March 1999.
- 7 -



The diesel engine subproject was originally estimated at $68.07 million but the actual cost was $67.26
million as of June 30, 2000. Cost overruns could result in future because of delays being experienced in
subproject start-up. The subproject envisages to produce 30,000 sets of Perkins engines per year. While the
subproject is nearing completion and has started assembly operations, it has not yet commenced nonnal
operations because of major difficulties, relating to the equipment, marketing, emission standards, and
relations with the foreign partner of JV.
The equipment financed under the project is state-of-the-art, and comes from well-known domestic and
international suppliers. Trial runs have been completed on most of the equipment. Few quality-related
problems remain on some of the imported and domestic equipment. Two horizontal CNC valve seat bore
machines have not been adjusted because the supplier, Heckhert (Gennany), went banikrupt and was
acquired by another company.
The domestic market of new diesel engines with Perkins technology could be promising due to their high
quality and fuel-efficiency, but near-tern prospects are not good. TCMC has tried to sell locally assembled
Perkins' engines but sales have been significantly below expectations. According to TCMC, the engines
with Perkins technology have three times longer life compared to other locally made engines and are more
efficient with less emission, but they are also about 90 percent more expensive and potential customers are
discouraged from buying them. Prices are expected to drop considerably once the Perkins licensed diesel
engine achieves a local content of 79 percent instead of the current 35 percent. However, the product will
still be 50 percent higher than other comparable diesel engines produced locally. Besides, an increase in
local content will require cooperation among other local enterprises and additional investment. Moreover,
technical specifications (like HP) would be required in order to accommodate a larger number of local
customers. All this will require integral planning, comprehensive coordination, technical development,
investment and time. TCMC has negotiated to supply engines to the No. 1 Auto Works in Changchun, Jilin
Province. Although the JV signed the long-term cooperation agreement with the No. I Auto Works, the
contract to supply new diesel engines has not yet been signed.
The joint venture reported that the emission level of the licensed product meets EURO 0 emission
specifications required at the time of subproject approval. China later passed new regulation requiring that,
as of January 1, 2001, all newly manufactured diesel engines must meet EURO I emission specifications.
This could have further negative effects on market acceptance of this engine as the major original
equipment manufacturers (OEM) would be reluctant to sign a long-term supply contract without first
verifying compliance with the new emission regulations in China. TCMC and Perkins are collaborating to
upgrade the engines. As a standby arrangement, it has also established cooperation with the local technical
institutes for this purpose.
The foreign partner of the joint venture has become less interested in the subproject. It has expressed its
intention to either lower its equity share in JV from the current 60 percent, to seek a third partner for cash
contribution, or to switch from JV to a license agreement. According to the information provided by TCMC
and Tianjin Machinery & Electric Industry Company (TMEIC), this change in attitude of the foreign
partner may be the result of the present poor domestic market; high receivables for engines sold; the
potential impact of China's joining the WTO; Caterpillar's global development strategy as well as its
strategy in China, which could be different from that of Perkins, etc. In the most likely scenario, TCMC
will have a much higher share in JV. The operation of TCMC and JV is listed below.
- 8 -



Operation
Items                   1998       1999      2000 (target)
Production of diesel engine (sets)     980         340          600
JV    Sale (Yuan million)                     21.3       47.7         24.5
Profit after tax (Yuan million)        -9.4       -9.9         -11.1
TCMC   Sale (Yuan million)                     195.1      203.9         271.6
_  Profit after tax (Yuan million)     -15.1      -14.1         -33.5
TCMC was reorganized in 1999. It has now only two divisions: the diesel engine division and the dozer
division. TCMC's projections at the time of appraisal covered four divisions rather than two and, as such,
are not comparable. TCMC suffered a loss of Y14.06 million in 1999, which is expected to increase to
Y33.5 million in 2000. The current ratio of TCMC was quite low at 0.61 in 1999, due to the large amount
of short-term payables and loans. While the long-term debt/equity ratio was satisfactory at 68:32, total debt
to equity ratio was excessively high at 90: 10, meaning that debt-servicing ability is seriously jeopardized.
In 1999, the debt-service coverage ratio of TCMC was only 0.29, much lower than the required 1.5.
TCMC has requested a debt-equity swap program to reduce Y200 million long-tenn debt. It has been
incorporated in the D-E swap package of Tianjin Machinery and Electric Industry Corporation (TMEIC).
TMEIC's proposed D-E package was not approved in 1999 but TMEIC is continuing its efforts. If
TCMC's D-E program is approved, its financial burden may improve but may be only short-term if future
losses are not contained.
However, technical support and working capital are needed and the production line would have to be trial
run, acceptance tested, and the emission standard upgraded by April 2001. Under very favorable and
perhaps optimistic assumptions, the subproject could start batch operation in May, 2001 and produce
5,000 sets of diesel engines during the year. Should these events occur, the projected FRR would be revised
downward to 7.02 percent (lower than 18.86 percent at appraisal) and the ERR to 9.42 percent (lower than
22.61 percent at appraisal). However, a firm plan and concerted efforts are still necessary to meet the
target dates. Under more realistic assumptions with a one-year delay in start-up of operations, the FRR
would decrease from 7.02 percent to 6.3 percent.
The JV is expected to incur a loss from 2001 to 2003, mainly due to the following reasons: (a) operations
will still be low; and (b) the leasing fee is quite large even in the initial operation years. It includes
payments from 2001 to 2012, to cover, inter alia, the repayment of both the World Bank loan and local
borrowing for this subproject. When the annual production of the JV is increased to 22,000 sets of diesel
engines, the subproject would reach break-even and would presumably start making profits in 2004.
TCMC's financial projections have been prepared according to its five year plan (summary in Table 2,
Section 10). Although the sales of TCMC in 2000 will be better than that in 1999, the projected increase
in sales during the next few years seems to be optimistic, especially for Dozer. Based on TCMC's own
plan, the current ratio would improve from 0.73 in 2000 to 1.12 in 2004, but will still be lower than the
required ratio of 1.5. TCMC will still incur losses in 2000-2001, due to high interest and depreciation
charges. TCMC could make profit from 2002, to be contributed by the sale of its other products and
leasing fee collection. The long-tenn debt to equity ratio will decrease from 67:33 in 2000 to 41:59 in 2004.
Assuming TCMC's debt-equity swap for Y200 million long-term debt could be implemented in 2000, the
total debt/equity ratio would be reduced as well as other relevant ratios could be improved. Debt-service
coverage ratios in 2000 and 2001 are lower than 1, implying that TCMC cannot repay the debt out of
-9-



operating cash flow. The ratio may improve from 2002.
Enzineering Construction Machinery Subproject (subloan A-5. $16.80 million) The Bank sub-loan has
been used to finance the engineering machinery division of TCMC, to increase the anmual production
capacity of graders from 410 to 800 sets, and, that of wheel loaders, from 200 to 700 sets. The subproject
was completed at the end of 1998 and started trial production in 1999 with a delay of about 18 months. In
1999, this division of TCMC was restructured and formed into a new share-holding company, viz. China
Construction Intemational Development Co. Ltd. (CCID), 95 percent of which is owned by China
International Construction Group Corporation (CICGC). CICGC has international operations and a very
sound financial position. Its majority ownership of the subproject will help expand operations and mobilize
the funds as needed. The "enterprise" mentioned in the following description refers to CCID.
The estimated total project cost was $24.32 million equivalent (including the working capital of $1.60
million), and the actual cost is $25.74 million. The locally sourced funds actually did not finanice working
capital ($1.60 million), but was used to cover additional local capital cost (the increase in commitmenlt fee
and interest expenditure due to the extension of the construction period). A savings of $1.05 million was
realized in foreign currency costs due to a devaluation in the European currencies for imported equipment.
This saving was re-applied, with the World Bank approval, to finance the imported inputs as part of
permanent working capital.
The actual capacity utilization of this subproject was only about 25 percent in 1999, but in 2000, the
company was operating satisfactorily. The company has two main products: graders and wheel loaders-
both widely needed in the infrastructure constru.ction projects. The graders, used in highway construction,
are CCID's main products, and CCID has maintained a sizable domestic market share of about 70 percent
After the restructuring, CCID is mainly producing medium-and large-sized graders, with high value added.
At present, the production of wheel loaders is very low, representing less than 5 percent of CCID's total
sales. The engineering construction machinery division had traditionally placed its main emphasis on the
production of graders, since they had good market prospects, while development of wheel loaders have been
neglected. Old wheel loaders are not competitive, and the new wheel loaders, based on Liberrhe technology
are still tunder trial run and are expensive. CCID has noted the problem of over-relying on graders, and
starting in 2005 it intends to re-adjust its product mix by increasing the share of wheel loaders from 5
percent to 33 percent of total sales. It is also planning to develop new products and improve efficiency by
speeding up the local manufacturing components of new wheel loaders, based on Liberrhe technology, and
renovate the existing wheel loaders to lower costs.
CCID's sales increased significantly in 1999 over 1998, due to higher market demand and production of
more medium and large size graders. Its profits increased substantially in 1999 after restructuring, mainly
the separation of the non-operational assets and the reduction of staff from 2,900 to 1,256.
- 10 -



Operation
Year                          1998           1999       2000 (target)
(whole plant)    (CCID)        (CCID)
Production (set) Grader & wheel loader            634            704            750
Sale (Yuan million)                               220            293            317
Average unit price (Yuan million)                 0.347          0.416         0.422
Profit after tax (Yuan million)                   0.78           27.12         28.58
The financial 1999 data of CCID is not comparable to estimates prepared for the whole TCMC at
appraisal because the enterprise changed its legal status and became a new share-holding company. In 1999
CCID's financial position was satisfactory, as reflected by the current ratio of 1.3: 1, the long-tenn
debt/equity ratio of 63:37, and a debt-service coverage of 1.43. According to CCID, the enterprise may be
approved for listing on the stock market by the end of 2000. If successful it may be able to mobilize
additional funds for the working capital, new product development as well as for the repayment of some of
the current liabilities that were borrowed to finance long-term assets.
It is estimated that the capacity utilization rate of CCID will reach 80 percent in 2002. According to
govermnent policy to support the infrastructure construction and development in the middle and western
regions, a 150,000-kilometer highway is being planned from 2000 to 2010. CCID will likely continue to
hold over 60 percent of domestic market share for its graders; despite several new competitors in the
market. Besides, CCID plans to gradually increase the production of wheel loaders to improve its product
mix and obtain a market niche in this market. The cost and sales price of new wheel loaders based on
Liberrhe technology, will be reduced, by reducing the foreign components. CCID's projected financial
position is satisfactory as shown in Table 2, under Section 10.
Tianin Machine Tool Corporation (TMTC) (subloan A-4. $ 20.14 million) The subloan of $20.14
million has been used for TMTC's two divisions: $9.34 million for the metal cutting division and $10.80
million for the hydraulic press division. This was a reduction of $7.0 million from the original estimate of
$27.14 of the actual foreign cost, $3.07 million was used as working capital, with an increase of $1.87
million, to finance the key import components. The subproject was placed into commercial production in
1999, with a delay of about one year. The delay was again mainly attributed to the import tariff issue. The
total cost of the TMTC subproject was $33.93 million equivalent, compared to the original estimate of
$41.95 million equivalent. The savings were realized because: (i) cancellation of procurement of some
import and auxiliary equipment; (ii) better utilization of existing machines; and (iii) more subcontracting.
The actual capacity utilization of TMTC was about 40 percent in 1999, compared to the appraisal estimate
of 70 percent. The main reason for the lower utilization rate is the lack of orders due to a substantial
market change since appraisal. In particular, the market for CNC machining centers and gear shaping
machines of the metal cutting division seriously shrank since 1996. The auto industry was the main client
of the subproject at appraisal (1992-1994). Since 1995, the auto industry has been streamlined with a
smaller number of manufacturers. At the same time, TMTC has faced more competition from imports as
well as other producers of CNC machining centers in non-state owned enterprises. In addition, the
economic transition environment and the delays experienced in project implementation also contributed to
TMTC's difficulties. Thus, production, sales and exports have all declined, compared with those estimated
at appraisal. The actual FRR, 4.31 percent, is much lower than the 15 percent projected originally, and was
well below the minimum requirement of 12 percent. The actual ERR at 12.10 percent is also lower than the
40 percent estimate, but still just above the minimum requirement of 12 percent.
TMTC has suffered losses since 1996. By the end of 1999, accumulated losses were about Y40.07 million.
- 11 -



TMTC has made efforts to reduce the loss year by year, mainly through labor reduction, earlier labor
retirement, and paying more attention to controlling costs internally. TMTC's loss in 1999 was Y8.6
million compared to Y12.32 million in 1998. TMTC plans to reduce further the loss to Y4 million in 2000,
Y2 million in 2001, and then, turn around completely by 2002. Efforts by the government, since late 1999,
to stimulate the domestic demand, has increased GDP by 8.2 percent in the first lhalf of 2000. The
government has also provided a special loan of Y200 billion for key technology renovation projects. It will
bring more demand for the machine tool industry, and the machinery industry has also started to resume its
growth this year. Meanwhile, the World Bank financed subprojects have greatly upgraded TMTC's
capability to develop and produce high value-added products, diversify the product mix, and increase
subcontracting operations. Thus, the sale of TMTC increased by 51.9 percent during January to July,
2000, compared with the same period in 1999, and the loss was only about 30 percent of that during
January to July, 1999.
Operation
Year                                           1998       1999            2000            2000
(Actual)  (Actual)    (Jan-July, actual)    (target)
Production (unit)             Metal cutting     36         23              24
Production (unit)             Hydraulic Press    274      256             400              400
Sale (Yuan million)                           122.69     120.89          88.75            183.15
Of which: processing for the clients           45.88     59.91           36.00            60.27
(Yuan million)                                        I          I                    I
Profit after tax (Yuan million)               -12.31     -8.64            -2.53           -4.00
TMTC's financial position was weaker than estimated, considering the low current ratio and the higher
total long-term debt/equity. The actual current ratio was 0.8: 1, lower than the estimated 1.07: 1, mainly
because TMTC had continuous losses since 1996. The actual long-tenn debt/equity ratio in 1999 was
68:32, approximately the same level as at appraisal. But its actual total debt equity ratio was excessively
high, at 88:12. The actual debt-service coverage ratio was only 0.24, compared to the original estimate of
1.98.
Because of the overall growth of the domestic economy, many industries are gradually recovering and mnore
m-arket opportunities are opening up for high precision CNC machines and other machine tools. Besides,
the adjustment of TMTC's product mix supported by the subproject, the enterprise is improving its
competitiveness and operational status. TMTC can now produce larger and more specialized equipment
with CNC control, as well as high precision production lines. For instance, TMTC has successfully sold its
high precision CNC machine to an automobile JV manufacturing company in Shanghai. TMTC's product
quality is high, ensured by its first ranking import equipment in the sector. The marketing functions are
also being strengthened. Following the recommendations of an intemational machine tool specialist, the two
divisions and TMTC have taken initial remedial actions. The divisions have set up an exhibition area in the
workshop to demnonstrate to potential clients the technical features of the sample machines. The redesigned
product literature was widely distributed at the 99'Beijing International Machine Tools Exhibition. New
products, with more auxiliary functions are being developed, with cooperation from local universities. The
management has taken the initiative to visit clients, and the distribution network and after sales services are
being expanded for further market development. The divisions have also taken actions to reduce
substantially the inventory of finished goods. The out-sourcing, production with specialization, and
subcontracting have been strengthened. Both divisions have taken measures to control costs and further
reduce the staff.
According to projections (Section 10), the project will start making profits by 2002 and reach frill capacity
- 12-



by 2003. However, its current ratio will remain quite low with only a marginal improvement over the next
five years. TMTC has significant current liabilities, including large payables and short-tenn borrowings.
The situation could be improved under some appropriate financial restructuring in order to reduce its heavy
debt burden and interest cost.
Environmental Aspects. All feasibility studies for the subproject were reviewed and approved by the
Tianjin Environmental Protection Bureau (TEPB). It ensured that all subprojects complied with the
Chinese environmental regulations and pollution control standards. Furthermnore, the PFIs' appraisal
reports on subprojects outlined the measures to be taken for pollution control and equipment to be procured
for this purpose. Before approval of subprojects, the Bank staff reviewed the information to ensure that
environmental standards were being complied with. During project supervision, the Bank staff also checked
that the necessary equipment was installed and operational.
Overall, marketing is of critical importance to all the subprojects at this stage. Management teams should
be organized around marketing executives/experts who would play a lead role in directing all other
corporate activities for supporting market promotion. Aggressive and concerted efforts are needed for sales
promotion. Market development, based on market research, also needs to be given high priority. For this
purpose, the enterprises need to hire highly capable marketing professionals to further train existing staff
and to give them important roles and recognition.
Strengthening of Institutional Infrastructure. Each new corporation, which is a beneficiary of the Bank
loan, has established a technical center for R&D work under the TA component. Most of the procured
equipment ($4.63 million) has been utilized for training seven technical staff of the three centers. Technical
centers have greatly upgraded their capability for technology and informnation support, and helped improve
management functions, including strategic planning. The procured CAD/CAM/CAE system is in operation.
It has substantially shortened the design period, and improved design efficiency and accuracy. About 85
percent of the product design drawings have been computerized. As a result, only ten-staff working days
are now required to complete the work that usually would have required 250-staff working days. The
technical centers have accelerated new product development, improved testing of new products, and, thus
have improved the competitiveness of enterprises.
The TA component included $300,000 for strengthening the vocational training institutes in the project's
subsectors. This component was canceled at the request of TMG because the concemed government
departments decided to use their own budgetary funds. Similarly, a $300,000 TA component for
strengthening the organizational framework for labor redeployment was canceled because of alternate
funding. Moreover, the central govermment, under the recommendation of other consultants decided to
introduce a standard system of labor re-training and redeployment throughout China.
Organizational Restructuring and Improvement of Internal Enterprise Management and Systems.
Services of international consultants were used under the TA component ($1.98 million) for project
implementation focusing on organizational restructuring, production consolidation, management
information systems, financial and cost accounting, and industrial engineering and operational
effectiveness. Their work was carried out in two phases and they also provided on-the-job training to the
management and staff of corporations in various aspects of operations. In addition, managers and staff of
the enterprises were trained, albeit with delay, under the TA component ($0.14 million). Three training
prograins involving 90 participants were organized in the areas of marketing, human resource management,
and financial management. In addition, 20 managers were sent abroad for training. The training was
conducted in the areas of finance and investment, marketing, human resource management, and financial
management. The amount spent on training was less than originally budgeted because of the fewer
- 13 -



subsectors and training was provided by machinery suppliers and consultants at no extra cost.
Diversification and Strengthening of Financial Intermediation Process. The project envisaged a limited
contribution to diversify and strengthen financial intermediation. Unlike in earlier operations, it identified
three instead of just one PFI to onlend the Bank loan proceeds. The project also specified strict financing
criteria to be followed by PFIs, including minimum of ERR and FRR of 12 percent, environmental
standards satisfactory to the Bank, satisfactory projected financial position of subboiTowers, and a
minimiun interest spread of 1.2 percent on Bank loan. Agreements were also reached on prudent policy
statements of PFIs, their minimum debt/equity ratios, and staff training programs. PFIs followed the
lending criteria and met other loan conditions. However, ICBC's debt/equity ratio reached 17.3:1 in 1997,
much higher than the agreed limit of 10:1. In 1998, ICBC was able to reduce the ratio to within the agreed
limit.
In addition to their own regular training programs, PFIs also provided training to their management and
staff under the Bank's TA ($200,000). The Hong Kong Institute of Bankers conducted the first domestic
training program from April 21 to May 23, 1997, in credit risk analysis, followed by a second program
from October 13 to November 4, 1997, in project appraisal and marketing. The programs were held in
Tianjin and 30 trainees from ICBC and BOCOM participated in each of the programs. As regards the
foreign training, BOCOM staff (eight) was trained in 1995, and ICBC staff (four) went for a 3-week
training to Hong Kong and Singapore in November 1997. ICBC sent four more staff for training abroad,
in May 1999. In total, 76 staff from PFIs attended the overseas and domestic training.
It is recognized that above measures had only a limited impact on PFIs who continue to suffer from a
number of systemic problems. Regulation and supervision of the financial system needs considerable
strengthening as do the accounting and legal frameworks. There is a need for greater competition among
banks. Interest rates are to be further liberalized and should reflect the risk factor. Banks need to follow
international practices of portfolio quality assessment and apply prudent and conservative policies for
reserves and provisions. Banks also need to develop further their capability for project appraisal and risk
analysis. The government has initiated a number of reforms in the financial sector, including the
establishment of Asset Management Companies (AMCs), establishment of a supervisory board for the four
central-government owned banks, preparation for interest rate deregulation, risk-based loan classification
pilot program, improved accounting and disclosure standards, efforts to integrate the segmented
govermnent bond market, and increased number of foreign financial institutions receiving license for
banking, brokerage and insurance businesses. Reforms of the financial system have, however, a long way
to go.
4.2 Outputs bY components.
As stated in the earlier section, the project had three main components: sectoral and enterprise refonns,
financial assistance for the restructuring of enterprises through PFIs, and technical assistance for
institutional development and project implementation. Tianjin carried out the sectoral and enterprise
reforms at the time of project preparation as agreed and made further advances in line with the national
reform agenda in later years. The technical assistance was also satisfactorily implemented, though certain
components were behind schedule. Two small components of TA--strengthening of training centers and
labor redeployment framework--were financed from alternate sources. The main thrust of the project anld
the Bank loan was the restructuring of enterprises in project subsectors with the basic objective of making
them more efficient, competitive, financially viable and profitable. This objective has not been achieved
fully as the performance of beneficiary enterprises has been mixed. Prospects for the drive train subproject
- 14 -



of the Tianjin Auto Parts Company (TAPC) and the engineering construction machinery subproject of the
original Tianjin Construction Machinery Company (TCMC) are good and they are already making profits.
The hydraulic press division and the metal cutting division of the Tianjin Machine Tool Company (TMTC)
are incurring losses. The losses are declining and the management of TMTC expects the two divisions to
break-even by 2002, and subsequently earn profits.
The diesel engine subproject of TCMC received the largest subloan of $44.5 million but has serious
marketing problems and some teething technical problems. The foreign partner (also the technology
provider) wants to move out of the project, reduce its equity share, or have only a technology transfer
agreement. Furthermore, diesel engines will not meet the new Chinese emission standards that will become
effective on January 1, 2001, and TCMC does not yet have firm plans to make its engines in compliance
with the new requirement. However, TCMC has initiated some measures in this regard. To solve this
problem, TCMC: (a) has recently obtained commitment from Perkins to supply parts and technologies for
reaching EURO 1 emission standard by 2001, when the newly adopted environmental requirements
governing highway vehicle emission become applicable in China; and (b) is setting up joint venture with
local professional institutions to research new technology for reaching EURO 1 emission standards.
Output/impact indicators for the project had estimated that, by 2000, all subprojects will achieve a
minimum capacity utilization of 80 percent, and ERRs and FRRs of at least 12 percent. Furthermore, all
beneficiary enterprises will achieve a debt-service coverage of at least 1.5 times, a current ratio of at least
1.5:1 and a long-term debt/equity ratio no higher than 70:30. Even with a delay of one year in project
implementation, TCMC and TMTC and their subprojects will not be able to meet the above targets by
2001. While TMTC may meet the above targets substantially by 2003, its future need with respect to the
diesel engine subproject is uncertain. A number of serious problems need to be overcome that may require
more time. Also, both subborrowers will need financial restructuring to reduce their long-term debt burden.
In view of the above, the output of enterprise restructuring component, as well as that of the whole project,
is deemed unsatisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of retzurn:
NPV does not apply to a line of credit project. PFIs had, however, calculated ERRs for subprojects at the
time of subloan approval. The original ERR, and revised ERR prepared by PFIs at subproject completion
based on final cost and revenue streams are given in the following table. It may be pointed out that the
Bank staff considers the revised estimates for A-3 as optimistic given the assumptions used for sales and
capacity utilization.
No. of Subproject            Original ERR           Revised ERR
TAPC-A-1                        29.5%                  15.8%
TCMC-A-3                         22.6%                  9.4%
TMTC-A-4                         40.0%                  12.1%
CCID-A-5                         30.1%                 15.3%
- 15-



4.4 Financial rate of return:
The table below compares the originally estimated financial rates of return of each subproject with the
actual. In all cases the revised FRR was below estimates and in two cases below the minimum threshold.
No. of Subproject                   Original FRR            Revised FRR
TAPC-A-1                                15.7%                   13.4%
TCMC-A-3                               18.9%                    7.0%
TMTC-A-4                               15.0%                    4.3%
CCID-A-5                               13.0%                    12.9%
4.5 Institutional dtevelopnment impact:
As explained in Section 4. 1, the project had a positive institutional development impact on subsectoral
corporations and PFIs. Furthermore, local consultants worked with international consultants, providing
them with the opportunity to acquire global knowledge for preparing sectoral development strategies,
project development and planning, and project implementation.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
While the subprojects financed under the Bank loan had been carefully studied and selected, the Tianjin
govermnent and PFIs had little control on subsequent developments in the demand and supplv of products
that made two out of four subprojects run into operational problems and losses. The central government
has delegated investment decisions to local governments that play an important role in the development of
industry. In the past, these local governments have shown sometimes a tendency to expand their industrial
base without considerations of comparative advantage, economy of scale, appropriateness of teclnology,
quality of production, market justification, and, most importantly, the profitability of projects. Investment
decisions are often taken to generate economic activity, to create employment, and to lay claims on loans
from state-owned banks. Very often these loans are not serviced on time or not ser-iced at all, particularly
if the enterprise has liquidity constraints.
During project implementation, the central government imposed import duties on machinery imported under
the Bank loan. Enterprises had not planned for this expenditure and, as a result, could not release the
machinery from Customs. Finally, the government withdrew the duty but it caused a delay in
implementation of 6-18 months. Also, the time limit for performance guarantees by foreign machinery
suppliers lapsed in certain cases. This development was outside the control of the Tianjin government and
PFls.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The central goverunent could expedite refonns in the industrial and financial sectors, particularly with
focus on privatization of industry and full autonomy and accountability of financial institutions and their
compliance with international standards of soundness and transparency, including assessment and
classification of portfolio, write off of bad debts, and provisions for bad and doubtful loans. The central
government has moved gradually and cautiously in the reform process due to inadequate regulatory and
- 16 -



supervisory framework and negative social implications of large-scale privatization. The government,
however, did inject Y85 billion in the equity of ICBC to enhance its financial soundness and to comply with
Bank loan conditions.
5.3 Factors generally subject to inmplementing agencv control:
PFIs had a critical role in selecting, appraising, and approving subloans and, subsequently. supervising
their implementation. They lacked internal staff capability in this area but received substantial inputs from
the consultants engaged to prepare and supervise subprojects. Nevertheless, PFIs still need to strengthen
their staff capability to appraise projects, to assess credit risk on long-tenn investments, and to supervise
projects effectively.
The training of enterprise management and staff was substantially delayed. The Tianjin govenmment should
have put pressure on enterprises to implement this TA component in a timely manner.
The Tianjin World Bank Loan Office (TWBLO) weakened because the government cut its budget and
reduced staff strength. As a result, TWBLO's effectiveness in its dialogue with other govelrment
departments and enterprises was equally diminished.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The cost and financing estimates prepared at the time of project appraisal were only indicative,
because the loan was going to be used mainly for onlending by PFIs and they were going to
estimate the cost for each subproject at the time of their approval of subloan. The actual cost of
subprojects was not significantly different from estimates prepared by PFIs. There were savings in
the TA component mainly due to cancellation of a proposed Surface Mounted Technology (SMT)
Center that was included in the technical center for the electronic component subsector. A
comparison of the estimated cost and financing is summarized in the following table below (details
in Annex 2):
Estimated and Actual Cost and Financing of TIDP
(US$ million)
Original Estimate              Actual Cost/Financing       Percentage
Change
Local   Foreign Cost   Total    Local Cost   Forcign    Total
Cost                  Cost                   Cost      Cost
Cost:
Investment Comp.          48.30      120.29     168.60      52.92       98.12     151.04       -10.4
Subtotal for TA Comp.     0.97       15.50       16.47      0.72         6.91      7.63        -53.8
Unallocated loan                     14.21      14.21
Total Cost                49.27      150.00      199.27     53.64       105.03    158.67       -20.4
Financing
World Bank Loan                      150.00     150.00                  105.03    105.03       -30.0
Local Bank Loans          42.51       0.00      42.51       41.85        0.00     41.85        -1.6
Enterprise Finance        6.76        0.00       6.76       11.79        0.00      1  .79      74.4
Total Financing           49.27      150.00     199.27      53.64       105.03    158.67       -20.4
TMTC reduced the size of its subproject (A-4) because of market reasons and, thus had a total cost saving
of 19 percent. The electronic component subproject (A-2) was canceled because the foreign partner
- 17 -



withdrew. The cost of remaining three subprojects were all within a plus or minus of 4 percent. The
difference in incremental working capital was small in total value (-$2.54 million) but high in percentage
terms (36 percent). This is because the diesel engine subproject will be leased to JV, and tihs the estimated
working capital of $2.4 million will not be financed by TCMC. The TA component realized a saving of S
8.59 million, mainly because of the fewer subsectors included in the project.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project achieved its objectives of policy and enterprise reforms, strengthening of institutional
infrastructure, organizational restructuring and improvement of intemal enterprise management and
systems, and strengthening of financial intermediation process. The Chinese govermnent is committed to
gradual reforms in industrial and financial sectors and has taken new initiatives to minimize losses of SOEs
and initiate selective privatization or closure. The banks are also being allowed more autonomy and given
responsibility for their investment decisions. The Tianjin government will continue to follow the new refonn
initiatives of the central government.
Modernization and restructuring of subsectoral enterprises had mixed results but it is possible that the two
loss-making enterprises would turn around over time, the diesel engine project of which would probably
take the longest time--up to three years or more. It can be concluded that the project has reasonable
probability of maintaining the benefits and/or expected to generate benefits over its economic life.
Consequently, the project's sustainability rating is "likely".
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The main transitional arrangements to regular operations relate to: the diesel engine division of TCMC
(Subproject A-3); and the hydraulic press division and metal cutting division of TMTC (Subproject A-4)
umder the restructuring of enterprises. As mentioned in Section 3.5 above, some of the problems of these
enterprises are inherent in the environment in which SOEs operate, and privatization or private
participation are the only long-term solutions. However, a few common measures are needed before the
enterprises can be attractive to private investors. These include:
*     Market development. Marketing is the main problem of TCMC and TMTC. Marketing functions
(including organization, staffing, distribution channels, market research, pricing policy, marketing strategy,
sales promotion, advertisement campaigns, after-sale service, etc.) have not been given adequate attention.
Trading companies have traditionally marketed products, leaving enterprises to focus principally on
meeting production levels. But the business enviromnient in China has changed and enterprises now have to
compete. The management, however, still remains production-oriented, and seeks govenmment's help to
resolve its marketing problems rather than focus on strengthening its marketing functions. Both TMTC and
TCMC will have to give more importance to marketing and provide training in order for management and
staff to adopt modem marketing techniques.
*      Financial restructuring. Both TCMC and TMTC are under-capitalized and highly leveraged and
need financial restructuring. Total debt needs to be reduced significantly through either debt-to-equity
swaps or through write-offs. TMTC is currently planning a debt swap but the details are not clear.
*      Working capital management. The two enterprises should have adequate pennanent working
- 18 -



capital to finance ongoing operations. In times of temporary working capital shortages, the enterprises
should be able to access short-term bank borrowings to meet their needs. At the same time, enterprises
should improve their working capital management. A number of SOEs in China continue to mismanage
working capital by building up huge inventories and continuing production despite slowdowns in demand.
Moreover, the two enterprises need to take specific actions in various areas as summarized in the
Attachment, section 10. Details of these recommendations are available in the consultants' reports hired by
the Bank in 1999/2000.
Future Monitoring of the Project
In the future, the project should be reviewed in terms of the performnance of each subproject financed under
the Loan, specifically looking at the performance indicators for the project, including capacity utilization,
sales, debt-servicing, current ratio and debt-equity ratio. Future reforms in industrial and financial sectors
would be monitored in the context with the Bank's economic and sector work.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in project identification, preparation assistance, and appraisal was satisfactory. The
project supported policy and enterprise reforms to which the government was committed. The institutional
development agenda and the support to restructure the sectoral enterprises were also appropriate and
justified. The project was consistent with the government's own development strategy/priorities for SOE
refonn and industrial modernization and with the Bank's assistance strategy for China.
The Bank financed consultants to assist in project preparation. The consultants' work was divided in two
phases: Phase I established Tianjin's comparative advantage in selected sub-sectors and proposed strategies
and development programs. Phase II provided implementation plans at the municipal, subsectoral and
enterprise levels for these strategies and programs. While this appeared to be a satisfactory arrangement,
some problems did arise. First, Tianjin and Phase I consultants could not reach an agreement on the scope
of Phase II work. As such, new consultants had to be recruited for Phase II thus delaying project
preparation. Also, international consultants, in general, showed limited interest in Phase II. Second,
because the consultants could be recruited on a sole source basis for the Phase II implementation, their
objectivity for the upstream Phase I work may be in question.
The Bank appraisal of the project did not benefit from lessons of earlier industrial projects in China
because these projects were completed after the approval of TIDP. The earlier projects showed that SOEs
faced similar problems because of weaknesses, marketing.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision performance was satisfactory, but could have been better. Normally, supervision missions
visited the project twice a year and had continuity in staffing. But, the technical staff had few site visits
even though they did visit the machine tools and diesel engine subprojects when problems became serious.
In retrospect, the experts should have anticipated that problems would grow and visit these subprojects
earlier. But this more intense supervision effort would have required additional resources. Some assistance
was however provided by Bank staff. An example is the effort of Bank staff to get import duties on
imported equipment waived. The staff also persuaded government to increase equity of ICBC, thus,
- 19-



strengthening its financial soundness and complying with the loan covenant. On the other hand, Bank staff
should have taken more definitive and persuasive action to convince enterprises to recruit marketing experts
and managers.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank overall performance is considered marginally satisfactory despite comprehensive preparation,
adequate appraisal, and active supervision. The main weaknesses in the Bank's approach were: (a)
underestimating the difficulties in changing the management culture in SOEs (in spite of continued
reforms); (b) continued financing of industrial restructuing projects in China without waiting for the
results of earlier projects approved; and (c) not providing sufficient resources on the technical and
marketing aspects during project implementation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Tianjin government was fully committed to the project. It appointed a team of senior officials to
coordinate its preparation and borrowed a $2 million IDA credit to hire intemational consultants. Local
consultants and counterpart staff worked with international consultants. A project management office,
established originally for TLIP, continued to function and was initially staffed with senior staff. However,
project preparation was deficient because the concemed government bureaus did not have a good grasp of
the market for various products to be manufactured under the project.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Tianjin government carried out the agreed enterprise reforms and has continued to advance the refonn
process in line with central government policies. It also met its obligations under the Project Agreement.
The government was also responsible for implementing the TA component. This was accomplished
satisfactorily despite delays in several activities. The project office, established by the govermnent, was
scaled down for budget reasons and became less effective in latter part of project implementation.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Two PFIs-ICBC and BOCOM-were responsible for implementing the line of credit. This required
identification, appraisal and supervision of subprojects. ICBC was already utilizing a credit line of $100
million from ADB together with a TA component for institution-building. BOCOM had also gained
experience in project finance. Both PFIs had adopted conservative criteria for long-tenn lending. During
project implementation, the two banks made concerted efforts to obtain required information from
beneficiary enterprises and consultants and to perform a satisfactory appraisal of subprojects.
Nevertheless, they lacked experience in project appraisal and supervision and this reflected, to some extent,
on the quality of their appraisal work. The supervision activities of the two banks were basically confined
to managing disbursements. The financial perfornance of sub-borrowers should have been monitored more
closely. In addition, the staff lacked experience in identifying problems early and following through with
corrective measures. For example, more pressure should have been placed on improving the marketing
functions at the enterprises by recruiting senior level managers with authority. For these reasons, PFIs'
performance is therefore deemed only as marginally satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance (Tianjin government and PFIs) is marginally satisfactory because of delays
- 20 -



in completing TA activities on the part of Tianjin government. Moreover, subproject appraisal and
supervision by PFIs were also weak.
8. Lessons Learned
Key lessons learned from the project are as follows:
(a) While extensive enterprise reforms have been introduced in China and there is increasing emphasis
on market-orientation, the actual performance of a large number of SOEs remains unsatisfactory.
The main reason for this dismal performance is the enterprise culture that still suffers from the
legacy of earlier government-controlled operations. SOE managers are reluctant to take decisions
on their own and still look to the government to support either their success or to be bailed out in
case of financial problems. The government, particularly at the local level, is involved in all critical
decisions despite the supposed autonomy granted to SOE managers. Consequently, separation of
ownership from management is weak and blurred despite the establishment of share-holding
companies. Accountability of management is not very meaningful when, on one hand, they cannot
take many cost-cutting or revenue-maximizing decisions and, on the other, have little to lose in case
of poor performance. Under these constraints, investment in SOEs is highly risky.
(b) Another legacy of earlier government-controlled operations is SOEs' focus on "production" rather
than on "market". In the first place, mnarket information for the whole country is poor or not
available. There are few reliable sources of secondary data and information-past and future-on
capacity, production, import, export, prices, etc. At the same time, there are serious difficulties
and, sometimes, restraints for accessing primary sources of information. It is, therefore, very
difficult to make reliable estimates of market viability of a new project or to assess a project
feasibility. During the operational phase of a project, the management concentrates on production
and, even in the absence of adequate sales, keeps producing and building up huge inventories of
finished goods. This needlessly uses up all the liquid funds and creates working capital problems.
Production is also maintained to keep the work force employed. On the other hand, enterprises lack
trained and experienced managers and marketing and sales promotion staff. Market research is not
given sufficient importance in the overall management process. This is another high risk factor
which could be mitigated by developing market research institutes to help prepare feasibility
studies and by assigning importance (backed by adequate budget) to bringing in within the
enterprises good marketing managers and staff.
(c) A large number of financial institutions in Bank borrowing countries are not well-experienced in
selecting long-term creditworthy borrowers through project appraisal. Banks instead are often
influenced by governments and large conglomerates. Banks need to train their staff in project
finance and analysis of credit risk. At the same time, the bank management should make and be
accountable for its investment decisions.
(d) Some of the borrowing enterprises had poor financial positions when their subloans were approved.
Their own financial contribution to the project cost was also very small, thus creating incentive
issues. It was expected that all the enterprises would be able to turn themselves around and
improve their financial situation after completing the restructuring project. In the future, banks
should not finance subprojects sponsored by financially weak enterprises. Furthermore,
sub-borrowers should be required to finance a reasonable cost of their project (say about 30
percent) from internally generated funds and/or fresh equity in cash form. At the same time, there
- 21 -



should be a maximum subloan limit in every LOC to diversify investment, spread risks, and
mobilize new investment.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borroiier/inplementing agency:
Given below is the Borrower's evaluation report of project implementation prepared by the Tianjin World
Bank Loan Office.
Completion Report for Tianjin Industry Development Project
A. Summary
Tianjin Industry Development project (the project) started preparation in April 1988. Following
identification, preparation, appraisal and negotiations with the World Bank (the Bank) loan agreement was
signed on June 2, 1994. The project became effective on November 20, 1994.
The project (originally) consisted of the following components: investment subprojects in the five industries
of machine tools, engineering machinery, auto parts, electric motors and electronic components; four
technology centers and two vocational training institutes; provision of consulting services for the project
implementation and redeployment of laid-off workers; and provision of training for senior managers of the
enterprises and financial intermediaries. The project was designed to make use of $150 million of the
Bank's loan and RMB 404 million of counterpart fund. In November, 1995, the subproject of electronic
elements was cancelled with the Bank's approval as a result ofjoint venture with Japanese company
National. The funds needed in the project were therefore reduced to $134 million of the Bank's loan. The
project is completed with disbursed Bank's loan of $105 million equivalent and counterpart fund of RMB
446 million.
B. Project Objectives
1. Accelerating industrial policy reforms and enterprise reforms in the selected industries
II. Materializing modernization reforms of enterprises in the selected industries in accordance with the
criteria of economic and financial viability.
111. Strengthening institutional capability, preparing development strategy program, implementing
institutional and system development, providing engineering design and technical services; developing
human resources and re-employing labors;
IV. Assessing organizational structure and improving internal-management and system of the enterprises;
and
V. Strengthening capacity of the financial intermediaries and diversifying services to be provided by them.
C. Evaluating the achievement of the project objectives
1. Achievement of reform objectives
1. As required by the Bank's SAR and Municipal Government's development strategy for mechanical and
electronic industry, three corporations limited in the three industries of machine tools, engineering
machinery and electronic elements were incorporated in succession in 1994. The three corporations are
Tianjin Machine Tools Co. Ltd., Tianjin Engineering Machinery Co. Ltd. and Auto Drive Train Co. Ltd.
- 22 -



The said three corporations were selected to implement, as end-borrowers of the Bank's loan, the industrial
reform project.
2. Adjustments in product mix of the industries has been made as required by the development strategy. In
the industries of machine tools and engineering machinery, the following were identified as principal
products to be developed: geared machine tool, machining center, bulldozer, leveling machines, loader and
forklift. Products of low technical level and weak economic viability have been eliminated. Along with the
development of Tianjin automobile industry (production of Xiali cars increased from 30,000 to 150,000),
gear system sub-project, by making use of the Bank's loan and domestic funds, has conducted technical
reforms and therefore increased production scale, upgraded product quality and technology level. Other of
the thirteen sub-industries under the auto part industry have also conducted technical refonns, enlarged
production scale, upgraded product quality and raised technology level. Products with technical and
economic disadvantages have been eliminated.
3. At the present time, products in mechanical and electronic industry are priced on the bases of market
situation, and the government no longer sets lirnits for product price.
4. According to the development strategy, 10,000 redundant workers would have been laid off from five
industries. However, streamlining was carried out only in following three industries and sub-industry:
machine tools, engineering machinery and auto drive train. By the end of 1999, 6,500 redundant employees
had been laid off from machine tools industry, while number of employees in auto drive train sub-industry
had increased from 1,900 before reform to 2,000 after the reform. This increase was due to the expansion
of production of auto drive train from 30,000 set/year to 180,000 set/year.
- 23 -



II. Evaluation on the part A of the project
1. Machine Tools Co. Ltd.
The project of Tianjin Machine Tools Co. Ltd. began in 1994 and completed on the whole in December
1998. Main components of the sub-project are technical reform in metal cutting and hydraulic press
divisions. Objectives of technical reforns have in general been achieved. Thus have been resolved the
problems of out-dated large precise processing equipment, less advanced techniques, low precision of
products, and lack in workplace.
By making use of the Bank's loan, the metal cutting division has introduced large and high- precision
horizontal metal cutting machine tools, and improved overall precision of machine tools. The introduction
of the equipment aimed to improve horizontal processing precision of large parts and control of chemical
composition in heat-treatment technique. Most of the introduced equipment are CNC, which indicates that
overall mechanical processing capacity and manufacturing level of Tianjin machine tool industi-y has
reached advanced positions in the world.
Hydraulic Press Division, by importing world-advanced equipment such as German large vertical
machining center and Italian horizontal machining center, has raised its machine tools to the world
advanced level of the nineties, which enables it to take the leading position in hydraulic press industry. The
enterprise can now satisfy to certain extent the demands of market by manufacturing large, precise,
computer- numerical-controlled and specialized hydraulic press products. Its designing and working
capacity has reached the level of the nineties and is in a favorable position in the market. The newly built
heavy metal cutting workshop and sheet welding workshops have basically resolved the problem of lack of
workplaces.
Since 1996, machine tool market has been slack because of shortage of fund, rigorous economic
circumstance and particularly adjustment of government investment structure. Consequently, production of
the enterprise has kept shrinking , and the machine tools corporation failed to attain its production targets.
2. Tianjin Engineering Machinery Co. Ltd.
The sub-project entered investment stage in 1996. Its main components include: technical reforms in
engineering machinery division and diesel engine division. The reforrns, by introducing advanced
technology from Perkins and Libeherr as well as key equipment from abroad, has raised the technical and
equipment level to that of the end of the nineties, and the reform objectives designed by the project has been
generally achieved.
The Engineering Machinery Division, through technical reform, has added 277 sets of new equipment,
among which 51 sets were imported. Its production capability of main engines has increased from 610 in
the base year to 1,500, of which 800 leveling machines and 700 loaders. The enterprise has adopted similar
operating and business approaches to those of foreign famous manufacturers. Its technique design and
manufacturing capability has been largely improved and has almost caught up with current international
level. Introduction of static hydraulic press technology from Libeherr provided the enterprise with strong
technical support in development of loaders and has contributed to the sustainable development of Tianjin
engineering machinery.
The Perkins diesel engine production line invested by the Diesel Engine Division under the project includes:
assembly line, trial run line, finish line, cylinder line, cylinder cap line, crankshaft line, camshaft line and
- 24 -



bearing cap line. An overall test was conducted in June 1999. Trials and tests proved that all of the said
lines could produce parts and diesel engines that meet Perkin's technical standards. All of the lines under
the project have adopted CNC and flexible production technologies; some of the lines have realized
automation, and joint-production of six-cylinder diesel and four-cylinder diesel. Hardware technology has
attained international level of the nineties and hardware technology targets designed by the project have
been attained. This is a breakthrough in our country's diesel manufacturing.
Apart from leveling machine, diesel engine products have not had enough orders as a result of delay in
project construction and market changes. Consequently, the enterprise has operated under capacity, it has
not been able to make profits and therefore failed to attain the expected profit target.
3. Auto Drive Train Co. Ltd.
This sub-project aims to reach economic scale of production, enhance competitiveness of thie enterprise,
explore and occupy both domestic and abroad markets. The sub-project has by and large attained expected
target.
Development strategy program for Tianjin auto part industry was worked out with assistance of
international consulting firm. Priority was put on auto drive train in compliance with the development
strategy. Auto Drive Train Co. Ltd. therefore incorporated, which has made use of $20 million for
hardware buildup and $2.56 million for software development. The latest gear-shaping machine that the
enterprise imported is characterized with CNC and high flexible production technologies and can hold
leading position for quite long time in domestic auto gear manufacturing technique and equipment. The
enterprise is able to make various kinds of products as market requires, and is capable to provide foreign
customers with high quality products. Application of CAD/CAE/CAM will provide, in the coming years, a
more accurate and fast way for product optimum design and technique improvement. It therefore enables
the enterprise to shorten product design cycle and pre-production preparation cycle. It also enables the
enterprise to accelerate its new product development and to make quick analysis of customers' quotations
and techniques.
The reform has not only improved technical level and strengthened working capacity of the Auto Drive
Train Co. Ltd., it has as well upgraded the management level of the company. Since completion of the
sub-project construction, the company has been running good with financial position generally satisfactory.
III. Evaluation of part B of the project
Part B I
1. Technology Center Sub-project
The sub-project of three technology development for Tianjin Machine Tools Co. Ltd., Engineering
Machinery Co. Ltd. and Auto Drive Train Co. Ltd. started its implementation stage in June, 1996 and was
completed in January 2000. The technology center sub-project has played an important role in
strengthening product development capacity, improving management, enhancing competitiveness and
increasing economic returns of the three corporations.
I-1 . Technology Center of the Machine Tools Co. Ltd.
The sub-project started in 1996 and completed in January 2000.
- 25 -



The sub-project puts its emphasize on strengthening the weakness in product development through
procuring urgently needed testers, and software and hardware for computer aided design. One year of
operation approves that the new equipment has contributed a lot the product development by strengthening
the enterprise's capacity for product development, shortening product development cycle and enabling the
enterprise to provide the market with various products.
1-2. Technology Center of the Engineering Machinery Co. Ltd.
The sub-project started in 1996 and completed in January 2000.
Application of CAD and CAM has made product design faster and has optimized product mix. Most of the
designers no longer rely on manual way of design, which largely increases designing efficiency.
Introduction of MIS, CAD and CAM has enabled more technicians to use computer in production
management and technical development. Trial platform has made new product trial more reliable and thus
increased precision and reliability of products.
1-3. Technology Center of the Auto Drive Train Co. Ltd.
The sub-project started in 1996 and completed in December 1999.
Principal purpose of this sub-project is to set up computer aided design system (CAD, CAE and CAM),
computer aided management information system (MIS) and gearbox tester.
Application of CAD, CAE and CAM has realized automation of emulation design, teclnique analysis and
simulation processing. It has largely increase precision and saved a lot of time. Strengthening of the
enterprise's development capacity enables it to develop new products in a faster way and enhances its
coompetitiveness and provides the products with continuity.
Application of computer has greatly facilitated production management and promised quick resolution of
material flow problems. Thanks to the support of the technology center, the enterprise has made great
achievements in new product design and production management.
2. Training Center Sub-project
As Tianjin had strengthened, with its own resources, capacity of its vocational schools in the related
industries, or merged some of the schools and opened them to the society, the municipal government
believed that it had attained the target of training center establishment. The Bank therefore approved, on
June 2, 1998, Tianjin's request for canceling the Bank's loan for this sub-project.
3. Consulting Services in project implementation stage
The consulting services were divided into two parts, which ended in 1994 and 1999 respectively. British
P-E International Consulting Firm was in charge of consulting service provision, and Tianjin municipal
international engineering consulting finn participated the consulting activities as local finn. All of the tasks
under TOR has been performed and consulting services have facilitated project implementation,
particularly in the areas of organization system, marketing, operation projection, production technology,
information system management, product development, technology assignment and adjustment of
production capacity. This has laid a solid foundation for the further development of the enterprise and at
the same time stimulated development of consulting sector in Tianjin.
- 26 -



4. Training for senior managers
The training was co-organized and implemented by the municipal planning commission and finance bureau.
The training institute was German Infrastructure Institute. The training was divided into two parts:
overseas training and domestic training. The former targeted at 20 senior managers of enterprises, while the
latter targeted at 90 middle-level managers of enterprises. Training was provided in the following four
areas: funding and investment, marketing, hurnan resource management and financial managemiient.
5. Consulting for labor re-deployment agencies
This sub-project was cancelled with the Bank's approval on June 2, 1998. According to the consolidated
plan of the Central Government, Tianjin has established, with its own funds, various levels of
re-employment centers, labor markets and labor training institutes. Most of the re-employment centers,
especially those at municipal level had realized computer management, network connection and resource
sharing, and in general satisfied the demand for labor re-training and re-deployment. This had fulfilled all
of the work required by the consulting TOR and largely surpassed what was expected during the project
preparation.
B2. Training for Financial Intermediaries
Overseas Training
Tianjin branch of ICBC sent four persons to Hong Kong and Singapore in November, 1997 for twenty-day
training in disbursement procedures of the Bank's loan and banking credit resettlement, inter-bank
financing, liquidation, working capital management, international settlement and dispute resettlement.
Tianjin branch of ICBC sent four persons to the United States in May, 1999 to receive two-week training
provided by American Bank, The Chase Manhattan Bank in credit management, internal control, project
appraisal, commercial bank operation and management.
Tianjin branch of BOCOM organized in April, 1995 a twenty-day training in France to receive training
provided by Credit Lyonnais and Banque Nationale de Paris.
Domestic Training
From April to November 1997, Tianjin branch of ICBC and BOCOM had organized two-stage training.
Seventy-five persons attended the sixty-three-day training. The training had the following topics: role of
banks in financial system, commercial loans, financial statement analysis, debt security, domestic and
abroad risk analysis, commercial bank marketing, identification and analysis of targeted market, strategic
marketing program, product strategy, pricing strategy, promotion strategy, retail system, hIuman resource
management and bank market trend in the year 2000. Trainers came from Hong Kong Chartered Bank.
ABN Amor Bank, Sumitomo Bank and Hong Kong Bank Association.
Domestic and abroad training has enhanced professional competence of the bank staffs and gained
satisfactory results.
VI. Overall Assessment of Tianjin Industry Development Project
The project has facilitated the overall development of Tianjin machine tools, engineering machinery and
- 27 -



auto parts industries. It has enhanced the capability of the industries in product design and development,
raised manufacturing level, upgraded product quality, enlarged production scale, improved enterprise
management, and laid a solid foundation for the sustainable development of the industries.
However, due to impacts of the Asian financial crisis, both domestic and overseas market have been
changed, and as a result, product export of the industries has been seriously affected. Although domestic
market improved slightly thanks to the government's intemal-demand-expansion policy, demands are still
weak. Apart from auto gearbox and leveling machine, most products such as machine tools and diesel
engines have lacked orders. Enterprises have been running under capacity and therefore failed to attain
profit targets.
D. Problems and factors impeding realization of the project objectives
1. Changes in State tariff policy prolonged the project construction period
Since the State tariff policy at the time of project identification granted tariff exemption for the imported
equipment under the Bank's loan financed projects, cost of tariff was therefore not taken into account when
calculating project investment budget. However, during the project implementation, the State government
promulgated a new policy which stipulated that starting from 1996, imported equipment financed by the
Bank's loans would no longer enjoy tariff exemption. As most of the imported goods were delivered in
1997, acceptance test of the imported equipment was largely delayed. When the problem of tariff was
resolved, project implementation progress had been delayed one year later than project plan.
II. Project preparation was too long to make timely response to the changing product market.
From 1988 when American firm providing consulting services to 1994 when the project loan became
effective, six years had passed and product market had also greatly changed, which no doubt had adverse
impact on the realization of project profit targets.
III. Due to financial crisis, both domestic and overseas markets were slack and product sale and export
were seriously affected. Although domestic market improved slightly thanks to the govermnent's
internal-demand-expansion policy, demands are still weak. Apart from auto gearbox and leveling machine,
most products such as machine tools and diesel engines have lacked orders. Enterprises have been rtnning
under capacity and therefore failed to attain profit targets.
E. Comment on the Bank
Throughout the project implementation, Tianjin has received a lot of support and assistance from the Bank.
Tianjin side is particularly impressed by the Bank's restrict and scientific procedures and sense of
responsibility as well as dedications that the Bank's staff demonstrated. The Bank has also provided the
project implementation with effective services.
F. Comments on the Borrower and Financial Intermediaries
Tianjin Municipal Planning Commission was the administration agency of the project. Municipal Finance
Bureau was both debts representative of the Municipal Government and project implementing entity of part
B 1 of the project. Tianjin branch of ICBC and BOCOM were both on-lending Banks under part A of the
project and implementing entities of part B2 of the project. The said agencies have, throughout the project
implementation, well performed their obligations set forth in the project loan agreement and provided the
- 28 -



project with as many facilities as they could. They were very responsible and restrict in equipment
procurement, proceeds disbursement, and management of special account. Apart from strictly following
related policies and regulations made by the Bank and MOF, they have also, based on the project reality,
worked out roles and regulations to strengthen project management and financial management, and as a
result, guaranteed smooth implementation of the project.
G. Project Operation in the Future and its Development Plan
I. Further normalizing operations of the corporations limited; adjusting and rationalizing corporation
internal structure; providing more training for the managers and improving corporation management.
II. Optimizing capital structure and operating system by capital restructuring; embracing any opportunity
for inter-provincial and international cooperation and joint ventures.
III. Strengthening R & D of new products in accordance with market demands; increasing value added of
the products and enhancing their competitiveness.
VI. Improving production management; rationalizing production plan, production management,
procurement, cost accounting, quality control, financial management, and product sale in order to
improve product quality and increase the profits of the enterprises.
V. Exploring domestic and overseas markets; increasing the number of salespeople and providing more
training for them; and improving post-sale service system.
H. Lessons learned
I. Conducting engineering consulting prior to internal approval on investment projects; identifying
suitable technology for the products with the assistance of consulting firms, available infon-nation and
internet so as to make correct projection for the target market.
II. Feasibility studies of investment projects rnust be integrated with national and regional development
strategies; impacts of the government's policies should be taken into consideration; and in the mean
time, sustainable strategy should be made for the projects.
III. Throughout investment project implementation, it is necessary to establish and timely adjust scientific
and rational operation and management systems. Marketing strategy must be made to explore market.
Project Implementation procedures should be strictly followed. Procedures of intemal administration
and procedures of the Bank should be in harmony.
IV. Counterpart fund must be identified prior to project implementation. Timely and sufficient provision of
counterpart funds should be guaranteed.
V. It is recommended that the Bank streamline its procedures for competitive projects in order to shorten
project cycle, with preparation stage in particular.
(b) Cofinanciers:
- 29 -



Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable
10. Additional Information
Table 1 . Comparison of Projected and Actual Results of Subprojects
Unit: Y
'000
Name of Subprojects            TATC (A-I)            TCMC (A-3)               TMTC (A-4)                CCID (A-5)
Estimate    Actual     Estimate     Actual    Estimate      Actual     Estimate      Actual
Fixed Costs ( $ million)      22.84       23.64       65.67       67.26       39.45       30.86       22.72        24.69
Total cost including net      23.48       24.11       68.07       67.26       41.95       33.93       24.32        25.74
working capital ($ million)
Completion date               Oct-97      Oct-98      Dec-97        *        Mar-97      Dec-98      Dec-97       Dec-98
Data in first year of operations (1)
Capacity utilization (%)      60         60          26           1          70          40          62           25
Cost of Production         107,950      130,280    500,329      30,890     354,320     118,430     184,519     50,711
Sale value                 152,960     186,800     574,200      24,470     435,735     120,890     213,978     75,759
Exports                                                                     46,923       1.500     27,435       5,390
Net profit (loss) before tax    14,690  20,100                  -14,066     33,506       -8,640                 32,163
Debt service coverage ratio   1.54       1.48                    0.29        1.98        0.24                     1.43
Current ratio                1.54        0.88                    0.61        1.07        0.8                       1.3
Debt/Equity ratio            56:44       57:43    _              68:32      68:32       68:32                     53:47
Revised ERR (2)               29.54%      15.81%     22.61%       9.42%       40%        12.10%      30.10%      15.32%
Revised FRR (2)               15.73%      13.41%      18.86%      7.02%        15%        4.31%      18.59%      12.86%
1. *The whole production line of diesel engine subproject has not yet put into normal operation, except for the assembly and
testing line.
2. ERR and FRR are revised based on the actual data in 1999.
3. TCMC was reorganized in 1999, and it can not be compared with that at appraisal.
- 30 -



Table 2. Financial Projections of Subborrowers:
Table 2 -1 Projected Financial Position of TAPC (A-i)
Unit: Y
'000
Item                  2000            2001           2002            2003             2004
Capacity utilization                     60              70              80              85              85
Sales revenue                       365,980         367,000         368,000         370,000         370,000
Sales taxes                          3,250           3,300           3,450           3,600           3,600
Net sales                           362,730         363,700         364,550         366,400         366,400
Cost of production                 261,340         263,800         264,000         266,000         267,000
Gross profit                        101,390          99,900         100,550         100,400          99,400
Sales expenses                         920             940             970           1.000            1,000
Administrative expenses             37,610          37,000          37,000          37,120          37,120
Financial charges                    34,700          32,110          30,900          28,650          25,650
Operating income                     28,160          29,850          31,680          33,630          35,630
Non-operating income (loss)            -160             150             320             370             370
Income before tax                    28,000          30,000          32,000          34,000          36,000
Income tax                           9,240           9,900          10,560          11,220          11,880
Net profit (loss)                     18,760         20,100          21,440          22,780          24,120
Current Assets                      229,330         228,600         218,120         225,560         256,380
Fixed assets                        488,080         425,120         372,940         318,040         264,140
Other assets
Total assets                        717,410         653,720         591,060         543,600          520,520
Current Liabilities                 253,450         223,600         193,520         186,200          194,400
Long-term debt                      318,670         185,290         152,110         122,730          99,460
Other Liabilities                    39,230          22,270          22,270           9,810
Total liabilities                   611,350         431,160         367,900         318,740         293,860
Total equity                        106,060         222,560         223,160         224,860         226,660
Total liabilities and equity        717,410         653,720         591,060         543,600         520.520
Retum on sales                         5.1%            5.5%           5.8%             6.2%            6.5%
Return on equity                        9%              9%             10%             10%              11%
Current ratio                          0.9:1          1.02:1          1.13:1          1.21:1I         1.32:1
Debt/equity ratio                     50:50           45:55           41:59           35:65           30:70
Debt-service coverage ratio            1.61            1.65             1.70            1.86           2.60
- 31 -



Table 2-2a Projected Financial Position of TCMC (A-3)
Unit: Y '000
Item               2000            2001            2002            2003             2004
Sales revenue                   271,600         348,700         420,250         493,400         569,400
Sales tax                        1,216           1,597           1,929           2,457           3,067
Net sales                       270,384         347,103         418,321         490,943         566,333
Cost of production              215,375         265,959         318,727         374,833         429,923
Sales expenses                    9,855          12,785          14,892          16,9991         19,179
Gross profit                     45,154          68,359          84,702          99,111          117,231
Adninistrative expenses          22,601          25,005          27,901          29,6381         31,413
Financial charges                53,067          46,577          40,387          34,197          28,007
Operating income                 -30,514          -3,223         16,414          35,276          57,811
Non-operating income or          -3,035           -3,262         14,507          14,037           10,669
loss
Profit before tax                -33,549          -6,485         30,921          49,313          68,480
Net profit (loss)                -33,549          -6,485         30,921          49,313          68,480
Current Assets                  306,578         346,068         528,916         581,962         659,565
Long-term investment            153,118         153,118         153,218         153,618          154,618
Fixed assets                    727,702         667,336         612,771         558,793         504,058
Other assets                     23,755          21,204          18,943          16,937           15,653
Total assets                   1,211,153       1,187,726       1,313,848       1,311,310       1,333,894
Current Liabilities             420,956         460,473         603,662         594,573         587,706
Long-term debt                  480,286         418,937         357,588         296,239         234,890
Other Liabilities                48,907          53,797          59,177          65,095          71,604
Total liabilities               950,149         933,207        1,020,427        955,907         894,200
Total equity                    261,004         254,519         293,421         355,403         439,694
Total liabilities and equity   1,211,153       1,187,726       1,313,848       1,311,310       1,333.894
Return on sales                 -12.24%          -1.86%           7.36%          9.99%           12.03%
Return on equity                  -22.9           -4.47            21.3            33.9            47.2
Current ratio                     0.73:1          0.75:1          0.88:1          0.98:1          1.12:1
Debt/equity ratio                 78:22           79:21           78:22           73:27           67:33
L-T debt/equity ratio             67:33           65:35           59:41           50:50           41:59
Debt-service coverage ratio        0.69            0.91            1.25              45              68
- 32 -



Table 2-2b  Projected Financial Position of JV * (A-3)
Unit:
Y'OOO
Item             2000        2001        2002        2003       2004        2005        2006
Sales revenue                25,200    200,550     410,025     785,400   1,097,100    I,097.100    1,097,100
Sales tax
Net sales                    25,200     200,550    410,025     785,400    1097,100    1,097,100    1.097,100
Cost of production           39,785     246,104    415,010     685,941     938,316     934,246     929,196
Of which: leasing fee                  76,320      74,400      71,680      68,960     102,080      97,030
Sales expenses               3,600      10,270     19,540      28,370      35,410      35,510      35,510
Gross profit                -18,185     -55,824     -24,525     71,089     123,374     127,344     132,394
Administrative expenses     12,000     27,510      48,620      71,980      96,990      97,430      97,430
Financial charges           1,220       3,670       9,790      14,380      15,000      15,000      15,000
Operating income            -31,405     -87,004     -82,935     -15,271     11,384      14,914      19,964
Income before tax           -31,405     -87,004     -82,935    -15,271      11,384      14,914      19,964
Income tax                      0           0           0           0          0           0           0
Net profit (loss)           -31,405     -87,004     -82,935     -15,271     11,384      14,914      19,964
Current Assets               89,125     104,661     156,057    251,226     305,029     302,363     337,448
Fixed assets                 28,900      26,300     61,200      55,220      49,240      73,260      64,580
Other assets                119,770     113,260     106,750    100,410      93,970      87,530      81,090
Total assets                237,795     244,221    324,007     406,856     448,239     463,153     483,118
Current Liabilities          49,290     142,720    305,440     403,560     433,560     433,560     433,560
Long-term debt                   0           0           0           0           0           0          0
Total liabilities            49,290     142,720    305,440     403,560     433,560     433,560     433,560
Total equity                188,505     101,501      18,567      3,296      14,679      29,593      49,558
Total liabilities and equity  237,795   244,221    324,007     406,856     448,239     463,153     483,118
Return on sales              -125%       -43%        -20%         -2%          1%/1        1%          2%
Return on equity              -17%       -86%       -447%       -463%         78%X,       50%         40%
Current ratio                  1.8:1      0.7:1       0.5:1       0.6:1       0.7:1      0.7:1       0.8:1
Debt/equity ratio             21:79       58:42       94:6        99:1        96:4        94:6       90:10
L-T debt/equity ratio           0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
Debt  rvratio                 -20.1       -20.2       -6.2         0.8         2.6         3.0         3.3
* Note: The equipment and workshop financed under the A-3 subloan and counterpart funding will be leased by TCMC to the
joint venture between TCMC and Perkins, and the JV will pay the leasing fee to TCMC as the compensation for the use of
facilities and the source of subloan repayment.
- 33 -



Table 2-3       Projected Financial Position of TMTC (A-4)
Unit: Y '000
Item                2000            2001            2002            2003             2004
Sales revenue                    183,150         220,000         260,000         300,000          355,000
Sales tax                        12,100          14,760          15,680          17,570           20,790
Net sales                        171,050         205,240         244,320         282,430          334,210
Cost of production                96,650         123,500         153,410          182,550         215,900
Gross profit                      70,820          76,680          85,510          93,170          110,370
Administrative expenses          41,750          41,750          45,760          47,950           55,360
Financial charges               33,070          36,930           33,550          34,220          37,310
Operating income                  -4,000          -2,000           6,200           11,000          17,700
Income before tax                 -4,000          -2,000           6,200           11,000          17,700
Income tax                                                        2,046           3.630            5.841
Net profit (loss)                 -4,000          -2,000           4,154            7,370          11,859
Current Assets                   306,411         338,230         375,684         415,024          445,453
Fixed assets                     381,530         358,010         333,810         309,610          285.410
Other assets                     121,000         120,800         120,500          119,590         120,200
Total assets                     824,841         832,940         845,894         860,124          866,963
Current Liabilities              367,960         389,650         416,750         444,110          461,920
Long-term debt                   312,540         299,450         281,150         260,650          237,820
Other Liabilities                   590
Total liabilities                680,500         689,100         697,900         704,760          699,740
Total equity                     144,340         143,840         147,994          155,364         167,223
Total liabilities and equity     824,841         832,940         845,894         860,124          866,963
Return on sales                   -2.2%           -0.9%             1.6%            2.5%            3.3%
Return on equity                  -2.8%           -1.4%             2.8%            4.7%            7.1%
Current ratio                     0.83:1          0.87:1           0.90:1          0.93:1          0.96:1
Debt equity ratio                  83:17           83:17           83:17            82:18           81:19
L-T debt equity ratio              68:32           68:32           66:34            63:37           59:41
Debt-service coverage ratio         1.02             1.2              1.2             1.2             1.2
- 34 -



Table 2-4 Projected Financial Position of CCID (A-5)
Unit: Y '000
Item                 2000               2001            2002           2003           2004
Sales revenue                    310,082         358,932         483,475         605,790         680,632
Sales tax                         1,038           1,200           1,600           2,000           2,250
Net sales                        309,044         357,732         481,875         603,790          678,382
Cost of production              230,441         266,876         377,354         487,426          551,402
Gross profit                      78,603          90,856         104,521          116,364         126,980
Administrative expenses         25,000          25,000          30,000           33,500          35,809
Financial charges               20,074          20,000           16,500          14,500          14,000
Operating income                  33,529          45,856          58,021          68,364           77,171
Income before tax                 33,529          45,856          58,021          68,364           77,171
Less: Income tax                 5,029           6,878            8,703          10,256          11,577
Net profit (loss)                 28,500          38,978          49,318          58,109           65,594
Current Assets                   211,019         241,078         271,231         333,827          377,634
Fixed assets                    265,,921         250,651         235,381         220,111          204,841
Other assets                      33,689          31,860          30,031          28,203           27,635
Total assets                     510,629         523,589         536,643          582,141         610,110
Currenit Liabilities             168,072         178,281         181,010         202,059          200,339
Long-term debt                   146,409         110,182          85,985          69,758           53,531
Other Liabilities
Total liabilities                314,481         288,463         266,995         271,817          253,870
Total equity                     196,149         235,126         269,649         310,325          356.240
Total liabilities and equity     510,629         523,589         536,643         582,141          610,110
Return on sales                    9.2%           10.9%            10.2%            9.6%            9.6%
Return on equity                  14.5%           21.0%            21.5%           21.1%           20.8%
Current ratio                     1.26:1           1.35:1          1.50:1          1.65:1           1.88:1
Total Debt/equity ratio            68:32           55:45           50:50           47:53            42:58
L-T debt/equity ratio              43:57           32:68           24:76            18:72           13:87
Debt-service coverage ratio         1.201           1.35            1.64             2.92            3.16
- 35 -



Table 3 Summary Highlights of ICBC and BOCOM Financial Statements, 1995 to 1999
Table 3-1. ICBC - Summary Highlights from Income Statements and Balance Sheets
(in Y million)
1995            1996             1997             1998             1999
Income Statements
Total Income                          652,549          750,360          222,882          194,957          195,016
Total Expenses                        647,880          744,549          219,831          191,505          190,890
Net Income before Inc. Tax              4,669            5,811            3,051            3,452            4,126
Income Taxes                            2,568            3,196            1,007            1.139            1,362
Net Income                              2,101            2,615            2,044            2.313            2,764
Balance Sheet Statements
Cash/due from banks                  1,344,456        1,480,064         600,166          450,202          417,592
Current assets                       2,649,225       3,044,859        2,323,431        2,542,710        2,517,336
Investment Loans:
-Long & medium term loan              294,758         372,171          406,547          476.596          686,772
-Working capital loans              1,186,346       1,427,900        1,588,509        1,794,943        1,740,350
Total Investment loans               1,481 , 104      1,800,071       1,995,056        2,271 ,539       2,427, 122
Less: Accumulated Provisions           11,269           12,576            7,856            7,916           16,609
Net Investnent Loans                 1,469,835        1,787,495        1,987,200       2,263,623        2,410,513
Long-terrn Investments                                                        .
Net Fixed Assets                       26,753           38,164           40,022           44,622           59,385
Other Assets                          148,029          186,952          174,641          182,726          292,982
TOTAL ASSETS                         3,107,496       3,629,570        2,936,785        3,238,738        3,539,866
Deposits:                            1,512,737        1,900,885       2,251,050        2,631,768        2.982,378
Total current Liabilities            1,891,737        2,126,222        1,344,153        1,422,443        1,617.198
Long-term Debts:                     1,068,898        1,409,194        1,495,776        1,632,402        1,741,193
Total Long-term Debts                1,068,898        1,409,194       1,495,776         1,632,402        1,741,193
Other liabilities                      54,150
Equity                                 92,711           94,154           96,856          183,893          181,475
TOTAL LIAB. & EQUITY                 3,107,496       3,629,570        2,936,785        3,238,738        3,539,866
RATIOS
Current Ratio(X)                          1.40             1.43            1.73             1.79             1.56
Long-Tern debt/equity ration             11.53           14.97            15.44             8 tY8            9.59
(X)
Total debt/equity ration (X)            32.52            37.55            29.32            16.61            18.51
Acc. Provisions/gross loani             0.76%            0.70%           0.39%            0.35%1           0.68%
portfolio (%)
Net Income/Equity (average) (%)         2.33%            2.80%           2.14%             1.65%            1.51%
As % of total assets (average):
-Total income                          22.73%          22.28%            6.79%            6.31%            5.75%
-Net income                             0.07%           0.08%            0.06%            0.07%1           0.08%
-Administrative/other expense           0.77%           0.78%            0.90%             1.03%            1.02%
- 36 -



Notes:
I . ICBC's intra-bank and inter- banking borrowing increased substantially from 1993-1996. In addition, it was based on1
double accounting among subbranches, branches, and HO, during that period. Thus, there was big increase in its total
income and total assets from 1994 to 1996.
2. ICBC had reconciled in 1997 the outstanding accounts amnong its branches and intra-branches income and expenses.
Consequently, there is a corresponding decrease in total assets, total liabilities, total income and expenses in 1997.
3. Interest rates in China were reduced seven times during May 1996 to October 1999. The average decrease in lendilng rate
was 6.42 per cent. This has reflected on ICBC's income.
- 37 -



Table 3-2. BOCOM - Summary Highlights from Income Statements and Balance Sheets
(in Y
million)
1995            1996             1997              1998             1999
Income Statements
Total Income                            27,179           31,961           32,185           29,009           24,522
Total Expenses                          21.554           26,180           26,963           26,342           21,837
Net Income before Inc. Tax               5,625            5,782            5,221            2,667            2,685
Income Taxes                             1,858            2,160            2,373            1,221             839
Net Income                               3,766            3,621            2,848            1,446            1.847
Balance Sheet Statements
Cash/due from banks                    129,850          135,382          151,899          134,161          158,561
Current assets                         291,996          337,339         352,772           362,547          370,162
Investment Loans:
-Long & medium term loan               29,517           44,597           70,941           76,643          105,581
-Working capital loans                131,023          154,291          157,088          182,183          177,133
Total Investment loans                 160,540          198,888         228,029           258,826          282,714
Less: Accumulated Provisions             2,211            2,747            3,311            5,720            5,267
Net Investment Loans                   158,329          196,141         224,718           253,106          277,447
Long-term Investments                   10,281           14,563           22,624           43,180           51,893
Net Fixed Assets                         2,546            2,749            3,422            4,059            4,750
Other Assets                             2,929            4,130            6,610            8,9331          16,198
TOTAL ASSETS                          332,845           397,884         449,748          483,923           538,050
Deposits:                              219,807         270,701          310,720           384,850          213,688
Total current Liabilities              243,078         296,601          336,309           417,150          465,037
Total Long-term Debts                   69,602           79,654           90,058           43,460           46,097
Other liabilities
Equity                                  20,166           21,629           23,380           23,313           26,915
TOTAL LIAB. & EQUITY                  332,845           397,884         449,748          483,923           538,050
RATIOS
Current Ratio (X)                         1.20             1.14             1.05             0.87             0.80
Long-Term debt/equity ratio (X)           3.45             3.68             3.85             1.86             1.71
Total debt/equity ratio (X)              15.51            17.40            18.24            19.76            18.99
Ace. Provisions/gross loan              1.38%            1.38%            1.45%            2.21I'%          1.86%
portfolio (%)
Net Income/Equity (average) (%)        20.23%           17.33%           12.66%            6.19%            7.35%
As % of total assets (average):
-Total income                           8.52%            8.75%            7.59%            6.21%            4.80%O,
-Net income                             1.18%            0.99%            0.67%            0.31%            0.36%
-Administrative/other expense           1.05% 1.17%                      1.08%            1.06%             1.00%
- 38 -



Notes:
I .Financial projections prepared for BOCOM at the time of project appraisal were for its Tianjin branclh only, because it was
a legal entity. All branches were later merged in head office and lost their separate legal status.
2. BOCOM's deposits decreased in 1999, mainly because of the impact of bankruptcy of Hainan Development Bank and
Guangdong Intemational Trust and Investment Company. There was a shift in deposits to state-owned banks.
3. Interest rates in China were reduced seven times during May 1996 to October 1999. The average decrease in leidinig rate
was 6.42 per cent. This has reflected oni BOCOM's income.
Attachment
Transition Arrangements to Regular Operations for Subprojects A-3 and A-4
TCMC (Diesel Engine Subproject A-3).
Workshop Construction
The continued disagreement between TCMC and the JV concerning quality of the floor is having a
negative effect on the ability of the two sides to work together effectively. This dispute needs to be
resolved rather than to continue debating and arguing. Some kind of repair and sealin-g process in the
joint areas need to be undertaken urgently. Furthermore, if either party is not satisfied with the data and
findings of the Tianjin Construction Bureau, an independent civil engineering agency should be
consulted.
Foreign Equipment
*  TCMC should take control of the remaining two pieces of machinery (Special Heller Milling Machine
for crankshafts and Broaching Machine for main bearing caps) from Heckert. TCMC should hire a
cotnpany from China to start-up and debug the machines. This is likely to take 6 months to one year.
*  TCMC should setup a separate operation to 100% inspect the main bearing cap face flatness and to
rework any defective product. TCMC should cancel the contract with Heckert and enlist a company
from China to try to solve the quality problem. (The Bank already approved the contract cancellation in
April, 2000, at the request of TCMC.)
Local Equipment
e  TCMC should demand that TMTC (supplier) put people on sight to resolve the quality issues on the 8
machines. The close tolerances required by Perkins may make this a difficult problem to resolve
without constant attention by TMTC.
*  Where possible maintenance contracts should be signed which guarantee a service technician on sight
within 24 hours to fix tnachinery. This is especially important on the flexible CNC equipment.
  TCMC need to get control on the remaining 476 items of CMK can not meet the requirements,
characteristics even though they may not be critical in nature. It is likely that Perkins will require these
to meet strictly the product specifications/quality standards.
Equipment Transfer to the JV
*  TCMC should begin invoicing the JV for the assembly and test area since the JV has already signed off
on this area.
*  TCMC and the JV should work out an equipment transfer plan that includes how to effectively deal
with any problems found at the time of transfer and a timetable. If there are issues not resolved they
should be documented and resolved prior to acceptance.
- 39 -



*  TCMC should propose starting immediately with the camshaft line, followed quickly with the
crankshaft line, then the main bearing cap line and finally the cylinder head line and cylinder block line.
*  TCMC will need to bring in additional resources and install more measuring equipment in order to
efficiently deal with all of the measurement that will need to be done.
*  TCMC should negotiate with the JV that the JV takes responsibility for each line as it is approved.
*  A definite plan for approval of castings and forgings needs to be prepared and approved at the same
time as the equipment for each line.
*  TCMC should prepare a listing of where they need Perkins assistance either on machinety or any other
technology issue. These issues should be brought forth both at the TCMC, JV management level and
also at the more senior level between the two companies.
Transition into Production
*  More JV workers and managers should be involved with the final adjustment of the machinery and
processes.
*  There should be a phase-in of JV persons in production and a phase-out of TCMC involvement with
the equipment.
*  The JV should use a fonn of managed introduction whereby voltune is increased slowly as verification
tests are conducted on the product.
a  The JV must initiate a strong quality control program and engine verification program at the plant
start-up. Routine engine quality audits must be run and analyzed, 250, 500 and 1000 hour engine tests
need to be conducted and the engines tom down and checked for any early indications of failure. Data
from these evaluations should form the basis to determine the acceptable level of volume to build.
Perkins quality level should be clearly understood in quantifiable terms. The product produced by the
JV should be of the same level or better.
-  During the first 2 years of JV production, Perkins should initiate a monitoring plan and perfonn
endurance testing on JV product to assure that Perkins standards are being met.
-  The JV should place process control parameters and charts to assure the processes remain stable and in
control on critical characteristics.
-  More JV employees should be trained at Perkins on management techniques and Perkins technology
=  The JV should have a Director of Engineering or a Chief Engineer.
Market Penetration
  The JV should make more aggressive efforts to sign the contract with No. I Auto Works to supply new
engines.
*  The JV needs to offer more incentive programs to attract some new OEM's. At this stage projected
engine costs should be known and the JV should offer for sale limited numbers of engines at slightly
above projected variable cost. This should be done to get engines into the field with localized product
and to start gaining customer acceptance.
*  The JV needs to have a strong market seeding and infant care program in order to assure that each
OEM and major end user is satisfied with the product. Data collected from these programs should be
used to make changes to the engine specifications.
Others
The diesel engine subproject has got two other problems. First, the foreign partner of the JV wants to pull
- 40 -



out of or significantly decrease its share-holding in the subproject. TCMC should look for anotlher
reputable international partner to replace the present foreign partner. Alternatively, TCMC should consider
to sign up a long-term technology transfer/collaboration agreement with the present foreign partner.
Second, JV should prepare a list of changes in its machinery and equipment required to meet the new
EURO I emission standards and arrange for needed additional investment to cairy out the changes. This
should be given a high priority because the new standards would be effective on January 1, 200 1.
TMTC (Metal Cutting Division and Hydraulic Press Division Subproject A-4)
Marketing and Sale
Improved marketing within both product groups of TMTC has been considered the biggest challenge.
The focus of all employees has to be on low cost and high quality in all aspects of business.
Consultants have given a number of suggestions to improve sales and many have been already
implemented by TMTC as mentioned in Section 4. 1.
Production and Cost Control
T The new manufacturing plants and new equipment that has been installed in these plants is world class
and capable of producing competitive products worldwide. However, one of the major problems for the
future will be in the area of manufacturing engineering. It is absolutely essential that TMTC develop a
manufacturing engineering capability that will provide direction and control of the manufacturing
process. It would cover computer programming for machines, a preset tooling capability, production
planning and scheduling based on actual orders and a master production schedule based on realistic
projections of new business, machine and plant maintenance and housekeeping, assembly procedures
and fixtures for unit build and test, and quality control systems and procedures for the production.
Furthennore, cost-savings can be brought through removing surplus staff, decreasing inventoly levels,
securing sub-contracting business, improving tooling management and control, maintaining detailed and
accurate cost of products, and developing a strong purchasing organization.
Strategies to Improve Competitiveness
T To differentiate their products in market place, TMTC should develop efficient customer service, carry
out market research on a continuing basis, dominate the domestic market and use it as a base to
develop export markets, build a combination of in-house and contract capacity for technology transfer
and product design using design standards that are common throughout the product lines, and train
staff in various disciplines.
Organization
*  There should be delegation of authority and responsibility to lower levels and every department and
unit should not report directly to the CEO.
*  There should be a budget and operating plan for every business unit and periodical review of any
variance between the budget/plan and the actual numbers.
*   lnventory control should be enhanced.
*  As mentioned earlier in the report (Section 4. 1), TCMC has already started to implemiient the above
recomnmendations. It has to carry out all the measures recommended by the consultant to obtain full
benefits, including the break-even by the end of 2000.
-41 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
IndiatorMatrix            [         Proj     last                          Actual/Latest Estimate
A. Accelerate policy and enterprise reforms
in project subsectors.
Impact Indicators: Govemment to initiate    100% by 1995                                100% by 1995
actions to create share-holding
companies.
A. Outcome Indicators: Production and price  100% by 1996                               100% by 1996
controls to be removed.
Share-holding companies to be               100% by 1998                                75 % by 1998 1)
established and fully consolidated.
Non-viable plants to be closed.            100 % by 1998                                100 % by 1998
6,500 redundant workers to be redeployed.   100% by 1998                                100 % by 1999
B. Modernize and restructure the
subsectoral enterprises based on economic
criteria and commercial viability.
Outcome Indicators:
Select consultants for reorganization and   100 % by 1998                               100 % by 1998
restructuring of enterprises.
Prepare restructuring plans and approve     100 % by 1995                               100 % by 1995
subloans.
Implement Subprojects.                      90 % by 1998                                100 % by 2001 2)
Train enterprise management and staff.      100 % by 2000                              100 % by 2000
Subprojects have a minimum ERR and FRR      100 % by 2002                               75 % by 2003 3)
of 12% by year 2000.
Enterprses have a debt-service coverage of
at least 1.5 times, a current ratio of at least  100 % by 2002                          75 % by 2003 3)
1.5:1 and a long-term debt/equity ratio of not
more than 70:30 by the year 2000.
C. Strengthen training institutes and
technical centers.
Outcome Indicators: Procure facilities and  100 % by 2000                               100 % by 2000
train staff of institutes and centers
D. Strengthen institutional framework for
labor redeployment.
Outcome Indicator: Train 140 staff of the
Labor Bureau by the year 2000.
Reorganize and introduce computerized       100 % by 2000                               100 % by 2000
information system in the Labor Bureau
Note
I. There has been gap, regarding full consolidation for TCMC and TMTC, in the sense that their enterprises maintained separate legal status.
2. The diesel engine subproject is delayed and has not yet put into noenal operation.
3. TAPC and CCiD can neetethe minimnum requirements by 2003. TMTC may meetthe targets substantially by 2003, but TCMC with respect to
diesel engine stibproject is uncertain.
- 42 -



Output Indicators:
Indlcatornfltrix                     Procftd in lmt PSR'                    Actuallkatest Esfimate
Subproject operate at a minimum of 80 %      100 % by 2002                                75 % by 2003
capacity
Technical centers operate at a minimum of    100 % by 2002                                100 % by 2000
80 % capacity
Training institutes train at least 500 staff per  1 00 % by 2000                         1 00 % by 2000
year for sector corporations
End of project
-43 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Estimated and Actual Cost and Financing of TIDP
(in US$ million)
Original Estimate          Actual Cost/Financing     Percentage
________________________________                                     ~~~C han ge
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
______________________________      Cost     Cost      Cost      Cost      Cost      Cost
Investment Components
Capital Cost:
TATC-A-l                                1.77    21.07     22.84      4.92     18.73     23.64         3.5
TCMC-A-3                              21.17     44.50     65.67     24.80     42.45     67.26         2.4
TMTC-A-4                               13.51    25.94     39.46     13.78     17.08     30.86       -21.8
CCID-A-5                               5.92     16.80     22.72      8.95     15.74     24.69         8.7
Electronic Component. A-2                       10.78     10.78                          0.00
Subtotal                               42.38    119.09    161.47    52.45     94.00    146.45        -9.3
Incremental Working Capital              5.93      1.20     7.13      0.47      4.12      4.59       -35.6
Subtotal for Investment Component      48.30    120.29    168.60     52.92     98.12    151.04       -10.4
TA Component
Technical Centers                                  11.5    12.47      0.72      4.63      5.35       -57.0
0.97
Consulting Services for Project         0.00      2.50      2.50     0.00       1.98      1.98      -20.8
Implementation
Enterprise Management Training           0.00     0.70      0.70      0.00      0.14      0.14       -80.0
Training of PFI staff                    0.00     0.20      0.20      0.00      0.16      0.16       -20.0
Training Centers                         0.00     0.30      0.30                          0.00
Labor Redeployment                       0.00     0.30      0.30                          0.00
Subtotal for TA Comp.                  0.97     15.50     16.47      0.72      6.91      7.63       -53.8
;Unallocated loan                                 14.21     14.21
Total Cost                             49.27    150.00    199.27     53.64    105.03    158.67       -20.4
Financing:
World Bank Loan                                150.00    150.00              105.03    105.03       -30.0
Local Bank Loans                      42.51      0.00     42.51     41.85      0.00     41.85        -1.6
Enterprise Finance                     6.76      0.00      6.76     11.79      0.00     11.79        74.4
Total Financing                        49.27    150.00    199.27    53.64    105.03    158.67       -20.4
Note:
1. The exchange rate used at TIDP appraisal in 1992 was $1: Y5.75, and the exchange rate used for subprqject appraisal during
1994 to 1996 was $1: Y 8.8. Beside, the local cost for the project, estimated during the subproject appraisal was lowcr than
that at TIDP appraisal. Thus the total estimated cost and financing at subproject appraisal was lower than $ 222.00millioin at
TIDP project appraisal.
2. Loan allocations for Sub-loan A-2. Training Center, Strengthening and Consulting Service for Labor Redeploymenit uLider TA
were cancelled, with the approval of World Bank.
- 44 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method'
|   Expenditure Category       Ice             NCB            &               N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                           0.00            0.00           13.87            0.00           13.87
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)
2. Goods                          95.00            0.00           74.90            0.00          169.90
(95.00)         (0.00)         (39.50)          (0.00)        (134.50)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00           15.50            0.00           15.50
(0.00)          (0.00)         (15.50)         (0.00)         (15.50)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                          95.00            0.00           104.27           0.00          199.27
(95.00)         (0.00)         (55.00)          (0.00)        (150.00)
Note:
I. Due to the change of exchange rate and lower local cost estimated at subproject appraisal; the total cost and finanicing at
subproject appraisal was $199.27 million, lower than $222.0 million at TIDP project appraisal.
2. The figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
ProCurment Method                            l
Expenditure Category                           NCB            Otter           N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                          0.00            0.00           34.64            0.00(          34.64
(0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
2. Goods                           5.00            0.00           116.66           0.00          121.66
(5.00)          (0.00)         (97.66)         (0.00)         (102.66)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00            2.37            0.00           2.37
(0.00)          (0.00)          (2.37)         (0.00)          (2.37)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                           5.00            0.00           153.67           0.00          158.67
(5.00)          (0.00)        (100.03)         (0.00)         (105.03)
Note: The figures in parenthesis are the amount actually financed by the Bank.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs includc contingencics.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremcntal operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
-45 -



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equi alent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component               Appraisal lEstimate            AtlaestE          a
i_ _        Bank      tGosvt.     C.   2 iBank         Govt.        oF.      ilG           CoF.
lndustrial Investment     134.50     65.50                 98.12      52.92                73.u   8(.8
Technical Assistance &     15.50      6.50                  6.91       0.72   |            44.6    II.I
training
Total Financing           150.00     72.00                 105.03     53.64  {             70.0   74.5
Note. The figure of "Appraisal estimate"" means that at TIDP appraisal in 1992.
- 46 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable.
- 47 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
,Stai of Proect Cle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Ratine
(e.g. 2 Economists. I FMS etc).)   Ililplementation      Developiient
Month/Year    Count        Specialtv                        PIrogress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
March 1990                     6   TM, TA, 2 SE, FA, ENVS
JLIIY 1990                     2   TM, TA
May 1991 (Pre-appraisal)       4   TM, TA, SE, TC
Appraisal/Negotiation
June 1992                      5    TM, 00, SC, SE, ENGR
Supervision
July 1993                       1  TM                                     S                  S
April 1994                      2   00, IE                                U                  S
May 1995                        2   TM, 00                                S                  S
November 1995                   2   TM, 00                                S                  S
May 1996                        3   0O, FA, UE                            S                  S
November 1996                   5   TM, 00, ES, DO, PO                    S                  S
July 1997                       4  TM, 00, 2 TC                           S                  S
December 1997                   3  TM, 00, PO                             S                  S
May 1998                        1  00                                     S                  S
November 1998                   1  TM                                     S                  S
May 1999                        2   TM, TC                                S                  S
March 2000                      5   TM, DES, PS, DS, FA                   S                  U
ICR
September 2000                 3   TM, 2 FA                               S                  U
Specialized staff skills: TM-   Task Manager
00-   Operations Officer
SC-   Senior Counsel
SE-    Senior Economist
ES-    Enterprise Specialist
ENVS- Environment Specialist
ENGR- Engineer
IE-    Industrial Engineer
FA-   Financial Analyst
DO-   Disbursement Officer
DO-   Disbursement Specialist
PO-   Procurement Officer
PS-    Procurement Specialist
UE-   Urban Economist
DES-  Diesel Engine Specialist
TA-   Technical Adviser
TC-   Technical Consultant
- 48 -



(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                USS (,OOO)
Identification/Preparation     Data not available                 496,1 53.35*
Appraisal/Negotiation          Data not available
Supervision                                53.69                   279,495.35
ICR                                          4.2                     27,242.35
Total
802,891.05
*. This the estimated amount during Identification/Preparation, and Appraisal/Negotiation.
- 49 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                          O H  O SU OM  OJ N  * NA
Sector Policies                           O H  * SU O M  O N  0 NA
f Physical                                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
* Financial                                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
institutional Development                 0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  C NA
Environmental                             O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                 O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
N Gender                            O H OSUOM O N * NA
j Other (Please specify)            O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
2 Private sector development               0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
E Public sector management                 0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Other (Please specifr)                   0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
- 50 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
 Lending                                             OHSOS Ou OHU
 Supervision                                         OHS OS  Ou   OHU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                              Rating
Z  Preparation                                        OHS OS  O  U  O HU
*  Government implementation performance              O HS O s  0  U      HU
? Implementation agency performance                   OHS OS  O  U  O HU
Z  Overall                                            OHS OS  O  U  C HU
- 51 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
The following documents are available upon request:
1. Staff appraisal report: Tianjin Industrial Development Project. February 11,1993 (Report No.
11253-CHA)
2. Minutes of negotiations between People's Republic of China and the World Bank regarding the
Tianjin Industrial Development Project, dated (?)
3. Loan agreement between People's Republic of China and the World Bank for Tianjin Industrial
Development Project, Dated June 2, 1994;
4. Tianjin Project Agreement, Dated June 2, 1994;
5. Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement, between Bank of Communication, China, Industrial
and commercial Bank of China, with the World Bank for Tianjin Industrial Development Project,
Dated June 2, 1994;
6. World Bank supervision reports (1993 to 2000),
7. World Bank ICR mission aide Memoir, dated September, 2000;
8. Audit annual reports of two PFIs (1995- 1999);
9. Audit report on the statements of expenditures of the project (1995- 1999);
10. Consultant Report on TCMC (A-4) (June, 1999);
11. Consultant Report on Diesel Engine Subproject of TCMC (A-3) (March 2000);
- 52 -



