Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3572 CHA
Financial Intermediaries
Project Agreement
(Tianjin Industrial Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANK OF COMMUNICATIONS, TIANJIN BRANCH
and
INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL BANK OF CHINA
Dated June 2, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3572 CHA
FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARIES PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 2, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BANK OF COMMUNICATIONS, TIANJIN BRANCH and INDUSTRIAL AND 
COMMERCIAL BANK OF CHINA (the Financial Intermediaries).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred fifty 
million dollars ($150,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Financial 
Intermediaries agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in 
this Agreement and that the Tianjin Municipality agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Bank as are set forth in the
Tianjin Project Agreement;
(B)
by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between  Tianjin 
Municipality and the Financial Intermediaries, a portion of the proceeds of the loan 
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be relent to the Financial Intermediaries 
on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and
WHEREAS the Financial Intermediaries, in consideration of the Bank's entering 
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations 
set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of the Financial Intermediaries
Section 2.01. (a) Each Financial Intermediary declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall carry out its respective part of Parts A and B.2 of the Project, in 
the case of ICBC, through its Tianjin branch, 
and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial standards 
and practices, with qualified management and personnel, and in accordance with:  (i) 
for BOCOM, the BOCOM Charter and the BOCOM Statement of Operating Policies and 
Procedures; and (ii) for ICBC, the ICBC Charter and the ICBC Policy Statement.
(b)
Each Financial Intermediary shall carry out its respective part of Part 
B.2 of the Project in accordance a training program agreed with the Bank.
Section 2.02. (a) Each Financial Intermediary undertakes that, unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans shall be made in accordance with the procedures and 
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
Each Financial Intermediary shall exercise its rights in relation to each 
Investment Project financed by it in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of 
the Bank and of the Financial Intermediary; (ii) comply with its obligations under 
this Agreement and its respective
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.03. Each Financial Intermediary shall carry out the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land  acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
Agreement and its respective part of Parts A and B.2 of the Project.
Section 2.04. Each Financial Intermediary shall duly perform all its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, no 
Financial Intermediary shall take or concur in any action which would have the effect 
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) Each Financial Intermediary shall, at the request of the Bank, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of its respective part of 
Parts A and B.2 of the project, the performance of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under its respective the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Each Financial Intermediary shall promptly inform the Bank of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its 
respective part of Parts A and B.2 of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes 
of the Loan, or the performance by the Financial
Intermediaries of its obligations under this Agreement and under its respective 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) Each Financial Intermediary shall exchange views with the Bank 
on any proposal to modify the following documents: (i) for BOCOM, the BOCOM Charter 
and the BOCOM Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures; and (ii) for ICBC, the 
ICBC Charter and the ICBC Policy Statement.
Page  3
(b)
From time to time, at the request of any party, each Financial 
Intermediary shall exchange views with the Borrower and the Bank on the interest rates 
to be charged by each Financial Intermediary in its lending operations in light of its 
cost of funds and profitability and of movements in interest and inflation rates in 
China and internationally.
Section 2.07. If any Financial Intermediary has, establishes or acquires any 
Subsidiary, such Financial Intermediary shall cause any such Subsidiary to which the 
obligations of such Financial Intermediary under this Agreement relate to observe and 
perform such obligations as though such obligations were binding upon such Subsidiary.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each Financial Intermediary shall maintain procedures and 
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of its respective part of Parts A 
and B.2 of the Project and of each Investment Project (including its cost and the 
benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with consistently 
maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial condition of such 
Financial Intermediary.
(b)
Each Financial Intermediary shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited, and 
(B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
Section 3.02. Each Financial Intermediary shall take such steps satisfactory to 
the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from 
changes in the rates of exchange between the various currencies (including Renminbi) 
used in its operations.
Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Bank and the Financial Intermediary concerned 
shall otherwise agree, no Financial Intermediary or any Subsidiary thereof shall incur 
any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt to equity shall be 
greater than: (i) for BOCOM, 5 to 1; and (ii) for ICBC, 10 to 1.
(b)
Except as the Bank and ICBC shall otherwise agree, neither ICBC nor any 
Subsidiary of ICBC shall incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the 
ratio of total debt to equity shall be greater than 20:1.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Financial 
Intermediary or 
Subsidiary maturing by its terms more than one 
year after the date on which it 
is originally incurred, except that the 
term "total debt" means any 
indebtedness of ICBC or 
any Subsidiary of ICBC regardless of when it matures 
by its terms.
 
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
Page  4
entered into.
(iii)
The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, 
retained earnings and reserves of the Financial 
Intermediary and Subsidiary 
not allocated to cover specific 
liabilities.
(iv)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of Renminbi, debt payable in another currency, such 
valuation shall be 
made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of 
exchange at which such 
other currency is, at the time of such 
valuation, obtainable for the purposes 
of servicing such debt, or, in 
the absence of such rate, on the basis of a 
rate of exchange 
acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of the 
Financial Intermediaries thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan 
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Financial Intermediaries thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered 
by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter 
specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice to 
the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For BOCOM:
Bank of Communications, Tianjin Branch
70 Harbin Road
Tianjin 300041
People's Republic of China
Page  5
Cable address:
Telex:
 
0298 COMMUBANK
234147 COMTJ CN
Tianjin
For ICBC:
Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, Tianjin Branch
7th floor, 11 Datong Road
Heping District
Tianjin
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
40402
234020 ICBTJ CN
Tianjin
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of a Financial 
Intermediary may be taken or executed by its President, or, in the case of ICBC, the 
President of its Tianjin branch, or such other person or persons any such President 
shall designate in writing, and each Financial Intermediary shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Guatam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
BANK OF COMMUNICATIONS, TIANJIN BRANCH
INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL BANK OF CHINA by its
   Tianjin branch
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions
of Sub-loans
1.
Principal Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans:
 
(a)
Sub-loans shall bear interest on the principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate not less than the calculated rate in  
accordance with Section 2.05 (a) of the Loan Agreement, plus a spread of not less than 
one and two-tenths percent (1.2%).
Page  6
(b)
Repayment periods shall not extend beyond fifteen years, including up to 
three years of grace.
(c)
Commitment charges shall be paid on the undisbursed balance of Sub-loans 
at the rate of three-quarters of one percent (0.75%) per annum.
(d)
Each Investment Enterprise shall bear the foreign exchange risk on its 
Sub-loan between the Renminbi and the Bank's currency pool.
(e)
No Sub-loan shall be made to an Investment Enterprise unless:
 
(i)
the Investment Project shall be consistent with the Development 
Program and 
Strategy;
 
(ii)
the Investment Project shall have minimum financial and economic 
rates of 
return of at least twelve percent (12%);
 
(iii)
the Investment Enterprise shall have a satisfactory projected 
financial 
position as determined by generally accepted 
financial standards, including a 
debt-service coverage of at least 1.5 
times, a current ratio of at least 1.5:1 
and a debt:equity ratio of 
no more than 70:30; and
(iv)
the Investment Enterprise has been established as a limited 
liability company 
or limited share company in accordance with the 
Development Program and 
Strategy, with a charter acceptable to 
the Bank.
(f)
All Investment Projects shall have been approved by the Tianjin Municipal 
Environmental Protection Bureau, and each Financial Intermediary shall ensure that the 
Investment Projects to be financed by it are in compliance with environmental 
standards satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
No expenditures for goods or services required for an Investment Project shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:
(a)
the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been approved by the 
Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to 
the date on which the Bank shall have received the application and information 
required under paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan; or
(b)
the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been a free-limit 
Sub-loan for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such 
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on 
which the Bank shall have received the request and information required under 
paragraph 3(b) of this Schedule in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan.
(i)
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement and this Agreement, a 
free-limit 
Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an Investment 
Project in an amount to be 
financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan which, when added to any other 
outstanding amounts 
financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan or 
of any other loan, provided for in any outstanding loan agreement 
between the Bank and the Borrower entered into before the date of this 
Agreement, the proceeds of which have been or are being used for financing 
goods and services directly and materially related to such 
Investment Project, 
shall not exceed in the aggregate the sum of 
$4,000,000 equivalent, the 
foregoing amount being subject to 
change from time to time as determined by 
the Bank.
 
(ii)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (i) above, the 
first Sub-loan 
for an Investment Project in each Project Sub-sector 
and the first three 
Sub-loans proposed to be made by each 
Financial Intermediary shall not be 
eligible to be treated as 
free-limit Sub-loans.
Page  7
3.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-loan) to the Bank 
for approval, a Financial Intermediary shall furnish to the Bank an application, in 
form satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the Investment 
Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project, including a description of the 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the 
proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization 
of the Sub-loan; and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably 
request.
(b)
Each request by a Financial Intermediary for authorization to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: 
(i) a summary description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project, 
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub- loan, including 
the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or 
before June 30, 1996.
4.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby a Financial Intermediary shall obtain, 
by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal 
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and such Financial 
Intermediary, including the right to:
(a)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the 
carrying out of the Investment Project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the 
Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction 
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records 
and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Bank or such Financial Intermediary 
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, 
operations and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to 
be derived from the Investment Project; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of 
the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its 
obligations under its contract with such Financial Intermediary.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, each Financial Intermediary shall cause 
Investment Enterprises to procure goods and services and shall employ consultants 
under Part B.2 of the Project in accordance with this Schedule.
1.
Goods and services estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with 
those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World 
Page  8
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).  For 
the fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the 
Guidelines shall provide that, then contract award is delayed beyond the original bid 
validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of 
delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied 
to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency component of 
the bid price.  Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid 
evaluation.
2.
In the procurement of goods in accordance with such procedures, goods 
manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and 
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and 
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
3.
Goods and services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $5,000,000 per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of evaluation and 
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three qualified suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank; 
except that proprietary equipment may be procured directly from the manufacturer in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.
Review of procurement decisions by the Bank:
 
(a)
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(i)
With respect to each contract procured in accordance with 
paragraph 1 above, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. Where payments for such 
contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two 
conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant 
to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of 
the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(ii)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding 
paragraph, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. Where payments for 
such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two 
conformed copies of the contract together with the other information required 
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to 
the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 
of 
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
 
(iii)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply 
to contracts 
on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to 
be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
 
(b)
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Financial Intermediaries in carrying out Part B.2 of the 
Project, each Financial Intermediary shall employ consultants whose qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. 
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank 
in August 1981.
