Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3572 CHA
Tianjin
Project Agreement
(Tianjin Industrial Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
TIANJIN MUNICIPALITY
Dated June 2, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3572 CHA
TIANJIN PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 2, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and TIANJIN MUNICIPALITY (Tianjin Municipality).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's Republic of 
China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred fifty million 
dollars ($150,000,000), on the terms and  conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, 
but only on condition that Tianjin Municipality agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement and that the Financial 
Intermediaries agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in 
the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement; and
WHEREAS Tianjin Municipality, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the 
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in 
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Tianjin Municipality declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out Part B.1 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and industrial 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for
Parts A and B.1 of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Tianjin Municipality shall otherwise agree, Tianjin 
Municipality shall carry out Part B.1 of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Tianjin Municipality shall relend the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated to Parts A and B.2 of the Project to the Financial Intermediaries under 
subsidiary loan agreements whose terms and conditions shall have been approved by the 
Bank, which shall include:
(i)
interest calculated in accordance with Section 2.05 (a) of the 
Loan Agreement;
(ii)
repayment over a period not to exceed twenty years, including a 
period of 
grace of five years;
 
(iii)
commitment charges payable at the rate stated in Section 2.04 of 
the Loan 
Agreement; and
 
(iv)
foreign exchange risk between Renminbi and the Bank's currency 
pool to be 
borne by the Financial Intermediaries.
 
(b)
Tianjin Municipality shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and Tianjin 
Municipality and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, Tianjin Municipality shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
(c)
Tianjin Municipality shall relend $9,700,000 out of the proceeds of the 
loan allocated to Part B.1 of the Project to Investment Enterprises on the terms and 
conditions set out in paragraph (a) above, including the foreign exchange risk to be 
borne by the Investment Enterprises.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for Part B.1 of the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.04. Tianjin Municipality shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Tianjin Project Agreement and Part B.1 of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Tianjin Municipality shall, at the request of the Bank, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part B.1 of the Project, 
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
Page  3
(b)
Tianjin Municipality shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B.1 of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Tianjin 
Municipality of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements. 
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Tianjin Municipality shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part B.1 of the Project of 
the departments or agencies of the Tianjin Municipality responsible for carrying out 
Part B.1 of the Project.
(b)
Tianjin Municipality shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and 
those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Tianjin 
Municipality thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Tianjin 
Municipality thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
Page  4
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For Tianjin Municipality:
Tianjin Municipal Finance Bureau
Qufu Road, Heping District
Tianjin 300042
People's Republic of China
Telex:
234061 TJFB CN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Tianjin 
Municipality may be taken or executed by Vice Mayor or such other person or persons as 
Vice Mayor shall designate in writing, and Tianjin Municipality shall furnish to the 
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of 
each such person. 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
TIANJIN MUNICIPALITY
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items of specialized equipment estimated to cost more than 
the equivalent of $1,000,000 shall be procured under contracts awarded through limited 
Page  5
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids 
obtained from at least three qualified
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set forth in 
Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, and 2.56 
thereof).
2.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or less 
per contract, shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of 
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers, from at least three different 
countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part B:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist Tianjin Municipality in carrying out Part B.1 of the Project, 
Tianjin Municipality shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and 
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants 
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
Tianjin Municipality shall take all steps necessary to implement the Development 
Program and Strategy and shall exchange views with the Bank from time to time at least 
every six months on the progress of such implementation.
2.
Tianjin Municipality shall ensure that the consultants' services and local and 
overseas training under Part B.1 of the Project are provided in accordance with a 
technical assistance program agreed with the Bank, and, to that end, shall, by October 
31 in each year, furnish to the Bank, for its approval, a program for local and 
overseas training for the next calendar year.
3.
Tianjin Municipality shall maintain its task force on industrial restructuring 
and its project implementation office to assist the task force, both with functions 
and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, staffed by competent staff in adequate 
numbers.
Page  6
4.
For the purposes of Part A of the Project and Section 1.02 (n) of the Loan 
Agreement, Project Sub-sectors shall be the industrial sub-sectors of machine tools, 
construction equipment, electronics components, automotive parts and electric motors, 
and other industrial sub-sectors agreed between the Bank and Tianjin Municipality on 
the basis of sub-sector studies and development strategies prepared by Tianjin 
Municipality and acceptable to the Bank.
