Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3572 CHA
(Tianjin Industrial Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 2, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3572 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 2, 1994, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
Tianjin Municipality has adopted a development program and strategy for 
the industrial sub-sectors of machine tools, construction equipment, electronics 
components, automotive parts and electric motors, dated January 29, 1993;
(C)
Part B.1 of the Project will be carried out by Tianjin Municipality and 
Parts A and B.2 of the Project will be carried out by Bank of Communications, Tianjin 
Branch (BOCOM), and Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) (the Financial 
Intermediaries), all with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, 
the Borrower will make available to Tianjin Municipality the proceeds of the Loan as 
provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Page  2
Agreement and in the Tianjin Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank 
and Tianjin Municipality and the Financial
Intermediaries Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Financial Intermediaries;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"BOCOM" means the Bank of Communications, Tianjin Branch, an independent 
legal person established and operating under the BOCOM Charter. 
(b)
"BOCOM Charter" means the Charter of the Bank of Communications, a 
national socialist joint-stock financial enterprise primarily under public ownership, 
approved by the People's Bank of China on March 10, 1987.
(c)
"BOCOM Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures" means the 
Statement of  operating policies and procedures approved by the Directors of BOCOM on 
January 6, 1993, and as revised thereafter with the Bank's concurrence.
(d)
"Development Program and Strategy" means the development program and 
strategy for the industrial sub-sectors of machine tools, construction equipment, 
electronics components, automotive parts and electric motors, adopted by Tianjin 
Municipality, dated January 29,  1993 and includes any development program and 
strategy for a Project Sub-sector thereafter agreed with the Bank pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to the Tianjin Project Agreement.
(e)
"Financial Intermediaries" means BOCOM and ICBC, collectively, and 
"Financial Intermediary" means any of the Financial Intermediaries. 
(f)
"Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement" means the agreement among 
the Bank and the Financial Intermediaries of even date herewith, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement.
(g)
"foreign Currency" means any currency other than the currency of the 
Borrower.
(h)
"free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as 
a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 1 to 
the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement.
(i)
"ICBC" means the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, a specialized 
banking institution established and operating under the ICBC Charter.
(j)
"ICBC Charter" means the Charter of the Industrial and Commercial Bank of 
China, approved by the State Council on recommendation of the People's Bank of China 
on November 15, 1989.
(k)
"ICBC Policy Statement" means the policy statement approved by ICBC in 
July 1989, and as revised thereafter with the Bank's concurrence.
(l)
"Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise meeting the criteria set out 
in paragraph 1 (f) to Schedule 1 to the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement, to 
which a Financial Intermediary proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan.
Page  3
(m)
"Investment Project" means a specific technological restructuring project 
in a Project sub-sector to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the 
proceeds of a Sub-loan.
(n)
"Project Sub-sector" means an industrial sub-sector agreed between the 
Bank and Tianjin Municipality pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to the Tianjin 
Project Agreement.
(o)
"Renminbi" means the currency of the Borrower.
 
(p)
"Tianjin Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and 
Tianjin Municipality of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Tianjin 
Project Agreement.
(q)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(r)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a Financial 
Intermediary out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment Enterprise for an 
Investment Project.
(s)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements to be entered into 
between the Tianjin Municipality and the Financial Intermediaries pursuant to Section 
2.02 (a) of the Tianjin Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, and 
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
(t)
"Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the outstanding 
voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively controlled by a 
Financial Intermediary or by any one or more Subsidiaries of said Financial 
Intermediary or by said Financial Intermediary and any one or more of its 
Subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred fifty million 
dollars ($150,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for:
(i)
amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by a 
Financial 
Intermediary on account of withdrawals made by an 
Investment Enterprise under 
a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable cost 
of goods and services required for the 
Investment Project in respect of 
which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is 
requested;
 
(ii)
amounts in respect of interest during construction by an 
Investment Enterprise 
under a Sub-loan; and
 
(iii)
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) 
in respect 
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for 
Part B of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Page  4
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one 
percent (1/2  of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower 
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount 
outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated at the rates 
applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 
of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
(i)
in paragraph (a), the term "Interest Period" in the first sentence 
is replaced 
by the term "Quarter" and the word "rate" in the second 
sentence is replaced 
by the word "rates";
 
(ii)
the term "Semester", whenever it appears in paragraphs (a) and 
(b), is 
replaced by the term "Quarter"; and
 
(iii)
sub-paragraph (c) (iii) replaces the definition of "Semester" in 
its entirety.
Page  5
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 
15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project;
Use of the Proceeds of the Loan
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
the Borrower shall cause Tianjin Municipality and the Financial Intermediaries to 
perform all their respective obligations set forth in the Tianjin Project Agreement 
and the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken 
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Tianjin Municipality and the 
Financial Intermediaries to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to 
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
(b)
The Borrower shall onlend the proceeds of the Loan to Tianjin 
Municipality on the following principal terms and conditions:  (i) repayment over a 
period not exceeding 20 years, including five years of grace; (ii) interest calculated 
in accordance with Section 2.05 (a) of this Agreement; (iii) commitment charges at the 
rate stated in Section 2.04 of this Agreement; and (iv) foreign exchange risk to be 
borne by Tianjin Municipality.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Tianjin 
Project Agreement and Schedule 2 to the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively): (a) in respect of Part B.1 
of the Project, shall be carried out by Tianjin Municipality pursuant to Section 2.04 
of the Tianjin Project Agreement; and (b) in respect of Parts A and B.2 of the 
Project, shall be carried out by the Financial Intermediaries pursuant to Section 2.03 
of the Financial intermediaries Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. From time to time, at the request of any party, the Borrower shall 
exchange views with the Bank and any Financial Intermediary on the interest rates to 
be charged by each Financial Intermediary in its lending operations in light of its 
cost of funds and profitability and of movements in interest and inflation rates in 
China and internationally.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special 
Account was 
made; and
Page  6
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of such year the report of such 
audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Tianjin Municipality or any Financial Intermediary shall have failed to 
perform any of its obligations under the Tianjin Project Agreement or the Financial 
Intermediaries Project Agreement, respectively.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Tianjin Municipality or any Financial Intermediary will be able to perform its 
obligations under the Tianjin Project  Agreement or the Financial Intermediaries 
Project Agreement, respectively.
(c)
The BOCOM Charter or ICBC Charter or the BOCOM Statement of Operating 
Policies and Procedures or the ICBC Policy Statement shave have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
operations or the financial condition of any Financial Intermediary or its ability to 
carry out the Project or to perform any of its obligations under the Financial 
Intermediaries Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of any Financial Intermediary or 
for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
Page  7
General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on behalf of Tianjin 
Municipality and the Financial Intermediaries;
(b)
the Borrower's State Council has approved the Loan Agreement; and
 
(c)
the project implementation consultants shall have been appointed in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to the Tianjin Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Tianjin Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by Tianjin Municipality and is legally binding upon Tianjin Municipality in accordance 
with its terms;
(b)
that the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by the Financial Intermediaries, and is legally binding upon 
the Financial Intermediaries in accordance with its terms;
(c)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified 
by Tianjin Municipality and the Financial Intermediaries and are legally binding upon 
Tianjin Municipality and the Financial Intermediaries in accordance with their 
respective terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
Page  8
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                   Amount of
                                   the Loan             % of
                                 (Expressed in      Expenditures
          Category            Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1)       Sub-loans                134,500,000
    (a) interest                                    90% of amounts
        during                                      financed by a
        construction                                Financial
                                                    Intermediary
    (b) other                                       100% of amounts
        expenditures                                disbursed by a
                                                    Financial
                                                    intermediary
(2)    Goods under                  10,520,000      100% of foreign ex-
      Part B.1 of the                               penditures, 100% of
       Project                                      local expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory cost) and
                                                    75% of local expendi-
                                                    tures for other items
                                                    procured locally
(3)    Consultants'                  4,780,000      100%
      services and
       training under
      Part B.1 of the
      Project
Page  9
(4)   Staff training                   200,000      100%
      under Part B.2
       of the Project
          TOTAL                    150,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) a Subloan unless the Sub-loan has been made in accordance with 
the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 1 
to the Financial Intermediaries Project
Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories (2), (3) and (4) on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after July 31, 1992.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in industrial 
restructuring and to assist Tianjin Municipality in the implementation of its 
Development Program and Strategy, through acceleration of policy and enterprise 
reforms in Project Subsectors, modernization and restructuring of enterprises in the 
Project Sub-sectors based on economic criteria and commercial viability; 
streng-thening related technological infrastructure; improvement and reor-ganization 
of internal enterprise management systems; and diversi-fication and strengthening of 
the financial intermediation process.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Financial Assistance
 
Financing of specific technological restructuring projects through Sub-loans to 
enterprises in the Project Sub-sectors.
Part B:
Institutional Support
 
1.
Supporting the overall restructuring of the Project Sub-sectors, through 
provision of consultants' services, equipment and materials and local and overseas 
training in the areas of design and research, vocational training, management and 
operational training of enterprise management and staff and labor development.
2.
Strengthening the staff capabilities of the Financial Intermediaries through a 
program of staff training.
*        *        *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
Page  10
November 15, 1998                              
2,805,000
May 15, 1999                                   
2,910,000
November 15, 1999                              
3,015,000
May 15, 2000                                   
3,130,000
November 15, 2000                              
3,245,000
May 15, 2001                                   
3,365,000
November 15, 2001                              
3,490,000
May 15, 2002                                   
3,620,000
November 15, 2002                              
3,755,000
May 15, 2003                                   
3,895,000
November 15, 2003                              
4,040,000
May 15, 2004                                   
4,190,000
November 15, 2004                              
4,345,000
May 15, 2005                                   
4,505,000
November 15, 2005                              
4,675,000
May 15, 2006                                   
4,845,000
November 15, 2006                              
5,025,000
May 15, 2007                                   
5,215,000
November 15, 2007                              
5,405,000
May 15, 2008                                   
5,610,000
November 15, 2008                              
5,815,000
May 15, 2009                                   
6,035,000
November 15, 2009                              
6,255,000
May 15, 2010                                   
6,490,000
November 15, 2010                              
6,730,000
May 15, 2011                                   
6,980,000
November 15, 2011                              
7,240,000
May 15, 2012                                   
7,510,000
November 12, 2012                              
7,790,000
May 15, 2013                                   
8,070,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable 
to the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years                
0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                
0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                  
0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not               
0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not               
0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
Page  11
More than 18 years before                
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
 1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Investment Projects and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, 
provided, however, that notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement, payments for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of 
free-limit Sub-loans may be made out of the Special Account before the Bank shall have 
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect thereof. Such expenditures, 
however, shall qualify as eligible expenditures only if the Bank shall subsequently 
authorize such withdrawals; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $8,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reason-ably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
Page  12
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5
Modifications of the General Conditions
For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows:
a.
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
b.
The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01: 
"21. The term 'Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement' has the 
meaning set forth 
in paragraph (j) of Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement."
 
c.
The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. 
Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set forth 
at the end of Section 6.03 are  deleted and the following is substituted therefor: 
"or (e) by the date specified in subparagraph 3(c) of Schedule 1 to the 
Financial 
Intermediaries Project Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect 
of any portion of the 
Loan: (i) have received no applications or requests 
permitted under subparagraphs (a) 
or (b) of said para-graph; or (ii) have 
denied any such applications or requests, the 
Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower and Guarantor, terminate the right to submit such 
applications or 
Page  13
approvals or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case 
may 
be, with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."
