FILE COPY
Report No. 1292-ECT
Appraisal of the Alexandria
Water Supply Project Egypt
February 8, 1977
Water Supply and Sewerage Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
U
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



APPRAISAL OF
THE ALEXANDRIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
EGYPT
CURRENCY
1 Egyptian Pound (LE) = 100 piastres =.1000 millimes
EQUIVALENTS
Official Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                US$2.56 or SDR 2.118
1 US Dollar                       =                  LE 0.391
Parallel Market Rate
Until February 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                US$1.70
1 US Dollar                       =                  LE 0.59
From February to May 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)             =                  US$1.56
1 US Dollar                                          LE 0.64
From May 21, 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                US$1.47
1 US Dollar                       =                  LE 0.68
From December 1, 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                US$1.43
1 US Dollar                                          LE O.70
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
= millimeter (1 millimeter = 0.039 inches)
cm                   = centimeter (1 centimeter = 0.39 inches)
m                    = meter (1 meter = 3.28 feet)
km                   - kilometer (lkilometer = 0.62 miles)
km2                  - square kilometer (1 km2   247.1 acres)
m3                   = cubic meter (1 m3 = 264.2 US gallons)
m3/day               - cubic meter per day (1 m3/day = 264.2 US gallons per day)
i/hr                 = meter per hour (m/hr - 3.28 feet per hour)
lcd                  = liters per capita per day (1 lcd - 0.26 US gallons
per capita per day)
lbs/in2              = pounds per square inch 1 lb/sq in = 0.0703 kilograms
per square centimeter)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Glossary of Abbreviations
AWA         - The Alexandria Water General Authority
USAID       -  United States Agency for International Development
WHO         -  World Health Organization
MHR         -  Ministry of Housing and Reconstruction
GOSSD       -  General Organisation for Sewerage and Sanitary
Drainage
GOPW        -  General Organisation for Potable Water
AWA's Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
This document has a rtricted distribution sd my be ud by ri#nu o* it the pfIorman
of their oMcial duties. Its contnts may not otlmwwU be discioed without World Dak authiotion.






APPRAISAL OF
THE ALEXANDRIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
EGYPT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .........................i-..
I.    INTRODUCTION          .......................................... .                    I
II.    SECTOR  .............................................................                 I
A.    Background  ...........................................                        1
B.    Water Resources  ........ .............  ...............                       I
C.    Water Supply  ......          .................... ............                2
D.    Sewerage  .......           .......................... .                       2
E.    Constraints and Sector Policies  ...................                           3
III.    THE PROJECT AREA  .......................................                             3
A.    General                ...........................................             3
B.    Existing Water Supply Facilities  .............                .....           4
C.    Studies of Future Requirements and Operations    .....                         5
D.    Wastewater Disposal ............            ...................                6
IV.    THE PROJECT          ............................................                     6
A.    Objectives of the Project  ....               .....................            6
B.    Project Description  ......................... ..........                      7
C.    Cost Estimates  ......            ........................ .                   7
D.    Loan Amount  .......................................                           9
E.    Implementation  .................           .. .................               9
F.    Disbursements  .....................................                          10
V.    THE BORROWER  ...........................................                           11
A.    General  ...........................................                          11
B.    Management,  Organization Structure and Staffing   ...                       11
C.    Accounts  ..........................................                          12
D.    Audit  ...........................................................           13
E.    Insurance  ......          ...................................               13
This report was prepared and written by Mr. R.G. MacWilliam (Sanitary
Engineer), Mr. G. Heyland (Financial Analyst), and Mr. K. Thomas (Financial
Analyst), with the assistance of Mr. V. Nwaneri (Economist) and Mr. A.
Banerjee (Technical Assistant).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                              Page No.
VI.   FINANCE ................ o. ***** **** * * **  ......... *.* ....   13
A.   Present Financial Position  ......*         ................  13
B.   Financing Plan . ................................ ...         14
C.   Tariffs ...........................................           15
D.   Future Performance ............ .......... ............       16
VII.   JUSTIFICATION ............................................ o............  17
A.   Environmental Impact and Health Benefits ..........           17
B.   General Objectives ..........  ........... *  ......... .     17
C.   Demand .........................................................  18
D.   Least Cost Solution            ...............................  18
E.   Economic Analysis  oo.o ..... . . .  .. ... ...... .* .....   18
F.   Risks  ........  o.............     ......... .    .....      19
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS ................. ............. . ........          19
LIST OF ANNEXES
1. Sector Organization
2- Description of Alexandria Water Supply Facilities
3. Forecast of Population, Connections, Consumption and Production
4. Project Description
5. Construction Schedule
6. Key Indicators
7. Schedule of Disbursements
8. Cost Estimates
9. AWA - Organization
10.  Suggested Terms of Reference for a Management Systems Study
11.  Tariffs
12.  AWA:  Financial Statements, 1972-85
13.  Assumptions for Financial Projections
14.  Incremental Economic Cost of Water in Alexandria
LIST OF MAPS
IBRD 12323 - Alexandria Water Supply
IBRD 12325 - Alexandria Water Supply Project



APPRAISAL OF
THE ALEXANDRIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
EGYPT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Alexandria is Egypt's second largest city with a population of 2.4
million and an expected future growth rate of 2.7% per annum. It is a highly
commercial and industrialized city and a major tourist resort. Alexandria's
water supply facilities, using Nile water supplied by Canals, were operated
and administered by a local private company, founded in 1879; in 1968 it was
converted into the "Alexandria Water General Authority" (AWA), a public sec-
tor organization. In recent years AWA also assumed responsibility for water
supply to the coastal western desert about 300 km from Alexandria. AWA's
treatment capacity has been unable to keep pace with demand, and currently,
facilities are operating at about 30% above their design capacity. This con-
tinuous and growing overload carries considerable risks for the maintenance
of a safe and reliable service at optimum water quality. Furthermore, essen-
tial maintenance of the installations cannot be carried out owing to the need
for uninterrupted production from the overloaded plants.
ii.       To help alleviate Alexandria's increasing water requirement until
about 1990, a project is proposed for partial Bank financing representing the
first Bank group assistance to Egypt in this sector. The main component of
the project would add 350,000 m3/day of treatment capacity to help eventually
raise AWA's combined production capacity to 1,150,000 m3/day. A long term
(to year 2000) Master Plan for Water and Sewerage in Alexandria has also been
initiated by the Government with aid from USAID and studies will begin soon.
iii.      The proposed investments would include (i) the extension of three
existing treatment plants; (ii) the construction of a new one; (iii) instal-
lation of trunk water mains and booster stations; (iv) renewals of operational
equipment; (v) the purchase of self propelled water barges to supply ships in
Alexandria port; and (vi) procurement of trucks and operational vehicles, and
water meters. The co-ordination and implementation of the project and the
whole AWA program would be the responsibility of a project unit assisted by
consulting engineers for final design and preparation of tender documents.
Consultant services for training AWA's staff in operational techniques will
also be provided.
iv.       The total cost of the Bank assisted project is assessed at LE 47.5
million (US$121.7 million) with an estimated foreign exchange component of
LE 21.9 million (US$56 million). The proposed loan of US$56 million would
cover 100% of this foreign exchange cost (46% of the total cost). The
remainder would be financed by Government loans and AWA's internal cash
generation.



- ii -
v.        Goods and services to be financed under the project would be pro-
cured through international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank
Group's guidelines. Domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preference of
15% or the actual customs duty, whichever is lower. First equipment and
materials deliveries are expected in 1978 and the bulk of construction
works would occur during 1979 and 1980. Project completion is scheduled for
1981.
vi.       The proposed loan would be made to AWA with the guarantee of the
Arab Republic of Egypt.  AWA's management is experienced and dedicated, al-
though it has some difficulties in promoting and rewarding suitable staff to
improve its overall performance. Measures to help correct this constraint are
proposed in the project.
vii.      AWA's financial performance was sound until 1971 but from 1972 the
low tariffs established in 1963 could no longer cover increasing costs. Par-
tial rises in tariffs for some groups of customers in 1976 were insufficient
to bridge the gap. Immediate further increases in tariffs are, therefore,
required for AWA to regain its financial viability. Further gradual adjust-
ments to achieve an average revenue at the level of the long-term average
incremental costs would be required, while maintaining a progressive rate
structure, which enables poorer citizens to obtain a piped water supply.
viii.     Agreement having been reached during negotiations-on the principal
issues, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$56 million to AWA for 20
years including a 4-1/2 years grace period.



APPRAISAL OF
THE ALEXANDRIA W4ATER SUPPLY PROJECT
EGYPT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Alexandria Water General Authority (AWA) has requested Bank fi-
nancing for foreign exchange expenditures of a project designed to help expand
and improve the Alexandria water supply system. The proposed works, estimated
to cost US$121.7 million, include the provision of additional treatment plant
capacity, the replacement of obsolete equipment and the provision of essential
maintenance equipment to improve operations. The proposed loan of US$56 mil-
lion would finance 100% of the estimated foreign exchange requirement and would
be made to AWA with the guarantee of the Arab Republic of Egypt. This would
be the first Bank Group lending to Egypt in this sector.
1.02      Following a Bank identification mission in November 1975, AWA pre-
pared a Feasibility Study reviewing the existing water supply situation and
outlining the need for future expansion.
1.03      The feasibility study was reviewed in March 1976 and the project
was appraised in May 1976 by a mission consisting of Messrs. R. MacWilliam,
Sanitary Engineer, (Chief of Mission) and G. Heyland, Financial Analyst.
II. SECTOR
A. Background
2.01      Most of Egypt's population of about 37 million, which is estimated
to grow at 2.5% per annum , and most of the country's economic activity, is
concentrated from Cairo to the Delta, an area which accounts for less than
4% of the country's land area of 1 million km2. Cairo, Egypt's capital, is
the largest city of the country with a population of about 7.5 million.
Alexandria, the second largest city, has 2.4 million inhabitants.
B. Water Resources
2.02      The predominant source of water to Egypt is the Nile River, which
provides an assured supply of some 55 billion m3 of water each year. Increas-
ing use of water by different sectors of the economy is, however, moving



-2-
Egypt towards a situation where a lack of adequate water supply will not only
inhibit economic growth but, if allowed to continue, will also endanger the
health of the population. The Government has therefore requested the Bank to
act as executing agency for a UNDP-financed Master Plan for Water Resource
Development in Egypt. This Master Plan will be prepared within the long-term
perspective of Egypt's social and economic development over the next 25 years,
but will be designed also to give recommendations on short-term policy and
investment issues.
C. Water Supply
2.03      Treated and filtered water is estimated by Government sources to be
available to approximately 80% of the urban population and 20% - 25% of the
rural population. Potable water is drawn from two sources; either artesian
wells. or directly from the Nile and irrigation canals. South of Cairo, arte-
sian water is usually of good quality although sometimes containing iron and
manganese salts. To the north of Cairo artesian water is characteristically
brackish and requires blending with sweeter surface water. Artesian water in
the coastal areas of the Delta is generally not suitable for human consump-
tion, and communities depend entirely on surface water.
2.04      Provision of drinking water in Egypt is the responsibility of four
public institutions. In Cairo and Alexandria separate Authorities, which com-
menced operations as private utility companies in the last century, are now
responsible to the local Governors. The Canal Zone cities are served by the
Suez Canal Authority. Water in all other Governorates, both urban and rural,
is the responsibility of the General Organisation for Potable Water (GOPW).
(For further details see Annex 1). The provision of additional water to
Alexandria is recognized as urgent and was included in Egypt's five-year plan.
Other cities face similar needs but Alexandria is the only one, at present,
with a feasible project in a sufficiently advanced state of preparation.
D. Sewerage
2.05      The responsibility for the provision of sewerage services through-
out Egypt lies with the General Organisation for Sewerage and Sanitary Drain-
age (GOSSD). The GOSSD designs and constructs sewerage and drainage facili-
ties in all Egyptian towns and carries out the maintenance of the Alexandria
and Cairo sewerage systems. Its technical services are made available to the
Governorates which operate and maintain provincial sewerage and drainage
systems. In addition to Cairo, Alexandria and the Canal Zone cities, 10 major
cities in Lower Egypt and four major cities in Upper Egypt have sewerage sys-
tems. Wastewater systems without any form of treatment facilities exist in a
further 12 major Delta towns.



- 3 -
E. Constraints and Sector Policies
2.06      The preliminary findings of a joint IBRD/WHO Water Supply and
Sewerage Sector Survey, undertaken in July 1976, are that central government
planning and program implementation has largely stifled local accountability
and initiative. Water tariffs are low and the revenues generated in any case
revert to the central budget from which funds for new construction and operating
costs must in turn be obtained. As a result of this approach staff morale is
low, there is no premium on efficiency, little incentive for financial disci-
pline and steady decline in service. The Government's target of providing a
comprehensive social water service remains unrealized while the poor use
polluted water, buy expensive water from vendors or make large investments in
handpumps and storage. In the sewerage service similar constraints apply.
2.07      The Bank's objective, in dealing with present constraints, should
be to promote autonomy in the funding, management and operations of the water
and sewerage facilities. The proposed project in Alexandria would demonstrate
the advantages accruing to the introduction of improved management and operating
techniques, better financial planning and the development of an organizational
structure responsive to acute service needs of local inhabitants and would
encourage the establishment of further autonomous public utilities in Egypt.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. General
3.01      The area to benefit from the proposed project includes the City of
Alexandria as well as the adjacent Governorates of Behera and Mersa Matruh.
Alexandria, founded by Alexander the Great in 332 BC., is the second largest
city in Egypt. It is the nation's principal seaport and a most important
industrial center. Strung out 25 kilometers along a narrow strip of Mediter-
ranean coastline., it is the country's busiest and most popular holiday resort
with excellent road and rail connections to Cairo, 180 kilometers distant.
The climate is equable with a temperature variation of 150C - 250C and an
annual rainfall of only 150 mm - 200 mm. The city is heavily residential,
houses a university with all major faculties, supports important industrial
activity and is a hive of business and commercial life.
3.02      The present population served by AWA is approximately 2,600,000
and is expected to increase by 2.7% per annum in Alexandria and by 2.5% per
annum in the areas of the adjacent governorates supplied. Population is
accommodated mostly in large apartment dwellings with a small, but increasing,
percentage in low-cost housing in new development areas. It is estimated that
one million people visit the city during the summer season for a stay of



-4-
several weeks. The city and governorate area is 2,680 km2 with a density of
896 persons/km2; the adjacent Governorates of Behera and Mersa Matruh, in
contrast, have densities of 244 and 0.5 respectively.
3.03      Industries settled in the area include cotton ginning, cotton seed
oil, leather tanning, metal works, paper, soap, textile manufacture, footware,
cigarettes, brewing, soft drinks and foodstuffs. Future expansion allows for
oil refining, tire production, iron making, port developmet and the establish-
ment of a free trade zone. Physical planning of all development is ostensibly
under the aegis of the Governor but policy and much of the thrust comes from
Government's central planners concerned with the promotion of economic growth.
3.04      Efforts are now being made to develop the tourist potential to the
west of Alexandria where there are many attractive beaches. Also rural growth
continues in the area with the development of irrigated land fed by the exten-
sion of the El Nasr canal from the Noubaria canal. In this respect a Bank
financed project for fruit and vegetables development approved in 1976
(LN 1181-EGT) is of importance because water for this and the proposed proj-
ect is drawn from the El Nasr canal. These developments in the adjacent
Governorates of Behera and Mersa Matruh are integrated with the provision
of water from the Alexandria water supply system.
B. Existing Water Supply Facilities
3.05      The existing water supply facilities are detailed in Annex 1 and
shown on Maps IBRD 12323 and 12325.
3.06      The AWA's source water is obtained from the Mamoudia and Noubaria
Canals fed from the Rosetta branch of the Nile. It supplies treated potable
water to some 2.6 million inhabitants and also meets the requirements of in-
dustry and shipping. The Authority's area of supply includes the Governorate
and City of Alexandria and extends 300 km west to Mersa Matruh and 70 km south
into the adjacent Governorate of Behera. In Behera 4% of the population is
served and in Mersa Matruh Governorate 80%.
3.07      The AWA delivers water by pumping through about 2000 km of water
mains from five treatment plants with a combined rated capacity of 550,000
m3/day. These plants, however, are consistently overloaded by as much as 32%,
on average, and their general appearance is poor. They suffer from a chronic
lack of maintenance, the control displays and recorders are inoperative, flow
regulators are disconnected and much equipment is obsolete and long overdue
for replacement. Despite these defects, drinking water of acceptable, but
declining quality is being produced daily to meet demand. The distribution
system is being extended at the rate of 30 - 40 km each year.
3.08      An unusual feature of the AWA's operations is the supply of water
to Mersa Matruh (estimated population 75,000) 300 kilometers to the west of
Alexandria and the coastal western desert area. The original supply line
was provided during World War II to the historic battle site at El Alamein



and thereafter extended to Mersa Matruh. This is now being augmented by a
250 mm - 350 mm pipeline with 12 pumping stations running parallel and cross-
connected at El Alamein.
3.09      The AWA has been labouring under increasing difficulty to meet
rising water demand due to economic expansion and population growth in the
service area. Inability to generate more revenues from its customers and
increasing dependence on Government-allocated funds for operations have fur-
ther crippled its effectiveness. Insufficient funds have been made available
for the timely construction of new treatment capacity or refurbishing the old.
Some of the more elderly filter units should have been retired but are still
at work as they must contribute to total production. Water plants cannot be
adequately maintained because there is no spare capacity when units are taken
out of service for any length of time. To remedy this situation the AWA has
developed a renewal and expansion program aimed at raising water production
by 600,000 m3/day to a total of 1,150,000 m3/day. This, on projected water
demand, would meet needs to about 1990.
3.10      As part of this program AWA is carrying out a wholly Government-
financed project which would add 250,000 m3/day. This includes the extension
of three existing plants at Rond Point, Manshia and Mariout. It would also
include renewing parts of the old desert pipeline and makce overdue structural
repairs.
3.11      Present consumption of water averages about 110 lcd for domestic
consumers and 50 lcd equivalent used by industry and other large consumers,
such as Goverrment institutions; details of consumption are in Annex 2. It
is estimated however that about 38% of total water production is unaccounted
for mainly due to inaccurate or inoperative meters, theft and unquantified
system loss. Water meters of up to 1-1/2" diameter of Egyptian manufacture
have been installed in recent years, but are of poor quality. During nego-
tiations agreement was reached with AWA that a leak detection and waste
reduction study will be undertaken and that the findings will be reviewed
with the Government and the Bank within twelve months of loan signing.
3.12      The AWA agreed during appraisal to make an immediate start on a
study of the adequacy of the existing metering and further agreed during
negotiations that this would be completed and reported upon to the Government
and the Bank not later than June 30, 1977.
C. Studies of Future Requirements and Operations
3.13      The Feasibility Report prepared by AWA for the proposed project
focused on providing water for the short term needs (up to 1990) by raising
production capacity and renewing obsolete equipment. A USAID financed study
will, however, review Alexandria's water needs in the period beyond that
catered for by the project and help prepare a Master Plan formulating these
requirements to the year 2000.



-6-
D. Wastewater Disposal
i-n common with other coastal communities in Egypt, Alexandria has
for long discharged its wastewater to the sea at the most convenient points.
Part of T'-e discharge, however, drains south into Lake Mariout from a dividing
ridge on which the city is partly built. The main wastewater sea outfall is
at Ras el Tin and others are located at headlands and beaches along the coast-
line. In summer attempts are made to minimize beach pollution by sealing the
beach outfalls and diverting the lower flows at that time to Ras el Tin.
3.15      To alleviate the worsening pollution of Lake Mariout, a shallow lake
with a maximum depth of 0.70 m, a new sewage works of Czechoslovakian design
has been completed with a treatment capacity of 80,000 m3/day to the east of
the city. This achieves reduction in pollutants of about 70% but it is al-
ready working near capacity. A second plant is under construction to the
west. Meanwhile untreated domestic and industrial sewage continues to be
discharged to Lake Mariout.
3.16      The central Government has now decided to make a comprehensive study
of the sewerage problems of Alexandria and is expected soon to appoint a firm
of consultants to prepare a Feasibility Report which will identify high prior-
ity works and also long term investments needs. Alternatives likely to be
considered are (i) additional wastewater treatment capacity; (ii) sea dis-
persion by long outfall with or without treatment or with partial treatment;
(iii) selective lagooning of Lake Mariout with surface aeration; and (iv)
long distance pumping to the arid western desert for land disposal.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives of the Project
4.01      The proposed Bank project is designed to provide an additional
350,000 m3/day of treatment capacity and other goods and services to (i) help
AWA meet future water demand and overcome a water deficit now only being over-
come at the expense of water quality, (ii) strengthen the distribution system,
(iii) provide equipment and vehicles for the improvement of operations and
maintenance, (iv) provide reliable water meters for improved billing and re-
duce unaccounted-for water to 25% of production. The proposed project would
complement AWA's ongoing project (para 3.10) to make up the total expansion
program of 600,000 m3/day (para 3.09). The extra supply would serve an
additional 1.4 million inhabitants and provide water for new industries.
Improvements in operational and management techniques would serve as a pat-
tern for water supply operations elsewhere in Egypt as described in para 2.07.



B. Project Description
4.02      Project details are given in Annex 3 and the major elements are
shown on Maps IBRD 12323 and 12325. The principal components are summarized
as follows:
(a) Water Treatment Plants
The extensions of existing plants at Siouf, Forn el Geraya and
Maamoura and the construction of a completely new plant at El
Nasr amounting to a total capacity 350,000 m3/day. All plants
would include clear water storage, buildings and ancillary
equipment.
(b) Distribution
Provision of about 73 km of trunk water main and the construc-
tion of 3 booster stations in the distribution system.
(c) Renewals and Operational Equipment Supply
(i) Equipment renewals at 5 existing water treatment plants
and at 3 booster stations. Additional raw water pump-
ing capacity and standby generators.
(ii) Provision of workshop, construction, communications and
accounting equipment and the supply of 4 self-propelled
water barges.
(iii) Supply of vehicles and trucks and about 35,000 water
meters of various diameters.
(d) Consultant Services and associated training.
C. Cost Estimates
4.03      Cost estimates for the project are provided in detail in Annex 8
and are summarized below:



Item                   LE Million                  US$ Million          % of Pro-lect
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total          Cost
Water Treat-
ment Plants      8.61      6.44    15.05   22.03    16.50    38.53          31.6
Trunk Water
Mains            4.86      5.99    10.85   12.43    15.33    27.76          22.8
Booster
Stations          .34       .30       .64     .87       .78      1.65        1.3
Replacement
Mechanical
and Electri-
cal Equipment    .54        .55     1.09    1.39       1.40      2.79        2.3
Standby
Generators        .09       .12       .21      .24      .30       .54        0.5
Construction
and Works
Equipment         .17       .33       .50      .43      .85      1.28        1.1
Water barges       .22       .08       .30      .56      .20       .76        0.6
Office
Equipment         .08       .12       .20     .20       .31       .51        0.4
Vehicles and
Trucks            .20       .30       .50      .51      .77      1.28        1.1
Water Meters       .17       .33       .50      .43       .85     1.28        1.1
Base Cost
Sub Total      15.28    14.56    29.84   39.09    37.29    76.38           62.8
Land Acquisition  .29         -        .29      .75       -        .75        0.6
Physical
Contingencies   2.29       2.18     4.47    5.87       5.59    11.46         9.4
Consultant
Services
and Training    1.06       0.27      1.33    2.71      0.70      3.41        2.8
Sub Total      18.92    17.01    35.93   48.42    43.58    92.00           75.6
Price Contin-
gencies          6.75      4.86    11.61   17.29    12.42    29.71          24.4
Total         25.67    21.87    47.54   65.71    56.00   121.71         100.0
4.04      The overall cost estimates are considered reasonable and are based
on unit construction and equipment prices for similar work already being under-
taken by the AWA. Foreign exchange costs reflect the high import component
for the type of equipment required for the project. Base costs shown in the
above table have been adjusted to reflect project costs at the end of 1976.



- 9 -
Since design is based on adequate but preliminary surveys and soil investiga-
tions and final detailed design has still to be completed, an overall figure
of 15% has been allowed for physical contingencies. To provide for inflation
until the expected date of completion price escalation rates of 8% for 1977
through 1979 and 7% thereafter were assumed for equipment and 12% and 10% for
civil works respectively.
D. Loan Amount
4.05      The foreign cost of the project would be financed by a Bank loan
of US$56 million equivalent representing 46% of the total project cost and
100% of the estimated foreign exchange component. The proposed Bank loan
would be made to AWA for 20 years including 4-1/2 years grace. The Arab
Republic of Egypt will guarantee the loan. The terms of the proposed loan are
in accordance with the current Bank guidelines on loans to Egypt and are also
appropriate on project grounds.
E. Implementation
Status of Engineering
4.06      Design of the water treatment works has not yet started.  It is
dependent on the establishment of performance specifications by AWA and the
evaluation of equipment suppliers' bids in accordance therewith. A team of
AWA engineers has already been assigned responsibility for project design and
execution, but this group will require consultant assistance in preparing
specifications, bid documents and in the evaluation of bids. Accordingly 48
man months' of foreign consultancy for this purpose has been provided as a
project component. Assurances were obtained from AWA during negotiations that
suitably qualified consultants will be employed within five months of loan
signing to assist in preparation of tender documents and with bid evaluation.
Procurement
4.07      All equipment and civil works would be procured in accordance
with Bank guidelines and contracts will be grouped to attract international
competitive bidding. Only small contracts of US$10,000 or less for items of
equipment, material or supplies to be compatible with existing equipment, or
items which because of their specialized nature and for reasons of economy are
normally procured without international competitive bidding, may be awarded
to reliable suppliers after having obtained price quotations from, wherever
practical, at least three suppliers. The aggregate expenditure for items so
procured would, however, not exceed US$300,000. All major items of equipment
and pipes are expected to be imported. Domestic preference of 15%, or the
customs duty, whichever is lower, will be allowed to local manufacturers.



- 10 -
AWA ecuipment imports are presently subject to combined customs and import
duties of up to 50%. There are about 6 construction enterprises in Egypt
capable of executing the civil works components in the project and these are
expected to be competitive and win the bulk of the awards.
Constructton Schedule
4.08      The schedule for design, procurement and construction is shown in
Annex 5. All major items of equipment will be purchased abroad and delivery
will be phased in accordance with the civil works tendering and construction
program. First materials deliveries would take place in 1978 and the bulk of
the construction would occur during 1979 and 1980. The entire project would
be completed in 1981.
Land Acquisition and Water Rights
4.09      AWA already has title over most of the land it requires for the
expansion of its facilities. For the Forn el Geraya water treatment plant
expansion AWA is now in negotiations with the Ministy of Transport and Com-
munications for the purchase of adjacent property. During negotiations
assurances were obtained from AWA that land required for the construction of
treatment plant and facilities included in the project will be acquired in
accordance with the construction schedule.
4.10      The Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation is responsible for build-
ing, expanding znd maintaining the general purpose raw water supply canals in
Egypt. AWA has guaranteed abstraction rights from the canals it now uses and
has already discussed and agreed with the Ministry how its future requirements
will be met. The supply to the El Nasr plant will be obtained from a canal
presently being extended for irrigation and general use.
Monitoring Criteria
4.11      The project will be monitored by performance and progress indicators
which will also be useful to AWA's management in controlling operations. A
suggested list is shown in Annex 6 and was reviewed with AWA during negotia-
tions. During negotiations assurances were obtained that AWA will establish
and maintain such statistical and other systems as may be necessary to produce
the agreed indicators and will report the relevant information to the Bank
within 3 months of the end of each quarter. Reporting would continue for
about five years after project completion.
F. Disbursements
4.12      The proposed Bank loan of US$56 million would be disbursed over
approximately 4-1/2 years as follows:



- 11 -
(a)  Civil works for treatment plants,        30% of total expenditure.
pipelines, etc.
(US$14,400,000)
(b)  Equipment and materials                  100% of foreign exchange ex-
(US$33,600,000)                          penditures.  100% of local
expenditures exfactory and
75% of expenditures for
imported items procured
locally.
(c)  Consultant Services and Training         100% of foreign expenditures
(US$700,000)                             and 80% of total expenditures.
(d)  Unallocated                              Allowance for physical
(US$7,300,000)                           contingencies and price
escalation on this allowance.
The estimated schedule of disbursement is given in Annex 7.  The proposed
closing date would be June 1982. Any savings which might arise would be
cancelled if there were no similar works to which they could be applied.
V. THE BORROWER
A. General
5.01      The project would be carried out by Alexandria Water General Author-
ity (AWA), the borrower. AWA was founded in 1879 as a limited company, and
operated under British management until 1954, when a wholly Egyptian management
took over. It was nationalized in 1961 and constituted a General Authority in
1968, with responsibility for the provision of potable water to consumers in
the Governorates of Alexandria and parts of Behera and Mersa Matruh.
B. Management, Organization Structure and Staffing
5.02      AWA is controlled by a Board of Directors comprising fifteen members.
Not all of these are full-time officials of AWA; the Ministries of Housing and
Reconstruction and of Finance are represented on the Board by their respective
Under-Secretaries of State. Limitations to the Board's authority for the ad-
ministration of AWA are that budgets, capital expenditure plans and tariff
proposals have to be approved by the Governor and the local council of the
Alexandria Governorate.
5.03      Executive management is headed by the Chairman.  Two vice-chairmen
take responsibility for the two main sectors into which AWA is divided: Tech-
nical and Financial/Administration. Technical operations are decentralized



- 12 -
in five operating areas corresponding to the supply areas of the treatment
works. Each area is responsible for its own customer service, billing and
collection. Further details of AWA's organization structure are given in
Annex 9.
5.04      AWA is adequately provided with suitably educated personnel to
fill all its management and supervisory positions. In general, such staff
are recruited through public advertisement; newly-qualified graduate engineers
are, however, presently scarce in Egypt and for these AWA makes application
to the Ministry of Labor. All staff are subject to a six month probation
on appointment. The application of general Government public sector employ-
ment policies, which feature automatic salary progression and limited promo-
tion on the basis of service rather than individual performance, and constrain
an employer's right to dismiss unsatisfactory personnel, has led to staff
dilution at some levels of the organization. As a result, motivation and
morale at these levels are generally low, although there is a core of dedi-
cated and conscientious individuals on whom the maintenance of service mainly
depends and who recognize the need for improved performance. Changes in
public sector employment policies are to be enacted early in 1977 and are
expected to feature an extension of the principle of selective promotion
and extra rewards for good performance. Meanwhile, AWA has established
an annual budget of LE 60,000 for making merit awards to performers. During
negotiations agreement was reached that AWA will continue to select and
appoint its staff in accordance with sound business and good public utility
practice.
5.05      AWA needs to strengthen its techniques of management control and
performance monitoring. The project provides for 24 man-months of consultant
services to design and install such techniques and to train AWA's personnel
in their use. Suggested terms of reference, given in Annex 10, have been
discussed with and broadly accepted by AWA. Agreement was reached during
negotiations that AWA will employ suitably qualified management consultants
upon terms and conditions acceptable to the Government and the Bank to carry
out this component of the project.
C. Accounts
5.06      AWA's accounting procedures conform with the Egyptian National Ac-
counting System, and are able to produce financial statements acceptable to
the Bank. Simple systems of budgeting and costing are also in operation,
and will be further developed as part of the management consultants' assign-
ment provided under the project (pare 5.05). Computer procedures are used
for payroll and stores accounting, and accounting machines for billing; the
remainder of the accounting work is carried out manually. The accounting
machines are obsolescent, and the project includes provision for their replace-
ment with modern equipment. Further mechanization of the accounting process
is not considered justified at present.



- 13 -
D. Audit
5.07      The Authority's accounts are audited twice annually by the Egyptian
Central Organization for Accounting and Audit, an auditor acceptable to the
Bank, and by a private auditor. In addition, AWA's Inspection and Control
Department carries out continuous checks of receipts and disbursements,
billing and inventories.
E. Insurance
5.08      The Authority holds insurances giving reasonable coverage against
risks of theft of money and goods, fire, misappropriation by cashiers and
collectors, and staff liability. Third party liabilities are self-insured;
the funding has been adequate in the past. Since liability to third parties
from water supply activities is limited to property damage by leakage, this
form of coverage appears satisfactory.
VI. FINANCE
A. Present Financial Position
6.01      AWA's financial statements for the years 1973-5 appear in Annex 12
and are explained in Annex 13. AWA incurred operating losses (after depre-
ciation) in these three years. Internally generated cash flow was insuffi-
cient to finance working capital and debt service, and the Authority was
therefore unable to make any contribution to its own capital works program
during these years.
6.02      AWA's equity capital is owned by Government and totalled LE 4.4
million at the end of 1975. Reserves, less accumulated losses, at that date
amounted to LE 1.4 million. Funds to meet AWA's cash deficits have been pro-
vided by Government in the form of loans, which totalled LE 17.0 million at
December 1975. No formal loan agreements have been executed and no repayment
schedule has been determined; interest has, however, been charged at 5% on
all loans with the exception of one interest-free loan of LE 1.3 million.
6.03      At the beginning of the current financial year, the Authority's
debt:equity ratio was 75:25 which, in view of the current level of operating
losses, is clearly an unsatisfactory starting point for a program of invest-
ment involving further substantial loan debt. To establish the Authority on
a sounder basis, and to minimize the tariff increases necessary to cover debt
service during the project construction period, assurances were obtained from
Government during negotiations that it will:



- 14 -
a)   convert into equity AWA's total loan debt at December 31,
1976 (estimated to amount at that time LE 22 million);
b)   contribute to AWA during 1977 such additional sums as
may be required to bring AWA's total equity capital up
to LE 32 million;
c)   waive any interest charges to AWA for 1976.
6.04      A further cause for concern is the high level of Government ac-
counts receivable, which at the end of 1975 represented over two years'
billings to Government departments. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from Government that the existing arrears will be cleared by the end
of 1979, and from 1977 onwards the necessary measures will be enforced to
ensure that Government accounts with AWA are settled promptly.
B. Financing Plan
6.05      The following table shows AWA's total funds requirements for the
period of project construction and the sources from which they would be
met, assuming the rearrangement of AWA's capital structure as described in
para 6.03.
1977-1981
Requirements                                    LE Million   US$ Million       %
Capital Expenditures
Project                                           48            123         67
AWA's ongoing program                             22             56         31
Total Capital Expenditures                          70            179         98
Net Increase in Working Capital                      2              5          2
Total Requirements                                  72            184        100
Sources
Internal Cash Generation                            24             61         33
Less Debt Service                                    8             20         11
16            41         22
Government Equity                                    6             15          8
Proposed Borrowings:
IBRD                                              22             56         31
Government                                        28             72         39
Total Sources                                       72            184        100



- 15 -
6.06      Financial projections (Annex 12) show that on this basis, and given
reasonable tariff increases (para 6.10), AWA will be able to finance over 20%
of construction costs during the project period from internally generated
funds, and the remainder through borrowings. To ensure satisfactory comple-
tion of the project, assurances were obtained from Government during negotia-
tions that a loan of LE 28 million will be granted to AWA; and that Government
will provide any additional funds which may be required by cost overruns which
AWA is not able to meet from internal sources.
C. Tariffs
6.07      Details of AWA's tariff structure and rates are given in Annex 11.
All but about 2% of AWA's subscribers are supplied through meters and unmetered
consumption is negligible. The overall effectiveness of the metering, however,
is in question and adversely affects the collection of revenue (para 3.11).
6.08      In Alexandria Governorate, domestic consumers are charged a prefer-
ential rate of 100 millimes for the first 10 m3 per month (US$0.26 for 2600
US gallons). Domestic consumption above this level, and all non-domestic
consumption, is charged at higher rates. Arbitrary discounts are awarded to
various classes of consumers, including clubs, charities and places of worship.
All consumers pay connection charges based on the cost of connections, and a
monthly meter rental. In the last three years the tariff has been inadequate
to cover operating costs and depreciation; increases proposed by AWA in 1976
to alleviate financial losses were approved only in part by the local legis-
lative authorities. The current average tariff revenue is about 21 millimes/m3
(US$0.20/1,000 gals). An average of not less than 30 millimes/m3 will be re-
quired in 1977 and this will be a condition of loan effectiveness. Further
increases will be required during the project construction period, leading to
an average of 63 millimes/m3 by 1982, representing a doubling of the present
tariff in real terms.
6.09      For supplies within the Governorate of Mersa Matruh, rural consumers
are charged a unit rate which increases with their distance from Alexandria,
the domestic rate in each location being less than the non-domestic. Supplies
to the city of Mersa Matruh are charged in bulk at 140 millimes/m3 (US$1.36/1000
gals) up to 500 m3 per day and 275 millimes/m3 (US$2.67/1000 gals) thereafter.
Total revenues from the Mersa Matruh supply in 1975 approximated LE 80,000
while operating costs (including depreciation) were estimated by AWA at LE
323,000 for that year; when the new pipeline and pumping stations are fully
operational, costs are expected to rise to about LE 850,000 per year. At the
present prices, AWA would incur financial losses on the Mersa Matruh operation
of the order of LE 600,000 annually.
6.10      It is now a matter of urgency, and important for the satisfactory
completion of the project, that AWA should be enabled to achieve a level of
revenue adequate to cover operating costs and debt service. It should also
be able to make a reasonable contribution towards capital expenditures in



- 16 -
the period following completion of the project; these, while probably remain-
ing at a fairly low level in the first few years, are likely to rise again
in the late 1980s as the limit of the capacity provided by the present pro-
ject is approached. Therefore, agreement was reached during negotiations
that AWA will for each fiscal year set its tariff rates for water supply
within the Governorate of Alexandria so that revenues from operations will
provide for:
a)   expenses of operation and maintenance (excluding depre-
ciation), debt service and adequate increases in working
capital; and
b)   a minimum contribution from internal funds towards capital
expenditure amounting to a percentage of the gross value
of fixed assets in operation and under construction of
5% until 1980 and 2% thereafter.
6.11      Agreement was further obtained from the Government that, in respect
of supplies to the City and Governorate of Mersa Matruh, AWA will receive com-
pensation for any shortfall between revenues and the costs of operation and
maintenance of the pipelines and pumping stations. AWA, in addition to its
general obligation to minimize unaccounted-for water (para 3.11), specifically
agreed to institute measures to reduce waste on the Mersa Matruh pipelines and
so hold down the amount of compensation needed.
6.12      The structure of the tariffs appears broadly reasonable in so far as
it provides for a basic minimum of domestic consumption at "lifeline" rates
while charging higher rates for large consumers. This structure will be
reviewed under the USAID study discussed in Annex 1, para 4. Assurances were
obtained from AWA that, apart from the adjustment of rates within the existing
structure which will be required from time to time to meet the cash generation
criteria (para 6.10), any changes in the tariff structure will continue to
encourage rational use of water through higher rates for consumption beyond
normal domestic needs.
D. Future Performance
6.13      AWA's projected financial statements through 1985 appear at Annex
12, and are explained in Annex 13. They show that, on the basis of tariffs
set as described above, AWA will move into operating surplus in 1977 and can
expect to develop a rate of return on net fixed assets in operation of about
7% by 1985.
6.14      The conversion of AWA's existing loan debt into equity and the
financing plan described at para 6.05 will enable the Authority to complete
its immediate expansion program while maintaining a debt:equity ratio which
only slightly exceeds 50:50 at the maximum (1981). Cash flow is adequate
to support the envisaged level of borrowing, and debt service is covered at
least 1.5 times by net cash generation from operations except in 1982 (1.4
times). At negotiations, assurances were obtained from AWA that no further



- 17 -
loan debt would be incurred unless debt service were covered at least 1.5
times by operational revenues. The net cash flow is expected to stabilize
after 1982 at about LE 2 million per annum, after allowing for the anticipated
level of minor capital works and replacement expenditures. This would enable
AWA to make provision for partial self-financing of its next major capital
program, expected to be needed in the late 1980s. Alternatively, sewerage
feasibility studies (para 3.16) may ultimately recommend that the water and
sewerage functions in Alexandria should be administered jointly; if this were
agreed, funds generated by AWA could also be made available for investment in
the improvement of wastewater facilities. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained from AWA that it will not embark on any capital projects (other
than those contained in the expansion program) involving annual expenditures
in excess of $2.5 million (approximately LE 1 million) unless adequate finan-
cial resources are available.
VII. JUSTIFICATION
A. Environmental Impact and Health Benefits
7.01      The AWA is fully aware that it is falling behind in the race to
meet consumer demand and is conscious of the fact that the quality of water
it delivers is steadily deteriorating. While disinfection techniques are
still adequate to ensure safe drinking water, a breakdown would have serious
health consequences for 2.6 million inhabitants and becomes more likely as
equipment is pushed to, and beyond, the limits of its endurance. The project
would correct this situation and enable the AWA to maintain acceptable water
quality and supply the needs of a growing population, of which about 300,000
would be the urban poor.
7.02      Increased water consumption will add to the wastewater disposal
problems of Alexandria but this matter is being actively studied with a view
to identifying high priority works (para 3.16) to alleviate the worst aspects
of pollution at Lake Mariout and the city's bathing beaches. Meanwhile work
is proceeding on the construction of a second sewage treatment works (para
3.15) in Alexandria to further reduce pollution in Lake Mariout. Consultants
to the Ministry of Housing are expected to identify the most economic and ef-
fective long term solution for comprehensive wastewater disposal and focus on
the investments required.
B. General Objectives
7.03      Dealing comprehensively with the whole water cycle in a community
is a concept that is finding increasing acceptance everywhere and may have
particular relevance for Alexandria. Improved management and operating tech-
niques generated by the project in AWA could be applied in helping to solve
the present problems of the wastewater management in Alexandria. The possi-
bility exists for financing investments by a cross flow of funds between the



- 18 -
two operations and the development of compatible tariff policies. It is
anticipated that these approaches will be fully explored in a proposed USAID
financed study which will review water and sewerage tariff structures in
Egypt's major cities.
C. Demand
7.04      Projections of population are discussed in Annex 3 and illustrated
on Attachment 1 of the same Annex. About 2.6 million inhabitants are now re-
ceiving an average of 110 lcd of water in the AWA's area of supply; 92% in
Alexandria and 8% in the adjacent Governorates. Future domestic requirement
is estimated on population growth (2.7% p.a. in Alexandria, 2.5% p.a. else-
where) and a modest rise in personal water consumption of about 2% p.a. On
this basis population is expected to increase by 46% to 3.8 million in 1980
and reach nearly 5.0 million by year 2000 when the domestic requirement would
approximate 170 lcd. In estimating plant requirements allowance has been
made for a phased reduction in the unaccounted for water to 25% of production
by 1985/86. Non domestic water use is now 145,000 m3/day of and is estimated
to rise by about 5% p.a. to a requirement of 280,000 m3/day by 1990. Any
significant underestimate in non-domestic demand would merely advance the
date of future treatment plant construction shown required by 1991.
D. Least Cost Solution
7.05      The alternative methods of supplying Alexandria's water require-
ments - desalted seawater or underground sources - are both uneconomic and
impractical. The proven use of fresh water from the Nile which has served
Egypt for centuries remains the best solution. In the case of Mersa Matruh
however further economic studies (para 3.13) may reach different conclusions
but meanwhile the use of the existing investments in pipelines would be
maximized.
E. Economic Analysis
7.06      Ideally, the economic justification of the project would rest on
a comparison of the economic benefits with the costs. The benefits would
include medical and hospitalization costs attributable to waterborne infection
and inadequate hygiene which would be saved as a result of the improved water
supply afforded by the project, and the consequential gains in productive
man-days thereby secured. Unfortunately, statistics to support such calcula-
tions are not available. The prices consumers pay for their supplies cannot
satisfactorily be used as a surrogate for the value of benefit they receive,
since willingness to pay can only be demonstrated at the present level of
tariff, which would produce a negative rate of return and so merely confirm



- 19 -
that it will need to be substantially increased in real terms (para 6.08). No
meaningful measurement of benefit can therefore be made, and a rate of return
cannot be calculated.
7.07      The incremental economic costs of water in Alexandria can, however,
be computed with more certainty; the calculations are described in Annex 14.
The proposed tariff corresponds fairly closely to long run average incremental
cost at a discount rate of approximately 10%, and is therefore reasonably
efficient in terms of cost recovery and resource allocation.
F. Risks
7.08      Measures to be taken to ensure project completion are those normally
found in a typical water supply project. The technical design content of
the project is similar to work already completed by AWA, and with consultant
assistance, implementation should pose no major problem. The AWA is a long
established organization which, in the past, has shown that it can perform
effectively and the training and control methods to be introduced through
the project will assist in restoring AWA's effectiveness. The organization's
core of dedicated staff are considered capable of learning and implementing
the techniques to be introduced and consequently the risks of not achieving
the project goals are judged as medium.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached that:
(a) AWA will undertake a leak detection study and review
the findings with the Government and the Bank with
12 months of loan signing (para 3.11);
(b) AWA will complete a study of the adequacy of existing
metering and report to the Bank and the Government on
the results of the study not later than June 30, 1977
(para 3.12);
(c) AWA will within five months of loan signing, employ
suitably qualified consultants to assist in the prepara-
tion of tender documents and bid evaluation (para 4.06);
(d) AWA will acquire land required for the construction of
treatment plant and facilities included in the project
in accordance with the construction schedule (para 4.09);
(e) AWA will maintain the necessary statistics to provide
the performance indicators required for project monitor-
ing, and will report them to the Bank within 3 months
of the end of each quarter (para 4.11);



- 20 -
(f) AWA will continue to select and appoint its staff in
accordance with sound business and good public utility
practice (para 5.04);
(g) AWA will employ suitably qualified consultants to design
and install improved management control and performance
monitoring techniques in accordance with terms of reference
to be agreed with the Government and the Bank (para 5.05);
(h) Government will, by conversion of existing loan debt
and by additional contributions, bring AWA's total
equity up to LE 32 million by the end of 1977; and
will waive interest charges for 1976 (para 6.03);
(i) Government will take all necessary action to ensure
prompt payment by Government entities, for water
supplied by AWA, and to settle existing arrears by
December 31, 1979 (para 6.04);
(j) Government will provide adequate funds to AWA
for project completion (para 6.06);
(k) AWA will set tariffs for water supply in the Governorate
of Alexandria to meet appropriate cash generation criteria
(para 6.10);
(1) AWA will receive compensation for any shortfall between
revenues for water supplied to the city and Governorate
of M4ersa Matruh and the costs of providing the supplies;
AWA will take steps to reduce unaccounted-for water on
the Mersa Matruh pipelines (para 6.11);
(m)  any changes to AWA's tariff structure will continue to
encourage rational use of water (para 6.12);
(n) AWA will not incur any new loan debt unless total debt
service is covered at least 1.5 times by revenues from
operations (para 6.14); and
(o)  AWA will not embark on any capital projects (other than
those contained in the expansion program) involving
annual expenditures in excess of $2.5 million unless
adequate financial resources are available (para 6.14).
8.02      Before the loan is made effective, the Bank would be satisfied that
an average tariff of not less than 30 millimes/m3 has been implemented in
the Governorate of Alexandria (para 6.08).
8.03      Agreement having been reached on the various matters outlined
above, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$56 million to AWA,
repayable over 20 years including four and one half years of grace.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THE ALEXANDRIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
EGYPT
Sector Organization
1.        The Ministry of Housing and Reconstruction (MHR) supervises the
agencies responsible for the water supply and sewerage sector. These agen-
cies include:
(i) The General Organisation for Sewerage and Sanitary Drainage
(GOSSD) which is based in Cairo. It designs and constructs
all sewerage facilities throughout Egypt and operates the
systems in Cairo and Alexandria. The municipalities under
the Governors operate and maintain the systems in the other
towns but are supervised by this organisation. Sewerage
services throughout the country are provided without charge
except connection charges of LE 50 but the organisation is
considering introducing charges especially to industry.
(ii)  The General Organisation for Potable Water (GOPW) designs
and constructs water supply facilities throughout Egypt
(except Cairo and Alexandria), and operates most of the
rural facilities. The municipal administrations operate
and maintain the urban facilities once they are installed
by GOPW. These municipalities charge for treated water
at a rate of 20 millimes per m3 except Mersa Matruh Gov-
ernorate where substantially higher rates are applied. In
Mersa Matruh city part of the supply is obtained from de-
salted seawater.
(iii)  The Greater Cairo Water Authority serves the greater Cairo
area (including Helwan) and estimates that about 85% of the
area's population are served by house connections and public
stand-posts. Consumption charges average about 12 millimes
per m3.
(iv) The Alexandria Water General Authority serves the city of
Alexandria, surrounding areas and the coastal western desert
as far as Mersa Matruh.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(v) The Suez Canal Authority serves the Canal cities. Its
facilities were damaged during hostilities and are being re-
constructed by the MHR.
2.        Sector Planning and organization at present are centralized for
sewerage and to a lesser degree for water with MHR. An Advisory Committee of
four members was established in the MHR in August of 1975 for initiating and
coordinating project preparation. In cooperation with the operating authori-
ties this committee prepares studies and projects in the sector and submits
these to the Ministry of Planning for including in the draft 5 Year Plan.
In the current plan the Ministry of Planning forecasts a total expenditure of
LE 250 million for water and LE 103 for sewerage for the plan period 1976-
1980. The total of these funds are tentatively allocated (i) Cairo (LE 142
million); (ii) Alexandria (LE 52 million); (iii) other urban areas (LE 104
million); and (iv) rural water supply (LE 55 million). The Government's
plans for the urban areas during the planning period will be to complete on-
going projects and improve existing facilities which in many cases have de-
teriorated through increasing neglect and consistent overloading. Emphasis
is to be given to improving facilities in the rural areas to serve about 4.5
million people now without access to piped supplies.
3.        With regard to sector policies, the Government seems keen to pro-
mote decentralization by placing more responsibility for the sector on the
shoulders of local institutions. At present the municipalities operate the
urban systems (outside Cairo, Alexandria and the Canal cities) but control
of overall sector activities remains centralized in the MHR. In 1975 the
Government passed a decree that all water and sewerage facilities, located
within the municipalities, legally belong to that municipality and the
elected local bodies (Local Councils) are legally responsible for managing
such facilities. Due to the limited technical and managerial capability of
the local institution and the lack of a revenue earning base for sewerage,
the process of transferring ownership and management from the previously
centralized organization to municipal Governments has not yet started. Im-
plementing this decentralization policy without strengthening the municipal
governments constrains sector development.
4.        Major constraints to sector development arise from the Government's
tariff and employment policies as well as a general shortage of funds for
projects. At present water and sewerage services like many other basic con-
sumption goods in Egypt are subsidized. Public water and sewerage authori-
ties are regarded as providing social services and are, therefore, not re-
quired to be financially viable. Because of Government employment policies
every university graduate is assured of a staff position and is allocated to
public enterprises regardless of need. The Government however is consider-
ing more flexible tariff and employment policies as part of the general
process towards a greater decentralization of decision making in state-owned
enterprises and entities and better economic management. Evidence of this
intent is an agreement for USAID to finance tariff and management studies,
for Cairo, Alexandria and the Canal cities.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
5.        Availability of skilled manpower is less of a problem though many
of Egypt's technicians and engineers are being attracted to other Arab
countries by substantially higher salaries. The Bank's strategy in the
sector should aim at assisting Egypt's rehabilitation and forward planning
of its urban water and sewerage systems by encouraging the Government to
adopt relevant tariff and management employment policies that will facilitate
growth and efficiency. The scope of such organizational and policy changes
as seems appropriate and the role external agencies might play has been ex-
plored by an IBRD/WHO Sector Survey undertaken in July 1976, at the request
of Government and will be the subject of a report. The proposed Alexandria
Water Supply Project is also expected to open the door for changes and serve
as a guide for other cities to follow.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THE ALEXANDRIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
EGYPT
Description of Alexandria Water Supply Facilities
Background
1.        The AWA is currently supplying 2.6 million inhabitants in a supply
area which extends 300 km to the west of the city and some 70 km to the south.
The current average daily production of water delivered to the distribution
system is about 660,000 m3 through five water treatment plants to which an-
other plant will soon be added. The AWA also supplies the needs of industry,
commerce and shipping, amounting to about 22% of production. A minor part of
the supply operations is the delivery of raw water for gardening and fire
fighting purposes in the cotton warehouses of Alexandria. The AWA has about
3,000 employees, a distribution network over 2,050 km in length and some
210,000 registered accounts.
Source Water
2.        The AWA's supply of raw water is obtained from two main canals, the
Mahmoudia and the Noubaria, which are fed by the Rosetta branch of the River
Nile in the delta area. These canals, in addition to supplying human needs,
provide water for irrigation, industry and act as important transport links.
Practically the whole of Egypt's water needs are supplied by the Nile and a
large part of its energy requirement is produced at the Aswan High Dam where
discharges to lower Egypt are now regulated. Since the first filling of the
dam in 1964 the characteristics of the river water have changed appreciably
with the amount of suspended solids reducing by as much as 80%. The reduc-
tion in colloidal matter has not been wholly beneficial from the aspect of a
domestic supply as the raw water shows some color, variable turbidity and an
algae problem that was hitherto absent. The latter problem is due to the in-
creased clarification which takes place in the High Dam allowing better sun-
light penetration thereby promoting algae growth. Now algae is always pre-
sent in the AWA's raw water supply with maximum proliferation in summer.
Nevertheless the raw water quality is suitable for treatment to potable water
standards with typical indicators as shown:



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Turbidity T.U. p.p.m.                  64    -    131
Suspended Solids p.p.m.                27.3
pH value                                7.9
Alkalinity p.p.m.                     144    -    151
Hardness p.p.m.                       143
Chlorides p.p.m.                       53    -    146
Total Solids p.p.m.                   309
Ammonia (Free) p.p.m.                 047    -       0.28
Ammonia (Albuminoid) p.p.m.             0.4  -       0.47
Oxygen consumed from KmnO 4 p.p.m.    1.6  -         2.3
(p.p.m.: parts per million)
T.U.   :  turbidity units
3.        The water is free from excessive levels of iron, zinc, lead manga-
nese, copper, etc., or other potentially harmful substances. The flouride
content varies from 0.6-0.7 p.p.m.
4.        The multi-use primary canals are the responsibility of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Irrigation but the AWA has secure abstraction rights for
its present and future production needs. The AWA also owns and operates a
16 km long private supply canal with an upstream diversion on the Mahmoudia
Canal because this becomes increasingly polluted towards its termination in
Alexandria. The private canal (which will be enlarged) has a carrying capa-
city of 600,000 m3/day and supplies raw water to Siouf, Rond Point, Manshia
and Forn el Geraya. Also short canals within the perimeter of the water
treatment plans are used as settlement basins occasionally with feric chlo-
ride dosing as an additional coagulant aid and pre-chlorination for algae
control.
Treatment Plants
5.        The water treatment plants now in use are listed together with an
indication of overload. It should be noted that only about half of produc-
tion is metered while the remainder is estimated from pump ratings.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Capacity m3/day
Plant                             Occasional       Percentage
Location             Nominal       Maximum          Overload        Feed Canal
Rond Point           220,000       400,000              82          Private 1/
Siouf                140,000       200,000              43          Mahmoudia
Forn el Geraya        50,000        60,000              20          Private 1/
Mariout               17,000        30,000               76         Noubaria
Maamoura              23,000        35,000               52         Montaza
(Manshia)           (100,000)         -                  -          Private 1/
550,000      725,000               61%(32%)
6.        The new Manshia plant will help to reduce the overload situation
(to 32%) but only temporarily, as demand continues to increase. The in-
ability of the AWA to expand water treatment capacity has had two detri-
mental effects: (i) the quality of the filtered water to supply has deter-
iorated, and (ii) essential maintenance has not been carried out because
units could not be taken out of service for any length of time. The change
in the character of the raw water has also compounded the authority's treat-
ment difficulties. Despite these problems the AWA has managed to supply
bacteriologically safe drinking water to its consumers.
7.        All plants operate on the same principle of chemically assisted
clarification followed by rapid gravity filtration. The clarification pro-
cess depends on the use of aluminum sulphate sometimes aided by polyelectro-
lytes when algae is abundant. In an effort to minimize operating costs the
amount of chemical dosing is frequently less than the optimum required for
best results.
8.        Individual filter plants at each station were constructed over a
number of years and design varies in accordance with the design principles
of the time and origin of the equipment supplier. The first units constructed
at Rond Point in 1907 are still in operation. Filtration rates broadly depend
on media grain size and the operating head; in the older filters the filtra-
tion rate is from 4.2 m/hr nominal to a maximum of 7.5 m/hr., in the newer
5.0 m/hr to 8.0 m/hr.  Filters are cleaned by backwashing with filtered water
when output falls and efficiency is impaired. The washing process also in-
cludes air blown into the media helping to loosen trapped fine solids; older
plants use mechanical rakes for this purpose. In general each unit is washed
once per day but frequency of washing and the duration is governed by the
quality of the clarified water being processed; this in turn is subject to
seasonal variation of the raw water.
1/ At times of overload raw water is drawn directly from the Mahmoudia
canal.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
9.        Filtration is followed by chlorination and storage to give suffi-
cient contact time for disinfection before pumping supply to consumers. Re-
gular sampling and testing both in the Public Health Laboratories and in the
water supply authority's laboratories indicate a total absence of coliforms
from over 7,000 samples taken annually. Chemical examination confirms that
the mineral content is well within accepted standards for potable water.
10.       The turbidity of the supplies, varying from 1.7 to 3.6 T.U. P.P.M.,
is higher than might be expected for a good potable water although it does
not exceed an upper limit suggested in a WHO/International standard of 5.0
P.P.M. Excess turbidity (a measure of water clarity) in the filtered water
can be objectionable as it represents colloids in suspension not removed in
the purification process. A large water authority, such as the AWA, should
be trying to achieve turbidities of less than 1.00 P.P.M. in the filtered
water but this is presently impossible because of continuous overload, low
chemical dosing and a lack of general maintenance.
11.       In cooperation with engineers and chemists of the AWA a water treat-
ment expert, engaged by the Bank, visited the Authority's facilities from
March 17-27, 1976, to assess plant performance and make recommendations for
improvements. The expert's report has been made available to the AWA and
some of his suggestions can be followed up immediately while others will take
longer to put into effect. The AWA, however, generally agrees with his con-
clusions namely to (i) introduce mechanical screening at raw water inlets;
(ii) use break-point prechlorination all the year round; (iii) increase co-
agulant chemical doses in the clarification process and investigate further
the economics of polyelectrolytes used in conjunction with aluminum sulfate;
(iv) where possible modify filters to increase operating head and increase
sand grain size; (v) re-introduce regulation of filter throughput; (vi) in-
stall measurement devices at each stage of the treatment process and repair
inoperative equipment; and (vii) maintain pH in the finished water from 7.5
to 7.8 depending on temperature (presently pH varies from 7.2-7.5). In the
meantime the AWA is actively engaged in modifying a number of old clarifiers
to work on the pulsation principle which permits automatic desludging.
Storage
12.       Practically all of AWA's clear water storage is at low level with
about 40% of total capacity attached to the water treatment plants. The flat
topography of the area precludes providing economical storage at high eleva-
tion. The total system storage of 225,000 m3 represents about 34% of average
daily demand. The broad allocation of the storage is as shown:
Percentage          Percentage of daily water
Location                        Storage              demand in the Area
Alexandria Governorate            67                          97
Mersa Matruh Governorate          29                           2
Behera Governorate                 4                           1



ANNEX 2
Page 5
The apparent inbalance in the disposition of the storage is partly explained
by the large amount of storage provided at the pumping station sites along
the route of the western desert pipelines. At Mersa Matruh city supply is
delivered to a 30,000 m3 capacity reservoir. High buildings and apartments
above the third floor in Alexandria are required to include service storage,
and, although this is unquantified, the total amount is considerable. Indus-
try is also obliged to provide balancing storage.
Distribution System
13.       The AWA's distribution network ranges in diameter from trunks of
900 mm to minor distribution of 80 mm. Of the 2,053 km in use at the end of
1975, 95% was for the delivery of filtered water, the remaining 5% for raw
water conveyance. Some of the transmission laid over 70 years ago, of cast
iron, is still in use and in good condition. Since World War II the trend
has been towards the use of ductile iron and asbestos cement materials. AC
pipes are manufactured in Egypt up to 600 mm in diameter. The distribution
system is being extended at the rate of 30-40 km per year. Small diameter
connections to households are mostly of lead piping but plastic piping is be-
ing used increasingly.
14.       Pressure in the system is maintained entirely by pumping.  All
pumping stations have 70% - 90% standby capacity either in diesels or diesels
operated generators. The main pumping stations are located at the water
treatment plants and, where necessary, area pressure is augmented by 48
boosters. The AWA provides a minimum pressure of between 30 - 35 lbs/in2 at
each connection and this is achieved by the integration of variable pumping
heads at each main station. The average pressure available at the pumping
outlets is 70 lbs/in2. Pressure changes, as a result of fluctuations in
demand, are accommodated by the number of pumps in use at any given time.
Production of water into the system is measured by venturi meter at Siouf
and Forn el Geraya while at the three other plants this is determined by
pump rating and hours of operation. Installation of main meters at all sta-
tions is proposed.
15.       Consumers are metered at the point of connection.  There were in
1974 over 100,000 water connections feeding one or more premises. In build-
ings with multiple occupancy one main meter checks total flow to a number of
consumers with individual submeters located inside the property. Unaccounted
for water in the distribution system, currently about 38% of production, is
expressed as the difference between output at the treatment plants and the
sum of the metered sales.
System Losses
16.       System losses accrue from leaks in the system and water delivered
to the consumer but not paid for. Since no recent waste prevention programs
has been carried out there is no clear measure of what percentage of loss



ANNEX 2
Page 6
occurs in the distribution as compared with losses inside the premises being
supplied. Where meters are inoperative or inaccurate, accounts are rendered
on the basis of previously recorded average consumption. Meters below 1-1/2"
in diameter, manufactured in Egypt are widely installed but are not con-
sidered completely reliable. Leaky domestic plumbing fixtures are also a
source of waste and often go unrepaired because of the high cost of plumbing
help in relation to the cost of water. Theft of water is prevalent in the
Western Desert along the supply lines of Mersa Matruh, and preventing waste
in this section is particularly troublesome for the AWA even though it re-
presents only about 2% of all water going into supply.
On-going Operations and Studies
17.       The AWA will complete in 1976 the construction of Manshia water
treatment plant with a capacity of 100,000 m3/day and preliminary work has
commenced for this to be doubled. Work is also in hand to extend the capa-
cities of Rond Point, Siouf and Mariout by a combined total of 150,000 m3/
day. These extensions (totalling 250,000 m3/day) and system renewals in the
Western Desert are estimated to cost LE 24 million and are part of the
Authority's 1976-1980 expansion program.
18.       With consultant aid, financed by USAID, AWA will be undertaking a
long term Master Plan study of its operations and investment requirements to
the year 2000. This study will among other things also focus on waste pre-
vention. A parallel study, also financed by USAID, will review AWA's organ-
ization and tariff structure as part of a study of water and sewerage in 6
Egyptian cities.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THE ALEXANDRIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
EGYPT
Forecast of Population, Connections, Consumption and Production
A. Population
1.        Population growth in Alexandria between 1967 and 1973 has decreased
from 2.9% to 2.7% per annum. Despite this decrease, Alexandria's population
growth is still in excess of the national average of 2.5% and is accounted for
by natural increase, immigration from the canal zone following the 1967 hostil-
ities and successful government efforts to expand work opportunities in the
environs of the city. Present proposals include for the establishment of a
Free Trading Zone and the attraction of new industry to the area. In addi-
tion Alexandria is the premier holiday resort for Cairo and much of Egypt and
accommodates over one million visitors during the 3 months summer vacation
period. Population in the adjacent rural supply areas of Behera and Mersa
Matruh is growing at 2.5% per annum and a similar growth rate has been esti-
mated for the next few years. The growth for Alexandria is expected to re-
main at 2.7% (See Attachment 1). For physical and technical reasons the AWA
area of supply does not cover the whole of the adjacent Governorates as shown
in the following table.
Estimated
Density          Total               Percentage of
Governorate          Persons/km2      Popultion      Population Supplied by AWA
Alexandria             896            2,600,000                   99%
Behera                 244            2,470,000                    4%
Mersa Matruh             0.5            154,000                   80%
2.        In the Mersa Matruh Governorate 75,000 of the population is located
in Mersa Matruh city, at the extreme limits of the AWA's supply area. Mersa
Matruh is supplied in bulk by AWA and a GOPW operated desalting plant with an
effective capacity of about 1,000 m3/day. Supply to the remainder of Behera's
population is the responsibility of the GOPW.
B. Connections
3.        Ninety-eight percent of AWA's consumers are supplied through metered
connections. Out of 210,000 registered accounts from connections less than



ANNEX 3
Page 2
3,700 are billed as non-metered consumption, half of which are Government de-
partments. Less than 50,000 of the population (5%), living in surrounding
rural Alexandria are supplied from public hydrants. The AWA also has 890 un-
metered connections from a separate system for garden supply and a high pres-
sure, fire-fighting system both of which use raw water directly abstracted
from canals. Main connections often serve several premises in, for example,
apartment buildings. In these instances, the AWA owns and services the main
meter while the apartment owner provides for internal meters for allocating
water costs to individual tenants. For billing and as a check on total con-
sumption, all meters are read. The AWA aims at 100% metering and is moving
towards this goal. Of even greater importance is the metering accuracy which
has declined with the difficulty in obtaining reliable meters. The AWA in-
stalls meters on all new supplies and with future population increases from
3500-4000 connections will be made annually.
4.        In 1975 a total of 8400 housing units were built in Alexandria of
which 70% was for low-income families with piped water installed. A serious
lack of physical planning complicates the problems of forecasting where
facilities in the public sector will be required, because of apparently un-
coordinated development proposals.
C. Historical Consumption
5.        The annual water production and sales records of the AWA, pro-
vide a clear picture of the decline in the Authority's fortunes. Although
production has steadily increased to meet demand, virtually no change has
occurred in water sales during the last four years as shown below:
Estimated
Million m3        Million m3         Estimated Percentage
Year               Produced            Sold             Unaccounted for Water
1972                  190              140.0                     27
1973                  200              138.6                     32
1974                  220              138.7                     36
1975                  230              139.0                     40
6.        The static sales over the last three years are believed due to con-
tinous deterioration in the metering (on which sales are based) and increased
theft or misuse due to a lack of operational controls.
7.        The current estimate of unaccounted for water is about 38%, which
is still considered excessive. To date no concerted effort has been made by
AWA to analyze where its losses occur. As a first step, however, a simple
survey will be carried out to determine (i) the number of meters out of serv-
ice for repair or recalibration and for what period; (ii) the average life
of meters and the frequency of calibration. The Authority has a fully
staffed meter repair workshop and stores, currently being expanded. At the
same time, a search will be made for illegal connections.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
8.        A more difficult and time-consuming task is tracing any major
leaks occurring in the distribution network. This work has been neglected
and AWA is now prepared to tackle the waste problem objectively. In this
it will be assisted by foreign consultants (financed from USAID funds) whose
terms of reference will include a waste detection and loss prevention study.
9.        Losses on the old western desert pipeline, which ruptures frequent-
ly, may be as high as 60%. Misuse and theft also contribute to the loss.
The total quantity supplied to the area is fortunately only about 2% of the
authority's production. On the other hand it is the most expensive water
the AWA delivers.
D. Future Consumption
10.       From a representative sampling, AWA estimates domestic consumption
at 110 lcd per day; 20% of the population is using 60 lcd or less. This
sampling of consumption, in typical residential areas of Alexandria, was re-
lated to population and excludes unaccounted for water. In predicting future
personal water, using a modest increase of 2% per annum is assumed to match
improved living standards. In the year 2000, urban use is estimated at 175
lcd and in rural villages at 80 lcd.
11.       Industrial and commercial consumption (now about 22% of production)
is assumed to increase by some 5% p.a. linked largely with growth in the Gov-
ernment of Alexandria. On this basis non-domestic demand is projected for
1980 at 175,000 m3/day; 1985, 221,000 m3/day and 1990, 280,000 m3/day. Fu-
ture industrial expansion includes a major tire factory, oil refinery, port
extension, a spongy iron complex, various textile companies. Tourism de-
partment and a free trade zone are also envisaged. The pace at which this
development occurs is dependent on many factors but there is ample justifica-
tion for assuming a long-term increase.
12.       In equating water demand with treatment capacity, it was agreed
with AWA that it would attempt to reduce the amount of unaccounted for water
from the current 38% of production to 25%. AWA will make an immediate start
on this operational problem to locate major losses and should reach its tar-
get-loss figure about five years after project completion. Although the sup-
ply to areas outside Alexandria is only a fraction of total production, un-
accounted for water is proportionately higher; in these areas, AWA will aim
to reduce losses to 30% of input to these systems.



APPRAISAL OF
THE ALEXANDRIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
EGYPT
Estimated Water Demand, Population Served and Proposed Plant Capacities
1 000's
m3 /day
1 700
. 
1600                                                                                                                                                        /
1500                                                                                                                                          .
Estimated future
1400  -                                                                                         capacity required        _/
1300 -                                                                                                                               /
Plant capacity being                             *.
provided in program
1 200  -                                                           ~Estimated average
total daily demand m'
including losses
1100 _                                                                                                                                                                600
7         Estimated                                                                   /
_,   maximum daily                         .00_
1000                   ~~~demand m'                  - + /                                              Estimated water 
1000                   ~~~~~~~including losse     *production                                                                                                 500 
900                                                                                                                                                                  400    f
Estimated                             o 0
_l                                                     ,                                                       5population           _0
800                                                                                                                                                                  300 _
c0
Water Treatment Plant Completions
1  Rond Point Extension AWA on-going                                o
700                               01- _   _                                                          2  Mariout Extension AWA on-going                               200 al 5
.               3                                                                                3  Sioui Extension AWA on-going
t   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~4 Manshia Extension AWA on-going
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5  Mamoura E-tension Bank project
t2                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 Siouf Extension Bank project
600  -                                                                                                7  El Nasr (New) Bank project                                   100
600  _  /    _ _                                                                  8  Forn El Geraya Extension Bank project
1St72   1976          1980                         1985                        1990                         1995                         2000
Years
World Bank- 16305(R)



ANNEX 4
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THE ALEXANDRIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
EGYPT
Project Description
1.        The project falls broadly into four components (i) the extension of
existing water treatment capacity, pumping and trunk distribution; (ii) the
replacement of defective or worn out equipment; (iii) the supply of vehicles
and equipment to improve oprations; and (iv) the purchase of water meters.
2.        It forms part of an AWA 5 year investment program which would, in
total, add another 600,000 m3/day to the present capacity of 550,000 m3/day
of the Authority's treatment plants and provide sufficient capacity, on com-
pletion in 1981, to meet the demand of 1990.
Treatment Capacity and Trunk Mains
3.        The project will provide 350,000 m3/day of treatment capacity suf-
ficient to supply the domestic requirements of some 1.4 million inhabitants
of whom about 25% will be accommodated in the areas where basic housing needs
are being provided. 91% of this increased population would be served in
Alexandria and the Governorate, 4% in Behera Governorate and 5% would be in
the coastal western desert and Mersa Matruh. With the exception of El Nasr,
all the capacity results from extension of existing plants.
4.        The El Nasr plant (14% of the treatment capacity in the project)
located to the west of Alexandria, will serve (i) anticipated industrial
development at Dekheila (2/3 of capacity), and (ii) the Mersa Matruh governo-
rate and adjacent rural population (1/3 capacity). The trunk mains being
provided will serve areas experiencing pressure difficulties and further
strengthen the integration of water treatment plant capacity. Trunk mains
in the project are sized on conventional head loss methods but AWA will com-
plete a network analysis of its entire distribution system using the computer
facilities of Alexandria University before any further major extensions. The
raw water main to supply Forn el Geraya plant is required because of the pol-
luted condition of the Mahmoudia canal opposite the water treatment plant.
Replacement and Renewals
5.        Some of the AWA's mechanical equipment at water treatment plants is
worn out and a major renewals program is required. The main requirements are



ANNEX 4
Page 2
for pumps and electrical equipment. At Siouf the old direct current equip-
ment is to be converted to alternating current, and where no standby generat-
ing capacity exist, it will be provided. The AWA carries out major repairs
and services for all its equipment from its own workshop for which new machine
tools are now urgently required. The water barges included will replace ves-
sels near the end of their useful life.
Water Meters
6.        Water delivered to AWA's consumers is metered, but faulty meters
represent an increasing problem for the Authority. Much of the 38% unaccount-
ed-for water production may be attributed to inaccurate measurement or in-
operative meters. The AWA wishes to obtain reliable, well-designed meters
of the multi-jet type and the project allows for providing about 35,000 units.
Meters up to and including 1-1/2" in diameter are manufactured by a Govern-
ment factory in Egypt but are of poor quality. Above 1-1/2" in diameter all
meters are imported. The meters to be purchased under the project will be
required to meet AWA's quality and performance specifications and it assumed
that all meters will be imported. The sole Egyptian supplier, however, is
understood to be looking at the prospects of associating with a foreign manu-
facturer to produce meters of improved performance and reliability.
Vehicles and Equipment
7.        The AWA has a serious lack of mobile construction equipment and
small portable pumping units required for use at treatment plants' pumping
station and for system repairs. This need will be provided for in the proj-
ect together with transport for personnel, trucks and lifting gear. To im-
prove efficiency, the project provides for new accounting machinery, com-
munications and leak detection equipment.
Project Components
(1) Water Treatment Plants
(a) Siouf Extension 200,000 m3/day
Consisting of:  4 clarifiers each 50,000 m3/day
20 filters each 10,000 m3/day
2 clear water reservoirs each 7,000 m3/
capacity
12 vertical pumping units each of 2,000
m3/hr capacity
6 1,500 KVA transformers



ANNEX 4
Page 3
(b) Forn El Geraya Extension 50,000 m3/day
Consisting of:  1 clarifier 50 000 m3Lday
10 filter each ~,000 m3 /day
2 clear water reservoirs each 7,000 m3/hr
capacity
6 vertical pumping units each of 1,000
m3/hr capacity
2 1,500 KVA transformers
(c) Maamoura Extension 50,000 m3/day
Consisting of:  1 clarifier 50,000 m3/day
10 filters each 5,000 m3/day
1 clear water reservoir 6,000 m3 capacity
6 vertical pumping units of each 1,000
m3/hr capacity
2 1,500 KVA transformers
(d) El Nasr 50,000 m3/day
Consisting of:  1 clarifier 50,000 m3/day
10 filters each 50,000 m3/day
2 clear water reservoirs each 7,000 m3/hr
capacity
6 vertical pumping units each 1,000 m3/hr
capacity
2 1,500 KVA transformers
The project water treatment plant capacity will include for all buildings,
electrical controls pipework and valves together with chemical dozing equip-
ment.
(2) Trunk Mains
700 mm
(a)  Rond Point to Raseltin                   6.00 km
(b)  Dekheila to Sidi Kirir                  25.00 km
(c)  El Nasr to Sid Kirir                    26.00 km
(d)  Forn el Geraya to Manshia                3.50 km
(e)  Sporting Club to Bacos                   3.60 km



ANNEX 4
Page 4
1000 mm
(d)  Manshia to Siouf                         6.2 km
(e)  Raw Water Supply to Forn el Geraya       2.3 km
72.6 km
(3) Booster Stations (New)
3 Stations at Sidi Kirir,
Agami,
and Sporting Club with a combined output of 2,000 m3/hr
The stations will include all necessary buildings pipework and electrical
controls and one unit of diesel standby pumping will be provided at each
location.
Renewals (Equipment only)
3 Stations at Montaza,
Gabbery,
and Mex with a combined output of 2,800 m3/hr
The Montaza booster includes for providing one unit of diesel driven standby.
(4) Mechanical and Electrical Equipment Major Renewals
Location
(a)  Siouf                      Diesel generating units
Raw water pumping units
Filtered water pumps
Grab dredger
Air blowers
Wash water pumps
Chemical dozing pumps
(b)  Maamoura                   3 raw water pumps 500 m3/hr capacity
3 filtered water pumps 500 m3/hr
capacity
3 wash water pumps 800 m3/hr
3 air blowers 1,000 m3/hr
(c)  Forn el Geraya             6 vertical raw water pumps 1,000
m3/hr capacity
(d)  Rond Point                 7 A.C. raw water pumps 1,800 m3/hr
capacity against 18.5 meter head
9 A.C. filter water pumps 1,200
m3/hr capacity



ANNEX 4
Page 5
3 wash water pumps 500 m3/hr capa-
city
2 drainage pumping units 500 m3/hr
3 vertical raw water pumps 1,800
m3/hr capacity against 36.5 meter
head
(e) Mahmoudia Pumping
Station                  9 vertical raw water pumps 1,800
m3/hr
2 horizontal raw water pumps
3,000 m3/hr
(f)  Mariout                    3 squirrel cage 340 HP motors
3 squirrel cage 200 HP motors
5 squirrel cage 60 HP motors
All units to include for electrical controls and necessary wiring.
(5) Standby Generator
Mahmoudia                        1 - 1,500 KVA standby Generating
complete etc.
Pumping Station                  Complete with all controls
(6) Workshop Equipment (64 items). The provision of the following
equipment at Rond Point and Siouf water treatment plants:
Shearing and punching machines
Lathes
milling and shaping machines
radial and bench drills
grinding machines
welding equipment
mobile generators
wood working machinery
(7) Water Barges
4 - Self-powered water supply barges of 300 m3 capacity for
bunkering ships in Alexandria harbor
(8) Mobile Construction Equipment (170 items)
Portable electric submersible pumps 2" - 6" diameter
Diesel driven dewatering pumps 2" - 4"
Diesel driven compressors
Concrete mixers
Vibrators and jack harmers



ANNEX 4
Page 6
(9)  Office and Operational Equipment
(a) Modernization of existing accounting machinery
(b) New telephone switchboard at Head Office
(c) Mobile radio communication system
(d) Leak detection equipment
(10)  140 Vehicles and Trucks
Forklifts
Mobile crane
Trucks for pipe maintenance service
Buses and microbuses for employee transport
Motorcycles
Passenger cars for supervision and maintenance program
(11)  Water Meters.  Supply of 35,486 water meters of the following
diameters:
34,720 - 1/2" - 1-1/2" diameter meters
465 - 2" - 6" diameter meters
276 - 8" - 12" diameter meters
25 - 16" - 24" diameter meters



APPRAISAL OF
THE ALEXANDRIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
EGYPT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
Project Components                   1977                   1978                   1979                  1980                   1981
Water Treatment Plants
Siouf                                                                     w , r  "F  ,l WJtff _, OA _~ S
Forn el Geraya                                         ** ,     *lhJTh                                                   "
Mamoura 5||| 
El Nasr                                                hllll  
Network and Pumping
700 mm pipeline                             l       lll         1                     _
1000  mm   pipeline                          mfl  Ie I                                             ______________-
Booster Stations                    lIAlE                       _
Installation of Renewals
and Equipment Supply
Mechanical and Electrical             a
Standby generator
Workshop equipment          s    ss. -  
Water barges                                     ll
Construction and Maintenance         I A_ A A A M   g
equipment
Vehicles                                     A A A I L |   g N  R,"LA X * _AFA FAVA    X      _
Water Meters                         l  1 111 15 BMX    W IW   W 
Activities:
1lmilumasm Design and preparation
L           Bidding, evaluation and award
Construction
P0   ZAW   Supply of materials and equipment
World Bank-16367



ANNEX 6
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THE ALEXANDRIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
EGYPT
Key Indicators
1.        The following key indicators will be monitored during the execution
of the project to measure the achievement of the technical, financial, admin-
istrative and training goals set for the proposed project. In each case, the
figure requested (budget and actual) will be shown for the latest quarter and
for the same quarter one year earlier.
Physical Criteria
(a) Water production
(i) average daily production for each month of the quarter;
(ii) cumulative total production for the year;
(iii) water input to Western Desert pipelines for each month
of the quarter.
(b) Water quality
(i) average turbidity of raw water;
(ii) average turbidity of water at exit of clarifiers;
(iii) average turbidity of filtered water to supply.
(c) Water consumption
(i) average daily consumption for each month of the quarter;
(ii) cumulative total consumption for the year;
(iii) same as for (i) and (ii) except indicating volumes sold;
(iv) water sold to customers on Western Desert pipelines for
each month of the quarter;
(v) water sold to Mersa Matruh city for each month of the
quarter.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
(d) Unaccounted-for water
volume and percentage for each month of the quarter.
(e) Connections
(i) number of new connections by user for the quarter;
(ii) total connections at end of quarter.
(f) Population
population served at end of year.
(g) Meters
(i) number of meters repaired or replaced during quarter;
(ii) number of meters repaired or replaced to end of quarter
since beginning of repair program in May, 1977.
(h) Leaks
(i) number of major leaks investigated during quarter;
(ii) number of leaks repaired during quarter;
(iii) number of leaks repaired to end of quarter since beginning
of repair program in May, 1977.
(i) Maintenance
(i) number of employees operating and maintaining water
treatment plants at end of quarter;
(ii) number of employees engaged in system maintenance and
operation at end of quarter.
Staffing
(i) number of permanent employees at end of quarter;
(ii) number of employees per 1,000 connections at end
of quarter.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Financial Indicators
(a)  average revenue/m3 delivered;
(b)  operating expenses/m3 produced;
(c) water billings for the quarter;
(d) value of accounts receivable at the end of the quarter.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THE ALEXANDRIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
EGYPT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                                       Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                                              at End of Quarter
(US$ '000's)
1977/78
September 30, 1977                                               150
December 31, 1977                                                 550
March 31, 1978                                                 1,500
June 30, 1978                                                  4,ooo
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                              6,500
December 31, 1978                                             10,000
March 31, 1979                                                13,500
June 30, 1979                                                 17,500
1979/80
September 30, 1979                                            22,000
December 31, 1979                                             27,000
March 31, 1980                                                 32,000
June 30, 1980                                                 36,500
1980/81
September 30, 1980                                            40,500
December 31, 1980                                             43,500
March 31, 1981                                                47,000
June 30, 1981                                                 50,000
1981/82
September 30, 1981                                            52,000
December 31, 1981                                             54,0oo
March 31, 1982                                                55,000
June 30, 1982                                                 56,000
December 2, 1976



APPRAISAL OF
THE ALEXANDRIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
EGYPT
Cost Estimates and Loan Allocations
Proposed Allocation of Loan
Percentagc          LE                 US$
Local       Foreign      Total        Local      Foreign       Total             Basis           ---     Millions-----------
----- LE Million -----------          --------US$ Million---------                7.
Itce  I    Civil Works
Siouf Water Treatment Plant                                                   3.786        1.622        5.408       9.691       4.153       13.844               30             1.622               4.153
Forn el Geraya Treatment Plant                                                1.253        0.537        1.790       3.207        1.375       4.582               30             0.537               1.375
Memoura Treatsent Plant                                                       0.540        0.232        0.772       1.383        0.593       1.976               30             0.232                .593
El Nasr Treatmeet Plant                                                       1.273        0.545        1.818       3.258        1.396       4.654               30             0.545               1.396
700 sm pipelines                                                              1.975        0.846        2.821       5.056        2.167       7.223               30             0.846               2.167
1000 mm pipelines                                                             0.396        0.170        0.566       1.014        0.435       1.449               30             0.170               0.435
Booster stations                                                              0.241        0.104        0.345       0.618        0.265       0.883               30             0.104               0.265
Replacement Mechanical Equipment and Electrical                               0.343        0.147        0.490       0.878        0.376       1.254               30             0.147               0.376
Installation Standby Generators                                               0.042        0.018        0.060       0.108        0.046       0.164               30             0.018               0.046
Sub Total I                                                                   9.849        4.221       14.070      25.213       10.806      36.019               30             4.221              10.806
Item II   Equipment and Materials
Siouf Water Treatment Plant                                                   0.569        1.138        1.707       1.457        2.913       4.370               L/             1.13a               2.913
Forn el Geraya Treatment Plant                                                0.291        0.583        0.874       0.744        1.493       2.237                /             0.583               1.493
Mamoura Treatment Plant                                                       0.321        0.641        0.962       0.822        1.641       2.463               I/             0.641               1.641
El Nasr Treatment Plant                                                       0.573        1.145        1.718       1.467        2.931       4.398               1/             1.145               2.931
700 em pipelines                                                              2.070        4.139        6.209       5.299       10.596      15.895               V              4.139              10.596
1000 mm pipelines                                                             0.416        0.832        1.248       1.065        2.130       3.195               l/             0.832               2.130
Sub Total II                                                                  4.240        8.478       12.718      10.854       21.704      32.558                              8.478              21.704
Item III Equipment and Materials (Operations)
Booster Stations                                                              0.100        0.200        0.300       0.256        0.512       0.768                V             0.200               0.512
Replacement Mechanical and Electrical Equipment                               0.200        0.400        0.600       0.512        1.024        1.536              1/             0.400               1.024
Standby Generators                                                            0.050        0.100        0.150       0.128        0.256       0.384                /             0.100               0.256
Workshop Equipment                                                            0.100         0.200       0.300        0,256       0.512        0.768               V              0.200              0.512
Water Barges                                                                  0.217         0.080       0.297       0.556        0.204        0.760              1/             0.080               0.204
Construction Equipment                                                        0.070        0.130        0.200       0.179        0.333       0.512                              0.130               0.333
Office Equipment                                                              0.080         0.120       0.200       0.205        0.307        0.512              1/             0.120               0.307
Vehicles and Truck.                                                           0.200        0.300        0.500       0.512        0.768       1.280               1/             0.300               0.768
Water Meters                                                                  0.167         0.333       0.500        0.427       0.853        1.280               1/            0.333               0.853
Sub Total III                                                                 1.184         1.863       3.047       3.031        4.769        7.800                             1.863               4.769
Sub totals I, II, and III                                                    15.273        14.562      29.835      39.098       37.279      76.377              -1-            14.562              37.279
Item TV   Land Acquisition                                                              0.293           -         0.293        0.750        -           0.750                               -                  -
Item V    Engineering and Consultant Services                                           1.059         0.273       1.332        2.710       0.700        3.410               2/            0.273               0.700
Item VI   Physical Contingencies 15%                                                    2.291         2.184       4.475        5.864       5.592       11.456              ---             2.184              5.592
Item VII  Price Escalation                                                              6.751         4.856      11.607       17.285      12.429       29.714              ---            4.856              12.429
Total                                                                        25.667       21.875       47.542      65.707       56.000      121.707              ---           21.875              56.000
1/   100% of c.f.f. foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures ex factory and 75% of imported items if procured locally.
2/   100% of foreign expenditures and 80%.
-1- a. detailed; - no expenditure; --- not applicable
EMENA Regico
Tancary 1977



APPRAISAL OF
TH1E ALEXANDRIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
EGYPT
AWA ORGANIZATION
| ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~AE  TREAETMENT ASERVITCESO                                                           NEWR|T-r                        TCTNCLRSAC 
--I =l
|ANTS                        P      E EAIERSONNEN                                                  EANT WA        S                      P      S                      ET AE CACNHAIRMAN T-EHNICAL
DENTRAL A-INI-AHA ICT                                                                                                                                                                                                A N                       NTO RFSEA
I--| G                                EN                          ER                        AITLQ  ACONTS|tVNEADl                               _  P0   AT W FWRK T.l.                                                                      r   , TECTS Cl -  F{________
WESTANDWESTRNL--- ----
<   C05TING ANn  l  L    s ISTOMFR CONTFACT |   =    ENETAL SECAFT A|A   TNT ERNAL CANTRAL                                        CENEE RTRArETWATEA               PR FOJECTS ES eECTTON  |      |ORSERT DTSRTRETTTON                  P  ROJECTS RESEARDHS
L-WAT                i CRANCHES
- L   =                                                 {   ~~~~~~~~~~L ARdORTATAORTIES AND O -                                         _______
_|CENTRAL WRESEARCS |                                                    AT   EETA
.LL                                                   
AND MATNTENANCE                       - - -  PTRR,R, d OrpniTflTTTT3
_                                           AdTTRios                                              N     WOHd F-R- I3A3
- - - - - - - - - - - - - 



ANNEX 10
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THE ALEXANDRIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
EGYPT
Suggested Terms of Reference for a Management Systens Study
1.        The study comprises the design and installation of improved proce-
dures of management control throughout AWA with the objective of improving
operational efficiency and the motivation and morale of staff. The study is
divided into two stages: (a) stage one, the investigation of present pro-
cedures, identification of weaknesses, and the development of proposals for
improvement; (b) stage two, the implementation of agreed proposals.
Stage One
2.        The consultant shall examine and appraise the existing planning,
decision making and control procedures of AWA. In carrying out such
appraisal, he shall have particular (though not exclusive) regard to the
following considerations:
(a) whether an adequate machinery exists for defining the
objectives of AWA's future operations, for making plans
for their achievement, and for quantifying the results
that are expected;
(b) whether responsibility for achievement of the plans is
clearly assigned, and whether those to whom it is assigned
fully understand what is expected of them. In this connec-
tion the consultant is specifically required to develop
AWA's procedures for preparing annual budgets, which
presently are compiled only at corporate level, into a
structure of departmental budgets defining the expenditure
limits of each responsible manager for the forthcoming
financial year;
(c) the extent to which decision making is delegated to the
lowest level commensurate with the maintenance of proper
overall control;
(d) the adequacy of the statistical, operational and financial
information systems to provide managers at all levels with
timely, accurate and pertinent information with which to
monitor progress in relation to plan and to define correc-
tive action where necessarv. In this connection the
consultant is specifically required to design and install a
system of financial analvsis such that!



ANNEX 10
Page 2
(i)  the costs of separately identifiable parts of
AWA's operations (for example, the operation of
individual treatment works) can be separately
established;
(ii) the expenditures incurred by each department
manager can be established periodically for com-
parison with the departmental budgets described
under (b) above;
(iii) the revenues, costs and profits and losses attri-
butable to serving separately identifiable areas
of supply or classes of consumer can be readily
determined;
(e) the adequacy of existing procedures for staff motivation
and evaluation, including in particular:
(i)  the selection and quantification of standards of
performance for each job;
(ii)  procedures for evaluating the performance of each
job holder and reviewing the results with him;
(iii) promotion policies and the procedures for iden-
tifying and selecting candidates for promotion;
(iv) provision of adequate incentives (monetary or other-
wise) best designed to encourage good performance;
(v)  any other means by which staff morale may be improved.
In carrying out the above, the consultant shall at all times
have regard to national policies affecting public sector em-
ployment, and shall develop his proposals in such a way that
within the constraints of such policies, maximum incentives
are made available to staff whose performance is above normal;
(f)  whether technical and other training needs are systematically
reviewed and whether facilities (in-house or elsewhere) are
adequate to meet them.
3.        At the conclusion of this stage (which should be completed within
four months of the start of the assignment), the consultant shall prepare
a report setting out the results of his review and his recommendations for
improvements where such appear to him to be necessary. The report should
identify any urgent training needs which appear to the consultant to exist
as a result of his review under (f) above, and set out his recommendations
as to how these needs should best be met.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
Stage Two
4.        In stage two, the consultant will be required to implement such of
his procedural recommendations as may be agreed by AWA (in consultation with
the Bank) with or without modifications. He will also be required to ensure
that managers and staff are fully instructed in the new procedures and able to
operate them confidently.
5.        The consultant may also be invited to provide, or cause to be pro-
vided, some or all of the training which his report has identified as being
required. This will be determined when the extent and nature of the needs
have been defined.



ANNEX 11
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THE ALEXANDRIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
EGYPT
Tariffs
1.        AWA's charges for water supply are based on metered consumption
with the exception of the following:
(a) unmetered domestic premises (mainly old properties): based on
rental value;
(b) public standpipes: free;
(c) fire hydrants: annual fee per hydrant.
Less than 2% of connections are unmetered, and unmetered consumption is neg-
ligible.
2.        In the Governorate of Alexandria, different rates are applied to
different classes of consumer and domestic consumers pay a lower rate for the
first 10 m3 per month than for subsequent consumption. Certain groups of
consumers -- for example, charities, places of worship, youth centres -- are
given discounts up to 75% of the published rates. Until 1976 the rates had
remained unchanged for 12 years. In 1976 AWA's Board proposed, in view of
the Authority's recurring financial losses, increases in most of the tariff
rates, but not all of these were accepted by the local legislative assembly.
The table below shows the principal rates in effect as of December 1976, the
changes proposed by AWA and the changes approved.
Previous   Present    Proposed
millimes per m3
Domestic
first 10  3 (minimum charge 100 millimes)    10            10            18
11 - 40 mJ                                    ( 15.2       15.2          2
succeeding consumption                        (                          50
Industrial                                           14         14            40
Government                                            14        40            40
Barge supplies to shipping                          120        550           550
Weighted average                                      14        21            31



ANNEX 11
Page 2
3.        The average cost (including depreciation) of water sold in Alexandria
was 21 millimes/m3 in 1975, and is expected to rise to about 26 millimes/m3
in 1976. The current tariff is thus inadequate to recover operating costs.
AWA's tariff structure is shortly to be the subject of a consultant study
financed by USAID. In the meanwhile, although the structure of the tariff
appears broadly reasonable for present purposes in that it provides for basic
domestic supplies at "lifeline" rates, and takes some account of ability to
pay, substantial increases are required in the average level of charge to
ensure the financial viability of AWA during the project construction period
and after.
4.        Tariffs to customers along the western desert pipelines are higher
than those for Alexandria, and increase with the remoteness of the settle-
ments. Prices per m3 range from 40 millimes to 100 millimaes for domestic
use and from 53 millimes to 224 millimes for non-domestic use. The City of
Mersa Matruh, to which AWA supplies water in bulk, is charged 140 millimes
per m3 for the first 500 m3 per day and 275 millimes per m3 above this
quantity. Consumers in Mersa Matruh are understood to be charged with the
purchase cost of water only, not taking into account local distribution costs.
5.        Despite these considerably higher rates, the tariff for western
desert supplies does not cover the costs of supply. Analyses of operating
data prepared by AWA show the results for 1975 as follows:
Water Sales                                600,000 m3
LE '000
Revenue                                           80
Operating cost                            225
Depreciation                               98    323
Operating Loss                                   243
6.        Commissioning of the new pipeline in late 1976 will generate in-
creased revenue from increased volume, but will impose additional costs.
Results for 1977 if the present tariff is applied unchanged are forecast
broadly as follows:
Water Sales                              2,100,000 m3
LE'000
Revenue                                          270
Operating cost                           570
Depreciation                              280    850
Operating Loss                                   580



ANNEX 11
'Page 3
7.        To ensure that the provision of supplies to the western desert does
not remain a continuing financial burden to AWA, Government agreed at nego-
tiations that AWA would be compensated for any shortfall between the revenues
derived from water sales in the Governorate of Mersa Matruh and the costs of
providing the supply. On the basis of this assurance and the calculation set
out in para 6 above, the financial projections assume compensation in respect
of western desert supplies of LE 600,000 for 1977, adjusted from time to time
during the forecast period to allow for inflation. However, considerable
responsibility rests with and is accepted by AWA to hold down the amount of
compensation needed by making strenous efforts to reduce unaccounted for water
(currently estimated at 60% of input) by improved metering and better opera-
tional control.



APPRAISAL OF
ALEXANDRIA WAfER SUPPLY PROJECT
EGYPT
AWA:  Income Statements, Years Ending December 31, 1972-85
(LE '000)
-------------Actual------------         -------------------------------------Forecast---------------------------------------
1972     1973      1974      1975       1976      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1985
Water produced  1/                                 190       200       220       230        240       250       260       270       280       290      295        300       310       320
(million m3)   -
Water sold                                         140.0    138.6    138.7    139.0         140.0    152.0    164.9    172.7    180.9    189.5    198.5    207.9    217.8    228.2
(million m3)
Unaccounted for water (%)                           27        32        36        40         42        39        37        36        35       34         33        31        30        29
Ave. Rev/m3  (millimes)                             13.5      13.6      13.2      14.3       17.5      26.0      31.5      40        50        60        63        63        63        63
(water sales)
LE'000
REVENUES
Water Sales                                        1,896    1,879    1,828    1,997         2,450    3,952    5,194    6,908    9,045   11,370   12,506   13,098   13,721   14,377
Connections and Installations                        233       272       325       311        342       357       377       427       448       469       528       550       581       608
Compensation re:  Western Desert Supply              -                        -         -               600       600       700       700       800       800       900       900       900
Total Revenue                                     2.12      2.151    2.153    2.308       2.792    4,909    6.171    8.035    0.1093   12.639   13.834   14.548   15,202   15.885
OPERATING EXPENSES
Salaries & Wages                                     722       742       852    1,028       1,116    1,211    1,308    1,409    1,503    1,597    1,708    1,809    1,913    2,030
Power and Fuel                                       397       396       442       688        800       922    1,046    1,187    1,347    1,525    1,727    1,956    2,215    2,506
Chemicals                                            215       169       209       317        389       472       564       643       768       916    1,095    1,242    1,343    1,450
Maintenance                                          769       589       613       996      1,096    1,204    1,305    1,413    1,531    1,655    1,789    1,934    2,089    2,257
Other                                                221       154       146       136        140       147       154       162       170       179       188       197       207       217
2,324    2,050    2,262    3,165        3,541    3,956    4,377    4,814    5,319    5,872    6,507    7,138    7,767    8,460
(Capitalized) 2/                                    (525)    (304)    (356)    (635)         (400)     (432)    (467)      (504)    (545)      (588)     (635)     (686)    (740)      (800)
Total Operating Expenses                           1,799    1,746    1,906    2,530         3.141    3,524    3 910    4,310    4.774    5.284    5.872    6.452    7.027    7 660
NET OPERATING INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION             330       405       247    ( 222)       (349)   1,385    2,261    3,725    5,419    7,355    7,962    8,096    8,175             8,225
Depreciation 3/                                      463       484       498       619        717    1,135    1,280    1,752    2.427    3,722    3,798    3,806    3.641    3.566
NET OPERATING INCOME                                 (133)      (79)    (251)    (841)   (1,066)        250       981    1,973    2,992    3,633    4,164    4,290    4,534    4,659
Non-operating Income                                  57        66        27        32         30        32        34        36        38        40        42        44        46        48
NET INCOME BEFORE INTEREST                           ( 76)     (13)    (224)    (809)   (1,036)         282    1,015    2,009    3,030    3,673    4,206    4,334    4,580    4,707
Interest                                             188       272       288       498        _         126       334    1,067    2.258    3.016    3.112    2.944    2,751    2.558
NET INCOME                                           (264)     (285)    (512)  (1,307)   ( 036)         156       681       942       772       657    1.094    1.390    1.829    2.149
Operating Ratio (%)                                   106       104      112       136        138        94        84         75       71         71        70        70       70         70
Rate of Return (%)                                     -         -       -          -          -        0.9       3.1       3.9       3.6       4.4       5.3       5.6       6.2       6.6
1/ Years 1972-5 estimated by AWA.                                                                                                                                                                 -X
2/ Represents cost of capital work carried oLt in AWA's workshop.
3/ Includes adjustments to provide for estimated replacement cost in 1972-75.
EMENA Region
January 1977



APPRAISAL OF
ALEXANDRIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
EGYPT
AWA: Cash Flow Statements, Years Ending December 31. 1973-85
(LE '000)
_ ___   Actual-------         ---------------------------------Forecast--------------------------------------------
1973     1974      1975       1976      1977     1978      1979      1980     1981      1982      1983      1984      1985
Internal Sources
Net Income before Interest                           (13)    (224)    (809)    (1,036)    282    1,015    2,009    3,030    3,673    4,206    4,334    4,580    4,707
Depreciation                                        484       498       619         717   1,135    1,280    1.752    2.427    3,722    3,798    3,806    3,641    3.566
471      274      (190)    ( 319)  1,417    2,295    3,761    5,457    7,395    8,004    8,140    8,221    8,273
Operational Requirements
Increase (Decrease) in                               836      833    1,344          223   ( 197)   ( 733)   ( 429)  (2,573)        978       141      (421)    (325)    (374)
working capital (exc. cash)
Interest:
Governrment                                 272       288      498         -        -          75      425    1,050    1,365    1,295    1,225    1,155    1,085
IBRD                                         -         -         -         -        126       259      642    1,208    1,651    1,817    1,719    1,596    1,473
Amortization:
Government                                   -         -         -         -        -          -         -       -       1,400    1,400    1,400    1,400    1,400
IBRD                                         _         -        -          -        -          -        -        -         -      1,410    1,410    1,410    1.410
Total Operational Requirements                      1,108    1,121    1,842          223      (71)    (399)      638      (315)   5,394    6,063    5,333    5,236    4,994
Balance of Internal Funds                            (637)    (847)  (2,032)        (542)  1,488    2,694    3,123    5,772    2,001    1,941    2,807    2,985    3,279
Capital Expenditures:
IBRD Project                                         -        -         -           -       195    4,333   17,027   23,887    2,100         -         -         -         -
AWA Projects                                     2,115    2,883    4j176         4.020   9,235    4,834    4 411    3.175          250       885      936       990    1.050
Total Capital Expenditures                          2.115    2,883    4,176        4.020   9.430    9.167   21.438   27,062    2.350           885      936       990    1,050
Balance to be Financed                              2,752    3,730    6,208        4,562   7,942    6,473   18,315   21,290          349   (1,056)  (1,871)  (1,995)  (2,229)
Finaniced by:
Government Equity Contributions                      -        -         -        4,527   6,00         -       -        -          -         _        _         _        _
Long-term Borrowing:
Government Loans                                 3,161    4,042    5,984            -       -      3,000   11,000   14,000         -         -        -         -        -
IBRD Loans                                           -        -         -           -       235    3.695    6,630    6,435    4,095         780       -         -        -
Customer Contributions                               (150)     308       340         360      850       820      850       880       200        70        80        90      100
Cash flow for Year                                    259      620       116         325    (857)   1,042        165        25    3,946    1,906    1,951    2,085    2,329
Cash at beginning                                    (807)    (548)       72         188      513      (344)     698       863       888    4,834    6,740    8,691   10,776
Cash at End                                          (548)       72      188         513    (344)       698      863       888    4,834    6,740    8,691   10,776   13,105
Debt Service Cover 1/                                 1.2       2.0      0.3          -      18.0       9.3      4.3       2.8       1.7       1.4       1.5       1.5      1.6
1/ Including income from customer contributions.
EMENA Region
January 1977



APPRAISAL OF
ALEXANDRIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
EGYPT
AWA   Balance Sheets at December 31, 1972-85
(LE '000)
-------         Actual------------    ---Forecast----------------------------------------------
1972       1973       1974       1975        1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982       1983       1984        1985
ASSETS
Fixed assets                       12,277      12,666    13,323    17,086        27,873    35,305    41,496    61,025    96,627    99,457   100,342   101,278   102,268   103,318
Less Depreciation                   5,159       5.584      6.004      6,540       7,257      8,392      9,672    11.424    13.851    17,573    21,371    25,177    28.818    32,384
Net Fixed Assets                   7,118       7,082      7,319    10,546       20,616    26,913    31,824    49,601    82,776    81,884    78,971    76,101    73,450    70,934
Work in Progress                    4,539       6,265      8 1        8,904       2,137      4,135      7,111      9,020        480        -          -          -          -
Total Fixed Assets                  11,657      13,347    15,810    19.450        22,753    31,048    38,935    58.621    83,256    81_884    78,971    76.101    73.450    70,934
Securities  1/                         127         127        127        127         127        127         127        127        127        127        127        127        127        127
Inventories 2/                       1,577       2,580      2,913      3,984       3,544      3,104      2,664      2,224      1,784       1,350      1,420      1,500      1,575      1,650
Accounts Receivable 3/               1,149       1,335      1,764      2,505       2,823      3,413      3,470      3,847       4,346      4,838      4,975      5,143      5,277      5,418
Cash and Equivalent                   (807)        (548)        72       188          513       (344)       698        863        888      4,834      6.740      8.691    10,776    13,105
Total Current Assets                 2,046       3.494      4,876      6.804       7,007      6,300      6.959      7.061       7,145    11,149    13.262    15,461    17,755    20.300
Total Assets                        13,703      16,841    20,686    26,254        29,760    37,348    45,894    65.682    90.401    93_033    92,233    91,562    91,205    91.234
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Government Contribution             4,442       4,442      4,442      4,442      26,000    32,000    32,000    32,000    32,000    32,000    32,000    32,000    32,000    32,000
Reserves 4/                         2,919       2,828      3,214      3,637       3,997      4,847      5,667      6,517      7,397       7,597      7,667      7,747      7,837      7,937
Retained Surplus                     (157)       (442)      (954)   (2,261)    (3.297)   (3,141)   (2,460)   (1,518)           ( 746)      ( 89)    1,005       2,395      4,224      6.373
Total Equity                         7,204       6,828      6,702      5.818      26,700    33,706    35.207    36,999    38,651    39.508    40,672    42,142    44,061    46,310
Long-term debt
Government                          3,844       7,005    11,047    17,031            -        -         3,000    14,000    28,000    26,600    25,200    23,800    22,400    21,000
IBRD                                  -           -          -          -           -          235      3,930    10.560    16,995    21,090    20,460    19.05D    17,640    16,230
Total Long-term Debt                 3 844       7,005    11 047    17.031            -          235     6,930    24.560    44,995    47,690    45,660    42,850    40,040    37,230
Accounts Payable                     2,655       3,008      2,937      3,405       3,060       3,407      3,757      4,123      6,755      5,835      5,901      6,570      7,104       7,694
Total Current Liabilities            2,655       3,008      2,937      3,405       3,060       3,407     3,757      4,123       6,755      5,835      5,901      6,570      7,104       7,694
Total Equity and Liabilities        13,703      L6 4 1    20,686    26,254        29,760    37,348    45,894    65.682    90,401    93,033    92.233    91,562    91,205    91,234
Debt Equity Ratio                   35 65        51 49      62 38      75 25       0 100        1 99     16 84      48 52       54 46      55 45      53 47      50 50      48 52      45 55
1/ Net of provision for depression in value.
2/ Net of provision for obsolescence.                                                                                                                                                            v3v
3/ Net of provision for doubtful debts.                                                                                                                                                          ( 
4/ Including customer contributions, revaluation surplus and other general reserves.
EMENA Region
January 1977



ANNEX 13
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THE ALEXANDRIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
EGYPT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
A. Income Statements
1.        Revenues from water sales are based on the forecast of demand set
out in Annex 3 and on the average revenues indicated. Compensation for
unrecovered costs of western desert supplies are shown separately, and have
been calculated on the basis of assurances received at negotiations as de-
scribed in para 6.11.
2.        Revenues from connections and installations are based on an annual
rate of new connections of 3500 per year rising to 4000 per year by 1985.
These have been evaluated at an average connection charge derived from the
annual reports for prior years, which amounted to LE 100 in 1975. This average
charge has been adjusted for inflation at 5% per year throughout the forecast
period.
3.        It has been assumed that there will be a gradual  overall increase
in productivity and that therefore salaries and wages costs will increase less
than proportionately to the increase in water production. Inflation of wage
and salary rates is assumed at 5% annually.
4.        Power costs have been assumed to increase proportionately to water
production and to be subject to inflation at 10% per year; power costs have
been held down and significant increases are expected. Maintenance costs have
been similarly projected on the basis of 5% annual inflation. Chemical costs
assume a dosage increasing to twice the present level by 1981, and 5% annual
inflation.
5.        Other operating expenses (mainly transport, insurance and stationery)
have been projected at a nominal 5% per annum increase from the 1975 level.
The value of maintenance work capitalized has been projected as a constant
proportion of gross maintenance expenses and is reflected in the capital
expenditures in the cash flow statements and in the value of fixed assets
in the balance sheets.
6.        Depreciation is based on:
(a) projected depreciation of AWA's existing assets (until fully
depreciated where appropriate); and



ANNEX 13
Page 2
(b) depreciation of newly acquired assets, from the year following
the year of commissioning, at AWA's normal rates of which the
principal are:
Buildings and civil works             5%
Pipelines                             3%
Plant and equipment                 7.5%
The average rate is approximately        3.5%
7.        Interest on all borrowings during the forecast period has been
charged to operations, in accordance with AWA's normal accounting practice.
B. Cash Flow Statements
8.        Capital expenditures outside the present project are based on
estimates developed by AWA and reviewed by the mission, plus a nominal
estimation of replacement expenditures and minor works continuing after 1981.
9.        Debt Service payments assume:
(a)  Government borrowings at 5% over 23 years including
3 years of grace;
(b) IBRD borrowings at 8.9% over 20 years including 4-1/2
years of grace.
10.       Customer contributions represent payments made by large consumers
(for example, industrial, military and agricultural establishments) towards
the cost of construction of works necessary to provide their supply. AWA
expects to receive substantial such contributions during the project con-
struction period, principally in connection with the establishment of the
Alexandria Free Trade Zone.
C. Balance Sheets
11.       The projection of inventories assumes that a substantial proportion
of the present high level, which contains a large content of pipes, will be
absorbed by project works. Thereafter, inventories will increase proportion-
ately to the usage of chemicals, fuels and maintenance supplies.
12.       Accounts receivable assume that, over the forecast period, the
period of credit on customers' accounts will gradually reduce to 1-1/2 months
for domestic, industrial and commercial consumers and 3-1/2 months for Govern-
ment accounts, reflecting the difference in frequency of meter reading for
these two groups and the assurances received from Government in respect of
the latter (para. 6.04).



ANNEX 13
Page 3
13.       Accounts payable comprises two principal elements:
(a) suppliers' accounts and provisions for accrued expense,
which have been projected proportionately to the trend
of operating expenses and inventories and adjusted for
contractors' retention moneys during the project con-
struction period;
(b) customers' meter deposits, which have been projected
according to the assumed growth of new connections.



ANNEX 14
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THE ALEXANDRIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
EGYPT
Incremental Economic Cost of Water in Alexandria
1.        The economic costs of providing additional water in Alexandria are
shown in Table 1 of Annex 14. They comprise the construction costs of the
project and the concurrent AWA program, together with the associated incre-
mental operating and maintenance costs. These costs have been adjusted to
constant 1976 prices, and duties payable on imported items have been elimina-
ted. Foreign exchange costs have been converted at the rate of LE 1 = $1.50
as more nearly representing the shadow exchange rate than does the official
rate. So that the analysis should not be distorted by the special case of
western desert supplies, the small component of project costs identifiable
as specifically attributable thereto has been eliminated.
2.        The incremental water provided by these programs comprises the sum
of:
(a) the additional capacity provided by the new and expanded
facilities to be constructed;
(b) the excess of the present level of supplies over the design
capacity of the present works, which could not be supported
without the renewal and replacement expenditures included in
the project.
The incremental quantities are shown in Column 4 of Table 1.
3.        The average cost of the incremental water, obtained by dividing
the present value of the stream of costs by the "present value" of the incre-
mental water, is shown in the following table using various rates of discount
to represent the opportunity cost of capital (OCC):
Discount Rate                   Average Cost
t%)                        (millimes/m3)
8                              42
10                              49
12                              56



ANNEX 14
Page 2
The average tariff proposed for AWA in the first year of full project opera-
tion (1982) is 63 millimes/m3. In terms of 1976 prices, this is equivalent
to 49 millimes/m3. The analysis therefore suggests that, although the proposed
tariff has been based principally on considerations of the financial needs of
AWA, it is also broadly reasonable in terms of the recovery of economic costs
at likely values of OCC. The forthcoming tariff studies under USAID should
aim at encouraging correct resource allocation by ensuring that large consumers
(for example, industry and hotels) will, through higher rates, continue to
contribute the full costs of the incremental supplies they demand.



ANNEX 14
Table 1 of 1
Long-Run Average Incremental Cost of Water - Alexandria
Capital        Operating      Total              Incremental
Cost           Cost          Cost                 Volume
Year         ------(million Egyptian pounds) ------            (million m3)
1977           6.3              -            6.3                  37.0
1978           6.3              .1           6.4                  37.0
1979          15.5              .2          15.7                  41.3
1980          19.2              .4          19.6                  49.5
1981           1.1              .5           1.6                  58.0
1982            -               .7            .7                  68.1
1983            -               .9            .9                  77.5
1984            -              1.0           1.0                  88.4
1985            -              1.1           1.1                  98.8
1986            -              1.2           1.2                 110.6
1987            -              1.3           1.3                 123.0
1988            -              1.4           1.4                 134.9
1989            -              1.5           1.5                 147.3
1990            -              1.7           1.7                 160.4
1991            -              1.9           1.9                 174.0
1992-2006       -              2.1           2.1                 188.3
Discount Rate           Average Cost
%                 millimes/m3
8                      42
10                      49
12                      56






IBRD 12323
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                                             AVddr   V  o  5K8
ALEXANDRIA WATER SUPPLY                                                                           SKAE 0'
FINANCED F NANCED EX ST NG                                 ("
BY AWA  BY SANK                                            AOC
\*         0  M e 9 . d   e r: r     e r      Se a     ;QR;;: ;                                  : 0       :|--                               M,6't 8                                  ,   S                         Lnv      Cit 
2  \                                         |                    5       *   Rese  s                                                       |       ARAB           >\J    UD___   \  N~
; \ \ : 0 0 0 : : t ; \:: 0 : 0 J O z Wvterworic t REPUBL C n A"OS                                                    ______000dB00                                                     C
:    :   |   3   I                   :                                                                                              5         l F        15       '5' 1                      %    g 25t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M. 1 t 3
.~~~~                                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~ ~~                ~        ~     ~      ~~~~~~~ U  Mcoo  IV,Y~  L  EIy S  --o Dm 
A  E;--d -               5                   20    25 _
,w>-  1 2;D 4C                                                   ,~1 R., 1 ,400S59RiA rX                                             XS
M e; d,z te  e                                                                                                                                  MSe
SVV 4005 V                                                                                                  -0
4,000 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~      ~       ~       ~      ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~      0( 
Sffi Abd.I R.h- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ 
F,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~Y,






I BR D 12325
:  ;  :  ::  A A: : !: : ; : : :: :  :  Of T<7SEF. 1976~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OCOBR  07
ARAB  REPUBLIC  Of  E9YPT
ALEXANDRIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
IR03600                           a ES PN WAATED  *   wAYeRKS 6006TE695 KSAND OOOSTERiS ASCEP 60 ARIA.
-  EXISUTNA lAiNS  iMi9 Fl           *   WATERWoRKDEDtt NSDi4sANO BOOSTERS FINANCED SY DANK                                          i
I*     PROPOSED PIUMiNG STAT IONS   :
IL*    EXisErAmPIWINIAG STATIFONS
ITANALS
;   , +  RAlILWAYS                                         I :
- T-I- /OSGTOAL _.GROAS;                                                                                                     :
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  FO  7-;,9A?   :: L . Av^s 5,A                                                                                                                   MIT-  ERWO   
"A     iEIE                              I0 1   \ N *                                               LlyR 04 MAI AIRAI
v,                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~TO 1 OAD   .                                                                                   X t 
/F/                                                  RA'T
L-                --   - T\ 
l                                                                                                                                                        ,-d;V eivjw        w.ww ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ d. . -22 uA7  ,       SUDAN                 tt       \\~~~~~~~~~~~~~h"  2V-A
1~                                              _______________________________________________2___________



