Document of
FILE COPY                          The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1929a-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
ALEXANDRIA IWATER GENERAL AUTHORITY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
February 8, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                            US$2.56 or SDR 2.118
1 US Dollar                                      LE 0.391
Parallel Market Rate
Until February 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                            US$1.70
1 US Dollar                                      LE 0.59
From February to May 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                            US$1.56
1 US Dollar                                      LE 0.64
From May 21, 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                            US$1.47
1 US Dollar                                      LE 0.68
From December 1, 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                            US$1.43
1 US Dollar                                      LE 0.70
ABBREVIATIONS
M&LT - Medium and Long Term
AWA - The Alexandria Water General Authority
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
ALEXANDRIA WATER GENERAL AUTHORITY WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$56 million to the Alexandria Water General
Authority with the guarantee of the Arab Republic of Egypt for a water sup-
ply project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including 4-1/2 years
of grace, with interest at 8.50 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Report on the Arab Republic of Egypt (No. 870a-EGT),
dated January 5, 1976, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A
basic economic mission visited Egypt in May/June 1976 and its report is
under preparation. An updating mission visited Egypt in October 1976; the
findings of both missions are incorporated in this report. A further mission
was in Egypt in late January to review the most recent economic developments.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        From 1960 to 1966 Egypt experienced a high rate of growth (around
6 percent a year in real terms) under a system of fairly rigid centralized
planning and control. This system came under increasing pressure in the
second half of the decade following a combination of bad harvests and in-
creased defense expenditures (particularly as a result of the civil war in
Yemen). The situation deteriorated further after the war of 1967, with the
loss of the Sinai oil fields, the closure of the Suez Canal, the abandonment
of the Canal cities and the cost of resettling their population (of about a
million), and the virtual cessation of Western economic assistance. With the
military confrontation in the Middle East continuing, Egypt further increased
its defense spending at the expense both of other types of consumption and
of its development program. Thus, in 1973 the economic picture was one of
rigorously curtailed private consumption and inadequate investment, with a
deteriorating capital stock of both infrastructure and productive facilities.
The growth of the GDP in 1967-73 averaged only 3.5 percent a year in real
terms.
4.        The changed political situation after October 1973 laid the ground-
work for a new "open-door" policy enunciated by President Sadat and approved
in a national referendum in May 1974. This policy reflects a major effort to
accelerate economic development through modernization and by changing Egypt's
largely publicly owned and centrally controlled economy to a more market-
oriented one. Specifically, the policy envisaged decentralization of
decision-making in state-owned enterprises, liberalization of the private
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only is the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wrid Dank authorization.



sector, incentives to stimulate and encourage private foreign investment and
expanded economic cooperation with Arab countries. Since 1974 Egypt has
initiated a number of steps in furtherance of these principles, which are ex-
pected to lead to a significant restructuring of the economy. In particular,
steps have been taken to remove some of the heavy restrictions on private
business activities, to decentralize public enterprise management, to encourage
foreign private investment, to expand foreign exchange transactions outside
the official rate, and to loosen many of the restraints on banking activities.
5.        The provision of substantial inflows of external assistance by both
Arab countries and Western aid donors and institutions have eased some of the
problems of the Egyptian economy in making the transition. However, major
structural difficulties remain; these are largely a result of the continuing
tension in the region and the diversion of resources away from investment over
a long period. These structural difficulties are also linked to the major
immediate weaknesses of the economy, which may be identified as the large
deficit in the balance of payments, the low level of government savings, and
low efficiency and capacity utilization in the public sector enterprises.
6.        The present government was formed in November 1976 following elec-
tions to the People's Assembly, which were the first in which a choice of
candidates representing diverse political views was offered to the voters.
The Cabinet has been strengthened on the economic side, and a Deputy Prime
Minister for economic and financial affairs has been appointed to coordinate
economic policy-making. Moreover, President Sadat has directed that economic
questions should be in the forefront of the new Cabinet's tasks.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        National Income, Investment and Growth.    GDP growth in real terms
increased from less than 3 percent in 1973 to about 6 percent in 1974 and an
estimated 10.9 percent in 1975 1/; the rise is attributed largely to recovery
of industrial activity (as aid-financed inputs increasingly became available),
increased construction (particularly in the Canal Zone) and growth of trade
and services. In 1974, the largest gains were experienced in industry and
petroleum (13 percent), construction (11 percent) and services (9 percent).
Agricultural output grew by about 3 percent, largely as a result of favorable
weather. The high rate of growth for 1975 estimated by the Ministry of Plan-
ning is in part due to the gains to the economy accruing from the recovery
of the Sinai oil fields (November 1975) and the reopening of the Suez Canal
(June 1975). If their effect on growth of the gross domestic product is
excluded, the overall growth rate is estimated (by the Ministry of Planning)
at 9.2 percent. Preliminary production data for 1976 indicates that the
economy continued to expand. The rate of growth likely to have been achieved
(6-7 percent), however, reflects capacity constraints which were increasingly
experienced in major sectors.
1/   Ministry of Planning; these estimates are, however, likely to be on
the high side and are currently being revised.



- 3 -
8.        Egypt was able to sustain a higher level of investment during 1974
and 1975, largely as a result of generous external assistance from Arab coun-
tries. Gross fixed investment increased from $1,169 million in 1973 (which
was significantly below the 1965/66 level in real terms), to $1,638 million
in 1974 and to a preliminary estimate of $2,406 million in 1975 (current
1976 prices). There was also considerable replenishment of stocks, which had
been drawn down in the pre-October 1973 period. During 1976, as a result of
shortages of both domestic and foreign resources, only the first tranche
($2,130 million) of the proposed investment program of $3,072 million is
expected to be implemented.
9.        Public Finance.   Because of the preponderance of the public sector
in Egypt, the bulk of the country's domestic financial resources for develop-
ment are mobilized through the state budget and public sector corporations.
Considerable efforts have been made in the past to increase such resources,
largely by way of taxation. Average tax revenues were 18 percent of GNP
during 1973/74, and are estimated to have increased further to 20 percent of
GNP during 1975. Public enterprises (although hampered by Government-imposed
pricing policies) and social insurance and pension funds also mobilize sub-
stantial resources; these were estimated at 6 percent and 5 percent of GNP,
respectively, in 1975. Total public resources reached 35 percent of GNP
in 1975, a major effort for a country of Egypt's low per capita income.
10.       The high level of Government current expenditures, however, absorbed
most of these resources. This was almost entirely due to the level of defense
expenditures, and, more recently, to the growth of subsidies, which increased
from $481 million (about 5 percent of GNP) in 1973 to $1,576 million (about 13
percent of GNP) in 1975, as the Government endeavored to protect domestic con-
sumers from the sharp increases in the import prices of foodstuffs and other
essential commodities. While exact data on defense spending are not available
(since a large portion is channelled through a separate account--the Emergency
Fund) it appears that the defense burden on the budget eased over this period.
While increasing moderately in absolute terms--from $1,100 million in 1973 to
$1,220 million in 1976--budgeted defense spending declined, as a proportion
of total current expenditures, from about 39 percent in 1973 to about 25 per-
cent in 1976. Expenditures on economic and social services provided by the
Government (education, health, etc.) as well as other general expenditures
have risen at approximately the same rate of GNP.
11.       With increased current spending, public savings declined between
1973 and 1975--from 4 percent of GNP in 1973 to less than 1 percent of GNP
in 1975. The revised 1976 budget, however, reflects the Government's in-
tention to increase public sector savings through both increases in revenues
(including increases in the customs duty tax - see para 16) and cuts in
expenditure. As of May 1, 1976, a number of subsidies were abolished at a
savings of $90 million at an annual rate. Declines in international prices
will also help cut the subsidy bill in 1976, although it is still likely to
be around $1,470 million or about 11 percent of GNP.



-4-
12.       The squeeze in public savings has resulted in increased government
borrowing from the banking system. Money and quasi-money increased by 29
percent in 1974 and 20 percent in 1975--substantially in excess of increases
in domestic output. As a result inflation has continued at a high rate. The
official consumer price index estimates price increases of around 10 percent
in 1974 and 1975, but actual inflation rates were probably higher.
13.       The Balance of Payments.   Despite an increase in the value of com-
modity exports by 56 percent between 1973 and 1975 (largely as a result of
improved international prices) export earnings fell well short of imports.
Indeed, the country's import bill almost tripled in this period as a result
of increases in quantities imported, coupled with soaring food and other
prices. Egypt's export receipts were influenced by declines in the physical
production of certain field crops (particularly cotton) due to a shift towards
more profitable cash crops (fruits, vegetables, clover) and increased domestic
demand for exportable products. As a result, the quantities of some important
exports, particularly cotton, declined.
14.       The imbalance in Egypt's trade was compensated to some extent by
fast-growing earnings from services and from workers' remittances. Never-
theless, the overall deficit on the trade and services account reached record
levels, increasing from $654 million in 1973 to $1,632 million in 1974 and
$2,480 million in 1975.
15.       Developments during the first half of 1976 suggest that the external
deficit may have been more manageable in that year. Exports are projected to
increase by about 28 percent, while imports are expected to show a modest fall,
since in the first six months of 1976, imports were running at about 70 percent
of their level in the corresponding period of 1975. In large part, this de-
cline was due to a slowdown in stock-building and a decision to abandon the
second tranche of the 1976 investment program and restrict imports of capital
goods. Thus while there were some reductions in imports of consumer goods
and intermediates as well, a smaller deficit may have been purchased at least
partly at the cost of Egypt's future growth.
16.       Recent Policy Actions.   Beginning in 1976, the Government, in close
consultation with the Bank and the IMF, began to undertake a series of policy
actions aimed at making more effective use of foreign resources, curbing ex-
cess consumption, and improving allocative efficiency. Thus (i) the parallel
exchange market was widened to encompass almost 15 percent of convertible cur-
rency imports (excluding "supply" or mass consumption commodities); (ii) the
parallel market rate itself was further depreciated to about 56 percent of
the official rate; (iii) parallel market imports were valued for customs
duties at the parallel market exchange rate (a measure equivalent to an in-
crease of about 80 percent in the tariff on applicable imports); (iv) ceilings
on interest rates were removed and interest rates increased; and (v) the
"general organizations" that exercised rigid control over public industrial
enterprises were dissolved and replaced by "Higher Councils", which permit
somewhat more initiative to the individual enterprises.



- 5-
Development Problems and Prospects
17.       Egypt's rapidly growing population, widespread poverty and dilapi-
dated infrastructure require the generation of more resources for investment
and a more rigorous determination of priorities of projects into which they
are channelled. In turn, this implies a greater restraint on the growth of
consumption, the removal of constraints created by inadequate infrastructure
(particulary ports, power, transport, and telecommunications), and a greater
emphasis on quick yielding projects. In more concrete terms, this will mean
curtailing budgetary subsidies; a more active use of prices (including the
price of foreign exchange) as indicators of relative scarcities; more emphasis
on completing ongoing projects than on starting new ones; a streamlining of
bureaucratic processes; a larger role for the agricultural sector (and within
agriculture, a greater emphasis on the "old" lands as opposed to further rec-
lamation projects); a vigorous move towards increasing industry's efficiency
and making it more export-oriented and employment-generating (which would
involve using existing industrial capacity more fully, paying more attention
to considerations of quality and encouraging small-scale industry); a strength-
ened program to curb the growth of population and the articulation of urban
and rural strategies which would decentralize the growth of the urban popula-
tion away from Cairo and Alexandria, and create more productive opportunities
in smaller towns and the rural areas. It is expected that these issues will
be addressed in the framework of a medium-term plan which is expected to be
approved by the Government very shortly.
18.       Over the long-run, Egypt's economic potential is considerable.   The
reasons for this are in brief: (i) the country has a large domestic market, a
proficient population, low wages, varied raw materials, and a key geographical
location, which makes it a natural base for industries that wishi to supply the
growing regional market; (ii) Suez Canal revenues are estimated to continue to
rise gradually until the Canal's expansion program is completed in about 1979.
There is likely to be a substantial increase in revenues starting in 1980 re-
sulting from the Canal's increased capacity; (iii) Egypt's improved prospects
for oil production, which is put (by the oil companies) at one million barrels
a day by 1980-82 exceeding substantially domestic requirements; (iv) consider-
ably increased earnings from tourism which reached an estimated $332 million
in 1975; (v) the possibility of using agricultural land more intensely with
greater emphasis on high-value crops; and (vi) an increasing flow of remit-
tances ($546 million in 1975) from Egyptians working in the richer Arab
countries of the region.
19.       However, realizing the long-term potential hinges upon a number of
complex factors, some of which are not within Egypt's control. The most im-
portant of these is a definite movement towards an equitable and definitive
peace settlement in the Middle East. Moreover, to achieve its long-term
potential, Egypt requires the transfer of large amounts of capital from
abroad; this, in turn, must be preceded by a considerable amount of work on
preparing a suitable portfolio of projects for the consideration of potential
investors (whether private or official). And finally, it requires fundamental
changes in economic policies and institutions. Hence, it will probably take
5-10 years to achieve a significant restructuring of the economy.



-6-
External Assistance
20.       Egypt obtained substantial amounts of external aid until the mid-
1960s. Thereafter, new commitments of Western assistance practically ceased;
and the gross inflow of medium- and long-term capital fell by nearly 50 per-
cent immediately after the 1967 war. Although aid levels gradually rose
again, net inflows from Western countries averaged only $10-12 million
annually in medium- and long-term capital over the five-year period FY1968-72;
in 1973 amortization payments were some $7 million greater than disbursements.
During the period 1968-1973, non-military aid from Eastern countries, esti-
mated to have been in excess of $1,200 million, financed the bulk of Egypt's
development.
21.       Since 1973 the substantial deficits on the goods and services ac-
count have been financed primarily by official Arab grants, loans and deposits
with the Central Bank of Egypt (see Annex I, page 4). Western medium- and
long-term (M&LT) capital assistance was restored after October 1973. However,
because of the slow disbursements inherent in the aid process, and the heavy
repayments due on past loans even through 1973, net M&LT transfers from OECD
countries to Egypt have not been very large. The aid commitments from the
OECD countries have, however, led to a strong aid pipeline, and it is esti-
mated that there have been substantial inflows in 1976 (about $480 million)
which should continue in 1977.
22.       As mentioned earlier, the deficit on goods and services increased
from $654 million in 1973 to $1.63 billion in 1974 and reached $2.48 billion
in 1975. This deficit was financed in 1974 through unrequited transfers
($1,306 million, of which $1,264 million was Arab governmental grants), short-
term foreign borrowing or use of banking facilities ($585 million, net) and
drawdown of reserves. The medium- and long-term capital account (including
suppliers' credits) showed a deficit in 1974 of $159 million, reflecting the
burden of repaying the outstanding foreign debt and the slow disbursement on
new commitments.
23.       During 1975, Egypt received unrequited transfers of $1,029 million
(of which $988 million were official Arab grants). Additional Arab assistance
took the form of loans to and deposits in the Central Bank of Egypt ($1,580
million). Net M&LT capital inflows in 1975 (including suppliers' credits)
amounted to $378 million largely as a result of an Iranian cash loan of $320
million. Other significant monetary movements involved the reduction of in-
debtedness on the bilateral accounts (by $241 million) and reduction of short-
term indebtedness ($264 million, net).
24.       The outlook for 1976 is for a substantial reduction in the deficit
on goods and services largely as a result of reduced imports as well as in-
creased receipts from the petroleum sector and the Suez Canal. However, the
absolute level of the deficit will still be high--it is currently projected
at about $1.8 billion. Commitments of aid in 1976 include grants of $300
million from Saudi Arabia and $143 million from Arab countries under the



Khartoum agreement, $150 million on concessionary terms from the United Arab
Emirates (UAE) and Qatar and $300 million from Kuwait, UAE and Qatar as a
deposit in the Central Bank. In addition a $2.0 billion fund--the Gulf
Association for Economic Development in Egypt--has been created by Saudi
Arabia, Kuwait, UAE and Qatar to participate in the financing of Egypt's
development program. During 1976 this fund committed a $250 million cash loan
to Egypt and also guaranteed a Euro-dollar loan of another $250 million to
Egypt from a consortium of American and European banks. Amongst western aid
donors, the US Government is currently committing about $700 million of proj-
ect and commodity aid per annum (in addition to about $200 million of food
assistance under US Law PL 480). Aid from the other OECD countries, espe-
cially France, Germany and Japan is expected to remain at the increased levels
of 1974/75. The European Community is providing increasing amounts of food
aid; moreover, in January 1977 the Community signed a financial protocol with
Egypt committing over a five year period, $70 million in grants and $119
million in concessional loans. Total disbursements of foreign aid are esti-
mated to have reached $2,628 million in 1976, of which $575 million were
grants, $300 million deposits in the Central Bank, and $1,753 million medium-
and long-term loans. With amortization payments estimated at $553 million,
net inflows of M&LT loans are estimated at $1,200 million.
25.       Consultative Group.   In July 1976, Egypt requested the Bank to set
up a Consultative Group comprising a number of oil-producing Arab countries,
major western countries (including Japan) and Iran. Given the favorable
responses received from prospective members of the Group, an introductory
meeting (focussing on financing requirements for 1977) is planned to be
held in April 1977.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
26.       Egypt's non-military medium and long-term debt outstanding and dis-
bursed at December 31, 1975 was estimated at $5,101 million, which was almost
double the amount at end-1974 ($2,760 million). During the first nine months
of 1976 the debt rose to $5,616 million. Of this, M&LT loans amounted to
$2,989 million (of which $801 million in clearing currencies), M&LT deposits
in the Central Bank to $1,942 million, suppliers' credits to $685 million
(of which $74 million in clearing currencies). Major creditors were Saudi
Arabia, Kuwait, USSR, USA, Abu Dhabi and Iran. IBRD/IDA debt comprised about
2.8 percent of the total. Debt service on medium- and long-term debt was esti-
mated to amount to $680 million in 1975, giving a debt service ratio of 24
percent. No reliable estimates of military debt are available; Egypt is still
making efforts to obtain rescheduling of service payments on such debt.
27.       While the bulk of external assistance to Egypt was obtained on
highly concessional terms (the grant element of total commitments during
1975 is estimated at 42 percent), the continued high level of short-term
indebtedness continued to be a cause of serious concern. Commercial bankers
credit facilities outstanding (including undisbursed) amounted to $2,094 mil-
lion at the end of September, 1976 of which $1,381 million were disbursed.



-8-
The liquidity requirements of this type of indebtedness created severe
problems for Egypt and arrears in repayments of up to 60 days were reported
during the latter half of 1976.
28.       The liquidity problems arising from Egypt's short-term indebtedness
can only be solved through either "funding" this debt on a long-term basis,
or by gradually reducing it over time. However, further measures will be re-
quired to assure a permanent improvement and firm establishment of Egypt's
creditworthiness. These include:
(i) further control over consumption expenditures (primarily
through rationalization of consumption subsidies) and
measures to increase domestic savings, while protecting
lower income groups through appropriate pricing, fiscal,
and other policies;
(ii) promotion of efficient resource allocation through further
widening the parallel foreign exchange market and pursuing
price policies that would better reflect economic scarcities;
(iii) continued reduction in the use of short-term lending facili-
ties, an improvement in the time-profile of external debt,
and implementation of a debt management program;
(iv) the preparation of a medium-term plan that would provide a
rational framework for investment decisions and policies
and for the provision of external development assistance.
29.       The Government's recent policy actions (discussed in paragraph 16
above) have initiated the process of structural adjustments required by
Egypt's economic situation and international environment. The situation
however requires continuing review and further action. At the Government's
request, the Bank has arranged to review developments in the economy by eco-
nomic missions three or four times a year.
30.       If progress towards curbing both consumption expenditures and
imports is maintained and the country's export earnings potential realized,
Egypt's foreign capital inflow requirements are estimated at about $2.25
billion per annum for the remainder of the decade. This is expected to be
financed by M&LT capital assistance (including grants) of about $1.95 billion
per annum, private capital inflows ($100 million in 1977 rising to about $250
million in 1980) and suppliers' credits. The capital inflows expected are
large--but if they are forthcoming on the terms expected, Egypt would have
the debt servicing capacity to borrow the amounts envisaged, including a
limited amount on harder terms. The burden of servicing MLT debt, as a
percentage of total foreign exchange earnings, is expected to decline from
24 percent in 1975 to about 22 percent in 1976 and an estimated 17 percent in
1980. In these circumstances Egypt may be considered creditworthy for a
limited amount of Bank lending.



-9-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
31.       The proposed loan would be the World Bank's twenty fourth 1/ lending
operation in Egypt. It would bring Bank and IDA commitments made since 1970
to $680.5 million. Annex II contains a Summary of Bank loans and IDA credits
as of December 31, 1976, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
32.       The principal objective of the Bank/IDA lending program in Egypt
is to provide foreign exchange in support of its development program through
lending for (i) increasing utilization of available productive capacity, (ii)
projects which would increase production and foreign exchange earnings or sub-
stitute for imports, particularly in the key industrial and agricultural sec-
tors, (iii) projects aimed at rehabilitation and expanding infrastructure
necessary to facilitate development, and (iv) selected social sectors, namely
population and education. The impact of Bank/IDA participation in projects
has been widened by attracting additional foreign exchange required for most
of these projects from other donors. Besides the technical assistance in-
cluded under the Bank/IDA projects, the Bank is acting as Executing Agency for
a UNDP-financed National Power Sector Survey and has been asked to act as
Executing Agency for a study which will prepare a Master Plan for Water
Resources and Uses.    Work on the latter is expected to begin early this year.
The Bank has also extended limited technical assistance in April 1976 in the
preparation of a five-year development plan.
33.       The projects financed in FY75 and FY76 were in support of the stra-
tegy outlined in the preceding paragraph. Preparation of projects for future
lending is following the same line. Projects for rural electrification,
drainage of further lands in the Nile Delta and the expansion of the Suez
Canal have been appraised. A pipeline of projects for possible future lending
is also being developed, comprising additional projects in the water supply
and sewerage, education and power sectors, and in agriculture including
drainage, and industry.
34.       Bank Group disbursements will continue in 1976 to represent less
than 10 percent of Egypt's overall capital inflow requirements. The Bank/IDA
share of total external debt outstanding and disbursed was less than 1 percent
at the end of 1975. For the future, the Bank/IDA share of total external debt
outstanding and disbursed (excluding military debts) is estimated to reach
about 11 percent in 1980, of which the Bank share would be about 7 percent.
It is estimated that in 1980, debt service payments due to the Bank and IDA
will represent about 3 percent of service payments due on Egypt's external
debt.
1/   Assuming the loan for this project will be considered by the Executive
Directors after the $25 million credit for the Education Project.



- 10 -
35.       The first IFC participation and lending, for a ceramics project,
was approved by the Executive Directors in April 1976. IFC is also discussing
several other private sector and joint venture projects.
PART III - WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE IN EGYPT
Background
36.       Located at the northeastern corner of Africa, the Arab Republic of
Egypt is a crossroads of three major continents. Two vast deserts constitute
the major landmass in the country. Between them flows the Nile River, which
carves a valley 1,500 km. long. North of Cairo, the Nile divides into the
Damietta and Rosetta branches, forming a delta which reaches to the Mediter-
ranean. Most of Egypt's population of about 37 million which is growing at
about 2.5 percent per annum, and most of the country's economic activity
is concentrated around Cairo and in the Delta, an area which accounts for
less than 4 percent of the country's land area of 1 million km2. Cairo,
Egypt's capital, is the largest city of the country with a population of
about 7.5 million. Alexandria, the second largest city, has 2.4 million
inhabitants.
Water Resources
37.       The predominant source of water for Egypt is the Nile River, which
provides an assured supply of some 55 billion m3 of water each year. In-
creasing use of water is moving Egypt towards a situation where a lack of
adequate water supply will not only inhibit economic growth but, if allowed
to continue, will also endanger the health of the population. The Government
has therefore requested the Bank to act as executing agency for a UNDP-financed
Master Plan for the Water Resources and Uses in Egypt which is expected to
commence shortly. The Master Plan will be prepared against the long-term
perspective of Egypt's social and economic development over the next 25 years,
but will be designed also to give recommendations on short-term policy and
investment issues.
38.       Treated and filtered water is estimated by Government sources to be
available to approximately 80 percent of the urban population and 20-25 per-
cent of the rural population. Potable water is drawn from two sources; either
artesian wells, or directly from the Nile and irrigation canals. South of
Cairo, artesian water is usually of good quality although sometimes containing
iron and manganese salts. To the north of Cairo and in the Fayoun Depression,
artesian water is characteristically brackish and may require filtration and
blending with sweeter surface water. Artesian water in the coastal areas of
the Delta is generally not suitable for human consumption, and communities
depend entirely on surface water.



Institutional Arrangements
39.       Provision of drinking water in Egypt is the responsibility of four
public institutions. In Cairo and Alexandria, separate Authorities which
commenced operations as private utility companies in the last century are now
responsible to the local Governor. Prior to 1967, the Canal Zone cities were
served by the Suez Canal Authority; responsibility has now been handed to the
Ministry of Housing and Reconstruction. Water production and supply in all
other Governorates, both urban and rural, is the responsibility of the General
Authority for Potable Water.
40.       The responsibility for the provision of sewerage services throughout
Egypt lies with the General Authority for Sewerage and Sanitary Drainage. The
Authority designs, constructs, and maintains sewerage and drainage facilities
in all Egyptian towns, including the maintenance of the Alexandria and Cairo
sewerage systems. Its technical services are made available to the Gover-
norates which operate and maintain provincial sewerage and drainage systems.
In addition to Cairo, Alexandria and the Canal Zone cities, 10 cities in Lower
Egypt and four cities in Upper Egypt have sewerage systems. Drainage systems
without any form of treatment facilities exist in a further 12 Delta towns.
Sector Constraints and Policies
41.       Only about two-thirds of population has access to piped drinking
water. Water supply is generally of poor quality. The distribution systems
are old, underdesigned, and losses through leakage are substantial. The poor
state of plumbing and the waste at the public standpipes also cause heavy
losses. Consequently only about 60 percent of total water production capacity
is available for consumption. The organization of the water sector is not
able to cope effectively with the problems of the sector because Central
Government involvement in planning and program implementation has stifled
local accountability and initiative. Water tariffs are low and furthermore 65
percent of revenues generated revert to the central budget from which funds
for new construction and operating costs must in turn be obtained by the
authorities. To improve the situation, new effective organizations must be
created and investments must be increased substantially.
42.       By supporting the proposed water project in Alexandria - which
represents the first Bank involvement in Egypt's public utilities sector -
the Bank is associating itself with one of the more efficient public utility
organizations. Through this project, the Bank should be able to assist the
Alexandria Water Authority overcome some of the organizational and invest-
ment problems described above. Furthermore, by selecting one of the more
efficient organizations in the sector as the first borrower, we hope that
the Alexandria Water Authority will be able to serve as a model for other



- 12 -
water and perhaps also for sewerage authorities. We shall propose addi-
tional water and also sewerage projects in the future. Experience with
the Alexandria Water Authority shall also be helpful to the Bank in planning
other urban projects. Forty-two percent of Egypt's population were living
in urban areas in 1974. This proportion is higher than that in most other
countries at comparable stage of development.
Water Supply in Alexandria
43.       The area to benefit from the proposed project includes the city
and the Governorate of Alexandria as well as parts of the adjacent Governo-
rates of Behera and Mersa Matruh (some 300 km to the west). Alexandria is
heavily residential, houses a university with all major faculties, is an
important industrial and commercial center, and is the country's major port.
While Alexandria has a population density of about 900 persons/km2, the
adjacent Governorates of Behera and Mersa Matruh which are mostly agriculture-
oriented, have densities of 244 and 0.5, respectively. AWA's source of water
are the Mamoudia and Nubariya Canals fed from the Rosetta branch of the Nile.
AWA supplies treated potable water from five existing treatment plants with a
combined rated capacity of 550,000 m3/day. The water is delivered through
about 2000 kms of water mains to some 2.6 million inhabitants and to the
industrial and shipping sector.
44.       Present consumption of water averages about 110 liters per capita
per day (lcd) for domestic consumers and 50 lcd equivalent for industry and
government buildings. It is estimated, however, that about 38% of total
water production is unaccounted for mainly due to inaccurate or inoperative
meters, theft and unquantified system loss. AWA has agreed therefore to
(i) undertake a leak detection study within twelve months of loan signing
and to review its findings with the Government and the Bank, and (ii) carry
out a study on the adequacy of existing metering and report its findings to
the Government and the Bank not later than June 30, 1977 (Sections 4.06 (a)
and 4.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The Alexandria Water General Authority
45.       The Alexandria Water General Authority (AWA), the borrower under
the proposed project, was founded in 1879 as a limited company, and operated
under expatriate management until 1954, when a wholly Egyptian management
took over. In 1961, AWA was nationalized and its former owners compensated.
It was constituted as a General Authority in 1968, with responsibility for
the provision of potable water to consumers in the city and Governorate of
Alexandria and parts of the Governorates of Behera and Mersa Matruh.
46.       AWA has a Board of Directors of fifteen members which is respon-
sible for supervising its affairs. However, the approval of AWA's budget,
capital expenditure plans and tariff proposals falls within the respons-
ibility of the legislative authority of the Alexandria Governorate, i.e.,
the Local Council. AWA's management is headed by the chairman and two vice-
chairmen, the latter two being responsible for technical and financial/



- 13 -
administrative matters, respectively. Technical operations are decentralized
in five operating areas corresponding to the supply areas of AWA's existing
water treatment plants. Each area is responsible for its own customer service,
billing and collection.
47.       AWA has a cadre of professional experts, many trained technicians
and capable operating staff. In general, such staff are recruited through
public advertisement or, as in the case of newly graduated engineers, using
a list from the Ministry of Labor. All staff are subject to a six-month
probation period on appointment. Because of the application of general gov-
ernment public sector employment policies AWA faces the handicap of a salary
policy which relates salary progression to length of service rather than to
individual performance and an employment policy which constrains an employer's
right to dismiss unsatisfactory personnel. However, new labor legislation
scheduled to be enacted early this year is expected to improve terms and con-
ditions for public sector employees. Despite the drawbacks mentioned above,
AWA is responsibly managed, performs relatively well and tries to account
properly for every branch of its activities. AWA has agreed to continue to
select and appoint its staff in accordance with appropriate administrative,
business and public utility practices (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). AWA will, however, need to strengthen its techniques of management
cor.Ltrcl and performance monitoring. It has therefore agreed to employ man-
agement consultants within six months of the date of the Loan Agreement who
will help to design and install such techniques and to train AWA's personnel
in their use (Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
48.       The project was identified by a Bank mission which visited Egypt
in November 1975. The project was prepared by the Alexandria Water General
Authority (AWA), with the assistance of Bank staff, and appraised in May 1976.
Negotiations were held in Washington from December 6 to 10, 1976. AWA was
reFresented by Eng. Abdel Wahab and Mr. Ahmed Chohayeb, Chairman and Vice
Chairman, respectively, and the Arab Republic of Egypt by Dr. Wagih Shindy,
Undersecretary of State, Ministry of Economy and Economic Cooperation. A
report entitled "Appraisal of the Alexandria Water Supply Project, Egypt"
(No. 1292-EGT), dated January 4, 1977, is being distributed separately.
Project Objectives and Description
49.       The proposed project which is part of AWA's 1976-1982 expansion
program is designed to provide an additional water treatment capacity of
350,000 m3 per day to (i) help AWA meet future demand and overcome a water
deficit now only being met at the expense of water quality, and (ii) provide
reliable water meters to help improve billing and to reduce unaccounted-for
water. The remaining part of this expansion program which would add 250,000
m3,/day water treatment capacity and for which Government finance has been
se-ured, is already underway. The expansion of the water treatment capacity



- 14 -
through the project proposed for Bank financing and the Government financed
project would eventually help raise AWA's combined production capacity to
1,150,000 m3/day and help supply an additional 1.4 million inhabitants and
serve new industries. Improvements in operational and management techniques
as a result of the proposed project should serve as a pattern for water supply
operations in other parts of the country.
50.       The project would consist of the following:
-    extension of three existing plants and construction of
a new water treatment plant;
-    installation of trunk water mains and booster stations;
-    renewal of operational equipment;
-    purchase of self-propelled water barges to supply ships
in the Port of Alexandria;
-    procurement of trucks and operational vehicles, and water
meters;
-    management and engineering consultants and training.
The main features of the loan and project are summarized in Annex III.    A map
showing the location of the proposed water treatment plants is also attached.
Cost Estimates and Financing
51.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$121.7 million, of
which US$56.0 million, or 46 percent, are foreign exchange costs. With the
proposed loan of US$56 million, the Bank would finance the foreign exchange
costs. AWA and the Government will contribute US$65.7 million equivalent to-
ward the local costs of the project. The Government is providing a loan of
LE 28 million which would meet AWA's domestic borrowing requirements for its
1977-81 investment program (including this project). AWA itself is contribut-
ing LE 16 million to its investment program (Section 2.02(d) of the draft
Guarantee Agreement). The Government has also agreed to provide any additional
funds which may be required to meet any cost overruns which AWA is not able to
meet from its own resources (Section 2.02 (e) of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
A more detailed description on the project costs is provided in Annex III.
Project Implementation
52.       The project will be carried out by AWA over a 4-1/2 year period and
is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981. Detailed design of the
water treatment works has not yet started. It will be completed after equip-
ment has been selected following international competitive bidding. A team of
AWA engineers has already been assigned responsibility for project design and



- 15 -
execution, but this group will require assistance in preparing specifications,
bid documents and in the evaluation of bids. Accordingly 48 man-months of
consultancy has been included under the project for this purpose. AWA has
agreed to employ suitably qualified consultants on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank within five months of the date of the Loan Agreement
(Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
53.       AWA has title to the land it requires for the expansion of its
facilities, except for the expansion of one water treatment plant. AWA
has therefore agreed to acquire land required for the expansion of treatment
plants and facilities included under the proposed project (Section 3.05 of the
draft Loan Agreement). As for the availability of water, AWA has guaranteed
abstraction rights from the two existing supply canals and agreement has al-
ready been reached with the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation that its
future requirements will be met. A canal presently being extended for irriga-
tion and general use will supply the new treatment plant and enlargements of
the existing canals will meet the needs of plants to be extended.
54.       The management consultants' services under the project (para. 47
above) are to develop improved management techniques including in particular
budgetary control and cost accounting, and to strengthen AWA's personnel
policies with special reference to performance monitoring and the provision
of incentives to encourage efficiency and improve morale. The consultants
would assist in the implementation of agreed findings of their studies and in
training of AWA staff.
Procurement
55.       Contracts for civil works and equipment would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines
for procurement. Small contracts of $10,000 or less for items of equipment,
material, supplies and vehicles to be compatible with existing equipment or
items which because of their specialized nature and for reasons of economy are
normally procured without international competitive bidding may be awarded on
a competitive basis to reliable suppliers after having obtained price quota-
tions, whenever practicable, from at least three such suppliers. The aggregate
expenditure for items so procured would, however, not exceed $300,000. There
are about 6 construction enterprises in Egypt capable of executing the proj-
ect's civil works component. One or more of these are expected to win the
civil works contracts after international competitive bidding. All major
items of equipment and pipes which form part of the construction contracts
will be separately bid and imported. AWA has agreed to group contracts for
equipment and materials to attract international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines (Schedule 4, Section A.2 of the draft
Loan Agreement). For purposes of bid evaluation domestic manufacturers would
be allowed a margin of preference of 15 percent or the actual customs duty,
whichever is lower. Egyptian manufacturers are not expected to be awarded
contracts the total value of which would exceed $1 million.



- 16 -
Disbursement
56.       The proposed loan would be disbursed as follows:    (i) 30 percent of
total expenditures of civil works for treatment plants and pipes, (ii) 100
percent of foreign expenditures of equipment and materials imported directly,
100 percent of local expenditures ex-factory and 75 percent of expenditures
for imported goods procured locally, and (iii) 100 percent of foreign or 80
percent of total expenditures for expatriate or local, as the case may be,
engineering and consultant services.
Financial Position
57.       AWA's equity capital is owned by the Government and it totalled
US$11.3 million at the end of 1975. Reserves less accumulated losses at
that time totalled US$3.6 milion. During the last three years, 1973-1975,
AWA suffered losses totalling US$5.4 million. AWA's internally generated
cash flow was insufficient to finance working capital and debt service, and
AWA was therefore unable to make any contribution to its own capital works
program during these years. Funds to meet AWA's cash deficit have been pro-
vided by the Government through loans totalling US$43.5 million at end 1975.
No formal loan agreements have been executed and no repayment schedule has
been determined.
58.       In view of the above, AWA's debt equity ratio at the beginning of
1976 was 75:25. This is clearly an unsatisfactory starting point for an in-
vestment program involving further substantial debt. To establish AWA on a
sounder basis and to minimize the tariff increases necessary to cover debt
service during the project construction period, the Government has agreed to:
(i) convert into equity AWA's total loan debt as of December 31,
1976, estimated at about LE 22 million (US$56.3 million);
(ii) waive any interest charges to AWA for 1976; and
(iii) contribute to AWA during 1977 such additional sums as may
be required to bring AWA's total equity capital to LE 32
million (US$82.0 million equivalent).
(Sections 2.02 (a), (b), and (c) of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
59.       Through the conversion of AWA's existing loan debt into equity and
through the granting of the proposed Bank loan and the Government loan to
finance the balance of the 1976-82 expansion program (para. 49), AWA would
be able to carry out the expansion program while maintaining a debt-equity
ratio which only slightly exceeds 50:50 at the maximum (1981). AWA's cash
flow would be adequate to support the envisaged level of borrowing, and debt
service is covered at least 1.5 times by net cash generation from operations
except in 1982. AWA has agreed not to incur any further loan debt unless debt
service is covered at least 1.5 times by operational revenues (Section 5.05 of



- 17 -
the draft Loan Agreement). AWA has further agreed not to embark on any capi-
tal projects (other than those contained in the expansion program) involving
annual expenditures in excess of $2.5 million equivalent unless it has satis-
fied the Bank that the investment is economically justified and that adequate
financial resources are available (Section 5.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
60.       A further cause for concern in AWA's financial situation is the high
level of Government accounts receivable which, at the end of 1975, represented
over two years' billings to Government departments located in Alexandria. In
order to prevent a further build-up in accounts receivables, the Government
has agreed that past arrears will be cleared by end of 1979, and from 1977
onwards the necessary measures will be enforced to ensure that Government
accounts with AWA are settled promptly (Section 3.02 of the draft Guarantee
Agreement).
Tariffs
61.       Domestic consumers in the Alexandria and Behera Governorates are
charged a preferential tariff rate of 100 milliemes for the first 10 m3 per
month (US$0.26 for 2,600 US gallons). Domestic consumption above this level,
and all non-domestic consumption is charged a higher rate. The current
average tariff revenue is about 21 milliemes/m3. An average tariff of not
less than 30 milliemes/m3 would, however, be required to cover AWA's operat-
ing costs and depreciation during 1977. Thus far, some tariffs have been
increased for water supply to ships in the Alexandria harbor and for some
Government buildings. These are, however, still inadequate. AWA has there-
fore agreed as a condition of effectiveness of the loan to put into effect
tariffs which would provide revenues amounting to an average of 30 milliemes/
m3 of water supplied (Section 7.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Board of
Alexandria Water Authority has approved the proposed tariff increases. They
have also been approved very recently by the Cabinet of the Central Government.
The approval of the Local Assembly of the Governorate of Alexandria is still
outstanding; however, in view of the progressive nature of the proposed tariff
structure (e.g., consumers of less than 10 m3 per month about 60 percent of
the population, would not be affected), we expect the Assembly to concur.
62.       For water supply to the Governorate of Mersa Matruh, rural consumers
are charged a unit rate which increases with their distance from Alexandria;
the domestic rate in each location being less than the non-domestic. Supplies
to the city of Mersa Matruh are charged in bulk. Once the new pipeline and
pumping stations to that Governorate are fully operational, costs are expected
to rise to about US$2.2 million as compared with revenues from that area of
only US$640,000. The Government has agreed that AWA will receive compensation
for any shortfalls between revenues and the costs of operation and maintenance
of the pipelines and pumping stations. AWA, on its part, in addition to its
general obligation to reduce unaccounted-for water (see para. 44 above) has
agreed specifically to reduce unaccounted-for water from the pipeline supply-
ing Mersa Matruh in order to hold down the amount of compensation needed
(Section 3.04 of the draft Guarantee Agreement and Section 4.06 (b) of the
Draft Loan Agreement, respectively).



- 18 -
63.       The average tariff of 30 milliemes/m3 referred to above (para. 61)
will not be sufficient to enable AWA to achieve a level of revenues adequate
to cover operating costs and debt service and to make a reasonable contribu-
tion towards capital expenditures for the period following the completion of
the proposed project. AWA has therefore agreed to set for each fiscal year
its tariff rates for water supply within the Governorate of Alexandria so that
revenues from operations will provide for:
(i) expenses for operation and maintenance (excluding depre-
ciation), debt service and adequate increases in working
capital; and
(ii) five percent of gross value of fixed assets in operations
and under construction until 1980 and two percent thereafter
as AWA's contribution towards capital expenditures (Section
5.04(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). After AWA's major
expansion program is completed in 1980, two percent will be
enough for capital expenditures.
To comply with these undertakings an average of 63 milliemes/m3 will be re-
quired by 1983, representing a doubling of the present tariff in real terms.
AWA has also agreed that apart from the above tariff adjustments, any proposed
changes in the tariff structure will continue to encourage rational use of
water by charging higher rates for consumption beyond normal domestic needs
(Section 5.04 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement). With the tariff increases
described, AWA will move into an operating surplus in 1977 and can expect to
develop a rate of return on net fixed assets in operation of about 7 percent
by 1985.
Monitoring System
64.       The proposed project will be monitored by performance and progress
indicators which will also be useful to AWA's management in controlling its
operations. Particular attention will be paid to unaccounted-for water,
finished water quality, metering and financial performance related to total
production. AWA has agreed to establish and maintain such statistical and
other systems as may be necessary to produce the agreed indicators and that it
will report the relevant information to the Bank within 3 months of the end of
each quarter. (Section 4.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Justification
65.       The proposed project, together with the related Government financed
project forming AWA's 1976-82 investment program, is the first major expan-
sion of Alexandria's water supply system in recent years; it is essential if
Alexandria is to avert serious water shortages and related health hazards
as well as serious constraints in the improvement of its inhabitants' living
conditions and in the city's expansion including the expansion of its in-
creasing industrial activities. The proven use of fresh water from the Nile



- 19 -
which has served Egypt for centuries remains the best solution for meeting
Alexandria's water requirements. Alternative methods - the use of desalted
seawater or underground water - are impractical.
66.       The proposed project would produce a number of benefits in terms of
health and safeguarding basic supplies to the urban poor which either cannot
be quantified or are not fairly measured by the prices consumers pay for these
supplies. Because of the unquantifiable but nonetheless real benefits, it has
not been possible to establish a meaningful economic rate of return to the
project. However, the economic analysis suggests that the proposed tariffs
correspond closely to long-run average incremental costs at a discount rate of
approximately 10 percent, and is therefore efficient in terms of cost recovery
and resource allocation.
67.       The project is helping to strengthen AWA by making it financially
independent, improving its management, including compensation and employment
practices, and permitting a better operation of its water facilities. The
improvements in AWA are expected to set a pattern for other water authorities
in Egypt. It is recognized that any expansion of urban water supplies has
implications for waste water disposal in Egypt. At present, sewerage is
controlled by the Central Government without a revenue earning base and with
serious weaknesses in its operation and management. The problems of the
sewerage sector are being examined by an IBRD/WHO study which will be avail-
able for Government consideration by early 1977. In the case of Alexandria,
the Government recognizes that additional water being provided by this project
will create a need for more sewerage and has therefore commissioned a feasi-
bility sewerage study for the city which will identify high priority and
long-term investments in sewerage. It is expected that the organizational
improvement which will be achieved in AWA through the water project will be
manifest by the time the feasibility study is completed (in say 2 years) and
by then will have created a climate for making the necessary organizational
change in the administration of the Alexandria Sewerage Department.
Risks
68.       The project faces no more than the technical and managerial risks
usually involved in water supply projects. Technical and managerial risks
are limited because (i) AWA is a long established organization with a core
of willing and dedicated staff which in the past has performed effectively and
(ii) the training and control techniques introduced through the project should
further help strengthen AWA. The financial performance will depend upon the
adjustment of its water tariffs and the conversion of existing loan debt into
equity, for both of which appropriate assurances have been obtained from AWA
and the Government, respectively.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Alexandria Water
General Authority, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Arab Republic of
Egypt and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of the draft resolu-
tion approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive
Directors, separately.
70.       Features of the draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements of special
interest are listed in Section III of Annex IV.
71.       A special condition of loan effectiveness is that a tariff structure
be implemented which would provide revenues amounting to an average of 30
milliemes/m3 of water supplied (Section 7.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments



;= rfL papa
TAILE 3*S
EGYPT- SOCIAL INOICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA ITCOV. RM2)                                                              --- ---
f*YPT                                   OFFERENCE (GUNTRIFS (1973)
TOTAL       1001.4                                          "CST REFCENT
AGRIC.        28.5                         1960        l910   FSrIMATE            PHILIPPINES     TIRAKFY          SPA tml
GNP PER CAPITA IUShI                         13.           1.           1.0200                           lB         1560.o
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (Pl-1VPY, PILLICN)               25.5         *3.3         37.1                3 6.9         35.7        33.6
POPUIATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                            26.0         !?.a        37.0                123.0         4)6.0        67.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND               I. 11).0              125.0                 279.0        67.0         97.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND             U1&5        Ik2.1        37.8                 44.2         41.6         21.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND             20.7         17.0        14.0                 13.2         14.'.         5.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE 1/THOUI            IC9.c       11A.Q        1I6.                  a0.         145..)       27.4
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT 819TH IYOSI            1)1)9       Ia9.9        5221                 55.6         54.4         7 0.4 
GROSS RFPRonUCTION PATE                    2.8 La       5.0         3.0                   3.3         2.6 /.b_     1.4
POPULATIV'N GROWTH RATE (RI
TOTAL                                      2.4          2.6         2.2                  1.0          ?.S          1.1
URPB AN                                    6.0          3.6          3.6                 4.0          4 .2         1 . I
URBAN POPULATICN It CF TOTAL)               '9.0         1)2.1       za..                  2.6         31.2.1I
AGE STRUCTIJPE 1PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                           4' .0   ~    44. 0                             4)5.6        41.9         '7.)
15 TO 64 YEARS                            54 .C  ~    52.0            ..5.6                          549          t-.
65 YEARS AND) OVER                         3.3    ~     4.C           .                   2.8         4.3           .7
AGE DTPFNDENCY RATIO                         c.q A        0.9           a. 09
FCON041C DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.5          1.7           ..                  1.          1.) /C
FAMILY PLANNI1NG
ACCEPTORS I-,UMULATIVE, THOUN)              ..       469.0        1239.0               354.3
USERS It OF MARRIED WOE-NI                   ..                    21.1                   2.092
E MELDYM eNJ
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THE'USANO)            7?00. o       8,00.o3 /~a.b 9300.0            12300.0      1450).O/d    11!0.',
LABOR FORtCE I)J AGRICULTURE   IS)          57.0 cj      S3.0   =     47.0I                55.0 /      6 7.0        ?
UNEMPLOYED IT OP LABOR FOPCE)                5.0          3.0          ?'.3                                 /a ..     L~A.
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
I OF .'RIVATF INCOME REC*O BY-
HIGHEST    5t OF HOUSEHOLDS               15.2            ....                                       32.5
HGET202 OF HOUS'HOLOS                4B.4            ..                                .        5.
LOWEST   201 OF HOUSFHOLC5                 4.6t          ...                               .           .9
LOWEST   407 OF HCRJSEHnLOS               14 .1           .           ..                              9.4
riSTRIB,;TTON ng LANn OWfPFRSHIP
2 OWNFnI BY TOP t0! OF CWNERS                 ..3. .u.
t OWNED BY SMALLEST 10? OIWNERS                ...                                            .         0.9
HEALTH .10 NUTRITION
POPULOTICN PEP PHYSICIAN                  2500 .0 /    1910.0 40-  lR20. 0/a.                         '?2).3       Tso. 3 /
POPUL TION   REF NURSING PERSOnk          2730.CZd L    AAC.  -2    1SZO0 o73..                      IRABJ.1 I    1 4 3.
POPUL.TION PEP HOSPITAL RED                500.C ai     460.0       460.0x               953.3    ~   .Sj.7        '3).0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES It OF RFQUIREMENTS)              95.0         54.0       103.OLt               100.0       I'.3.)       '01..)
PROTTIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                   66.C        66.0         69.0Z*               65.0         73..)        81.71
-liE WHICHI ANIMAL AND PULSE            17.05       16.C           .                  2 2. )       22.) A      4).)
DEATH NtATEF I THOtl AGFES 1-4              39.3           .                                9.0         1 -.,) /     0."
FOUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                            66.0        AR0          7 :3.lg0 LJA.                    11. AL       131    -
SECfENOARY SCOL16.0                                   320    j     36O                  4.2.)
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDFD
IFIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                  12.0        12.0         12.0                 I3.-3        I!.,)       '3.)
VOCATIONAL ENROLLM4ENT
I! OF SECONDARY)                         22.0          19.0        18.0 L                 6.o& /     14.0         7.)
ADULT LITERACY RATE It)                     20.0           4. 0.0i                           s.5.o             ~    94.0
HOUSING
PERSON-S PER ROOM IAVFRAGE)                  1.6           .             ..                              1.9
OCCUPIED OWELlINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (XI                           60.D           ..           .                 66.0 Z!6     64.)
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
It OF ALL DWELLINGS)                     3A.0ah          ....7.3                              L      A41.1
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNVCTFf%
TO ELECTRICITY It                           .            .            .                  6.3 Ld      Ii.)
CONSUMP)ITON
RADIO 4(ECEIVE.'S (PEP THOUi P0PI           59.3        132.0        143.0                 45.3        P9.)        ''4.3)
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOu) Epr)               1.0          4.0          5.0                  8.0         4.1         70.0
ELECTEICITY (R.WH/YR PER CAP)              102.0        22e.0        225.0               235S. 3      24?.0)      1.?7.1
NEWSPUTNT (KG,YR PEP CAP)                    1.3          1.0          l3                    .a          .
SEE N0.-)S ANn DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANN=n I
Fag. 2 of 4 page.
unle-  otherwise nt    d,dta for 190 rofer to any year betoeco l195 and 1961, foe 1970 berwees 1968 and 1970, and for Most Recen t Eatimote bet,oe
1973 and 1975.
Spale. euonfo1 dtoeetfti-tisn of ita soocceic stucur, degre           of lnduetis1i-ieie    end dneiopne- of tosine nakee it en eppr-prtee 'ebjoctiee
cGY P               1960    I   1950-55;   lb  Eociuding population of so1l    gglsem-trrtisn. in the frteitinr districts,  /c  Figur  referee to per-n  etc
yearn end eve, -oolden cornd popo.1,tii,      Id  1964-65,   Ic :1962.    /f  Inolodiog ...satant nurece and ildeiVee,
~j1960-h2,   /b  Urbac only.
1970   I   1966,   /b  Relates to 12-64 -eer   of eon,   Ic  Rogi-terd, cot oil practicing in the wutry,       /d  5-10 end 11-16 ycare
of ego r-p-o l-ly
MO00r RECENT ESTIMATE     Ic  19 72.  /b  fey ,       I   Rngiese-d, sot oil pr-ticiog is the     --ety,    Id  1971,   Ic   1969-71  --erge,
If  As perrecogo of onPicyse-
PHILIPPTNES         1970    I  he perceotage of ecPlycyme,     lb  7-12 cod 13-16 y-tsr of 090 rnepcctlvely.    f 11 No  i.clfdieg pr i-tt -ootional nohosle
or vocational shr-emcoec,            /d  1967, boseeboide,   Ic   Ineide ony.    7f  Inporre only.
TURKEY               1970   I   Esolodee 17 tEeter  Pro-inoet,   /b   1965-67,   Ic  Ratio of .popsitin coder 15 and 65 end see    to labor fnroe age 15 yaer
end sue     /d  15 vnar   and o-e, eoolsdeeceployed,       Ie  Rngist-rd on ly,    If  Dieposeble in-n   of he..eebolda,
LA  I-sdisdg ae..  cant- IVreo and midoisee     lb  1964-66,   71i 7-11 yera of ege, -I     Pe-en    is years old and seer   h. tell
the .c.n.u. taboos thot the yo rcaId csd write.
SPAIN                1970   /e  Regietered ...eepioyed.  lb  Registerd, sot oil pceotticig is the coostry,     Ic  6-10 cod 11-16 yeor   of age repsotiee1y.
Rh, July 29, 1976
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL IJDICATOR1
iasdrc (th-u bin2)                                                                  "suo        r    ueiepron-Pplthondo-dd by number f fosotioleg
TooiL-Toa     suf-aeae      cepe ieiR  lood area and Inland -ct-ro.                    maleae   fecaegoute       urnP     totd~ so    cnrtifnd-- owne, ace
Acrtic. - see- recn   en. tIatso ofarc   itra    arced temporar ily or                 ualiary peresonnl sith training oreprtse
prcetly for cros   o  ue,ere          bitohe  gadens or t    lIe              Pspulatiss Per hospital bed - Populotio   dicided hy somber of hospita,l beds
fcllnw.                                                        ava~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.ilable is poblic ssd pirsie gemrs.1 und spotalioed h'oepi ttI ad
rehabilitation seot...el. noldee -uring bo-n acd setabliebhente for
GNoP pe  -epill fus).- GsP per e.pito estictaten on morkt prices, ca1bs-              cuetOdlal end pre-etIve sor.
lcte  bysaneooersion, mthod ae fWord Bosh dilce (1973-75 bWeIs),             Per -oota eupply of oore      (5of reCrnet)          -Coputed free energy
1960, 1970 ond 1975 deto.                                                           etRolet of set food snp1tne.asl          ei 7   tooty per sapita per day;
arimlal   eupplinetopoe      do-etie prsdooticn, lpurte i... exports,
reoltin esd vital es..cictce                                                       acd thasge  in stock; sot eopplI.u   selude oni-Ie feed, seed, qootittlee
.pocoaie mI(.d-yr.stlo)-dofJy fires                if sot evelable.                   ond In food pro..enefIg ad losene In dietrihution; requirements     er
-cerge of too esd-yo e.tm..     e i- 960, .190 ond195 dot.                          estimated by PfAO based on pbysIologiool seeds fm, normal activity
end health considering enciromnnetal timperstre, body welghte, age end
-,opleti on deeeity - no 5f00am  Me- id-yecr populonion per equate bil-               sex dietrIbutisons of ppuluti-s, sod alloolog 10% for woete at ho,ieebold
sene  (100booe)           tof tarl are,.lvel
Porooric  den try-per scare. I.. ef asric. I.od - Conpuned oo sboce f-         Per -epi%tan    ynslyef ~tein (oven  mrda)-Pro tein nontent of per
aRriouleurel lcnd only                                         ca~~~~~~~  ~~~~Pita ne  upy  ifs  prdy   ne  spply of fued In defined as
shovel requlrersnit for sil coutries nntablished by RUSDA Zcensoi
l'itcl statiotite                                                                      Reseaoth Servlnes pr-vid. for a nintes  sllsssse of 60 goos    of total
Crude birth rote per thoe.nad - dAnua l..IceI blrth  per th ouuad ef nid-                   Inreh  per la-y, sri 21 g-sn  ctaniml and pulIse protein, of uhich 10
year pepelocin,,troe-poor arith- ii avreoseding int1960 sod 1970,                    grm   shoold be enles1 protein; th.e   standards ore lever then thoec of
ssd fie--ye-r erge cdig in 1975 for coot r.c.e c etin-ts,                            75 gram  of total p-tein sod 23 gr-m   of ai-3.ol potein se en seroge
Crsde death rat  so   thoseand - Annuo :deahe pee tho...a.  of eid-year                for t    -esed,  rpospoen  by Pk0 in the Third W68ri ldFod Survy.
population,   Itn-ea  citbmetic -vrgee codingtis 1960tcod 1970, csd                Ps'opi prsei          eupy fro  scro ed Pulse - prstci'I eupply sf food
fle-yea roeeeedigi090             c    etreetetmae                                    ein    frs  anmlsedLpolneeM in,y          per day.
-          nnadatsper thousand in age group i-h
Itc-t -etolit   rate, (',Ibh  - Ane-1 deathe of infante undnr one y.eso--.                   to o    rntit        go g ..Opi sugge.std o    n us tdlet- of eal-
u-f age Petoendlv         births.                                                    nI,tition
lif.ee c,tncytco at birth (iron) - Avera.ge number of year of life recis-
tog at birth; uetilly five-ynor overagee ending in 1960, 1970 end                    location
1975 for deve.loping isuntrien.                                                      ,ju.t ded,nrollppnt ratio - piry schoosl -Frolntof ull ug-esa
G,.s   -pod,oti-rate - Aheer.ge soother of live duoghtere o ua   ill              p-bh-biiEs rof      rye      -g   ppo   tios; i-cldes of ldr,    oge,d
hbHlIffIIh-or-Ilrep    ooduth- period If ehe e-perh-noe    pr..eset age-             i-11 ysore bt adjueted for different lengthse of prinory odtms;ion;
specific fetIlit   ratnes  usualy fe-yor averges ending in 1960,                      orn    stries with nisnlrnul ed-otls,     -11-tov  cay e-rrei 300%
19IV  an.,d 195i tot dcelpiug  o-ttrs.                                               Anssm      pupils  are bscio  Or siev  the  ffirtl school ags.
Porulo-to  oroth rote il-totol1 - Csepsad        so   grouch race  of eid-           Auluetedrenrolment rtlos -1 secondary ehssl - COmputedd usabotelectod-
yerpopultlo=     fr.t 1950-ho, l9R-70 ond 1970-71.                                    ryeustlo      eqie     a          _et u  yearn of apprevd- rtary  otru--
Pooltlo  orIa    oe()-ubn- Cempoted liko g-outh rote of total                        tion; prsvid- general, -o-t-icol or teaher tr-inig J-etroctione for
populatIon; diffrent dfiniIono.of orbsnares.oeq affect cripar-                       pupile of 12 is 17 years of age; corrspondent. --t    e  urn g-ne-o11y
bilItyofdta     seg    outrtee                                                       ecluded.
Urban eou.tion ( of total) - Ratio of orbs to total popointios; dif-                 Tseo      ooln     orole     (firs end second level) - Total yeasr of
fet-et defislti.sn  of urbac areso may affect -onpra.bility of dais                -obo-l.sg; at setondary lTevel, Onoiona      irtroct7ios may he partially
-nog coutrice.                                                                       or coplicily eseluded.
Az, s-cjia  ry,nrt- Children (-I-l year), working-ege (15-b64 yearn),          Vscssio-1l -nroloet%(5of seondsey) - VoostinaI inetitutione include
an  ret  n3   yE   r   end voer) se percetRags of sld-yesr population                obte  oal, induetro   or ether progro     shich operate independently er
k.d ndnyratio  -Ratio of population under 10 ad 65 end ovr to                  as deporteIts of esondary inetitutton-
.hb6itwages T     tfe -go 6.                                                      Ith    ieay     ae()-1ieaeaite (able to read and -rite) as per-
EcOno.co dependeosi_ r-tio - Ratio of popolo.tis sndnr 15 s-d 65 -nd over               -ertge of total odu1t pupulatisn aged 15 yeare cod over.
tor the lohor fore in age    gro.op  f 15-96 Yeas
f,mlY pnning -ssps'         oseltire    thsu) - CfI.euti-v number of               O   an
aeceptor  of birth-control darene   mdi nsicso ntolful                                     Per rOes (overseeg) - Averge number of percuss per roo   in noupind
plenning program sinne inseptio.                                                      --tientsal dnefltng.n touban ar-oe     d-s1lings ecolude n-p-rsanet
faiycl"ig- -er     (5 of married teem) - Perce.i.gee of r.oried                   strustiee and unovopied p.rte.
woa fcIld-bearing oge (15-bit Years  sh. s   it-stol       e                 Osoapied doellingo witooct piped ratte  (5) - Gocopied ouncenthotal dwell-
elons to oil marrIed -sne Is e-s    age grosp.                                       loge in  rban end rts'a  arese without inseide er outside piped water
fatcillitfe an poroentsge of all seouied dwnallingo.
cot                                                                           Ast... is einotticiiy (5 of ci]. dwnllings) - Con-mtiomal duellioge with
ToaI soF    95.(6usn)-Rooielysoieprcs                       sldn                     elntriotty in lining quarters us percent of total dwellnge in urban
.rm,lrc..  a un   eyed but eseluoding h-ureivr   stdents, eto.;                sdr     laes
defin ittone tovaious coetnire    ar   ot ousiparble.                              Rura delim      connected to eleotrivity (5) - Cumputed as shore fsr ror
laborforers in gr6sulyurej      - kgricoulturol labor ferce (in fareing,               iwiige only.
forestry,htingjiand7fishing) ase pertestage of total labor fm,oce.
ILMI.d  %of lbor  .- )- UnemplyedOareusually defingd ae pnre..e Isssis-etion
ohi   en   o11g to take a Job, ot of       job one given day,               Rf   F    i   s(.rt"p2            All types of re-eier- fur radio brond-
remiced out of u job, end ree king   -kr for a specified etiuni                      teststoWgeneraIl   blItp6r thourend Of populati-nf    seludee unliosed
period no ,e,edlin    one  e.k; may not be ootprnble betwee   oom                    receiver  to o-utrie   and in Ynar. ussregistration of radoet         u
t   atdu  to dif forest definitione of unemploye  enMeI so data,                 in effeci; data for reent years may cot he rempareble obo =   net   oo-
e.g., ceployrtnt office etatietite, ertplr e-rvyr, c-rPulor Yem                      t'ire  abolished licecetng.
plcytnet inse-rn...                                                                          sore o%~r thou po) - Passenger oars ocrresecr oars eewting
P-iithan6I9t personiifimslud.s actul1enons, bearers end military
In-ome distr=ibuin - PercentageIcf private laoon    (bath i~n ocah end                 -ehiolee.
loind) rscie ndy r=n,set 556, richest 20%, poornet 20%, and psoreet                                        to,tI,t,PLZ e   ) - Annual -osumtio  of industrial, scees'
40S of houreho1ds.                                                                    c{17jEP.Rn       21_3ot:p Ictrioity in kilowtt hews per capita; gee-
-11ly based os production data, without aflowece for losses. is gridp
Dietribuitiso of land or      hreip.- Percentages of lend suitd by weslhi.let          hut .11-ring fsr imports and euporte of cle-ctrisity.
10% and poret 1%of lend       wnrs.                                                N-pit(grpr.P              - Per ospit.    -Ioa co-uption in kilograe
..iiftedNfrldbbdtic production plus mat tmoeprta of useepeint.
H-u1th and Rutrition
at on     no    s cfin -Ppefi-n      divided by -uber of pr-uticing
fr ma iedel school at univ.eritY leve.



ANNEX I
EGYPT                                             Page 3 of 4
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(Amounts in millions of US dollars)
Actual              Est.       Projected       1973- 1975-
1973    1974      1979     1976     1977      1980    1975  1980          1973   1975  1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                         (Constant 1975 Prices)               Average Annual
Growth Rates      As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product                 10,012   10,621   11,781   12,547   13,362    16,141    8.4   6.5            99   100    99
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)              56     361      ..         90        88      123                          I    -..    1
Gross Domestic Income                  10,068   10,982   11,781   12,637    13,450   16,263    8.2   6.6           100   100   100
Import (incl. NFS)                      2,872   4,065     5,000    4,836    5,062     6,100   32.0   4.1            28    42    37
Exports  " (import capacity)             1.997   2.336    2,284    2,791     3,393    4,574    6 7  10.4            20    19    28
Resource Gap                              875    1,729    2,716    2,045     1,669    1,526                          8    23     9
Consumption Expenditures                9,570   10,562   11,630   12,249    12,443   14,228   10.2    4.0           95    99    87
Investment    " (incl. stocks)          1,373    2,149    2,867    2,433     2,676    3,562   44.0   4.4            13    24    22
Domestic Savings                          498      420      151      388     1,007    2,036    ..    67.5            5     1     13
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                     Annual Data at Current Prices                               As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital Goods                           291      480      728      748       909    1,502                         17    16     20
Fuels and intermediate goods            633    1,655    2,057    1,935    2,261     3,476                         38    46    46
Consumption Goods                       740    1.356    1.723    1.764     1.939    2.660                         45    38     34
Total Merchandise Imports (c.i.f.)    1,664    3,491    4,508    4,447    5,109     7,638                        100   100    100
Exports
Agricultural Products                   423      857      522      585       680      911                         42    33     20
Manufactured Goods                      580      817    1,046    1,415     2.067    3.672                         58     67    80
Total Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)    1,003    1,674    1,568    2,000     2,747    4,583                        100    100   100
Travel                                  156      266      332      385       460      760
Suez Canal                              ..      ..         85      310       365      500
Merchandise Trade Indices                                   Average 1975 = 100
Export Price Index                       68      122      100      110       118      146
Import Price Index                       67       95      100      105       114      141
Terms of Trade Index                     101     128      100      105       104      104
Exports Volume Index                     94       88      100      116       148      200
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                                       As Percent of Total
Agriculture                              33       34       33       32        31       29
Industry, Electricity & Construction     24       26       28       28        28       30
Services                                 43      40        39       40       41        41
Total                                   100      100      100      100       100      100
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current Prices                                                    As Percent of GDP
Current Receipts                      3,142    3,648    4,178    5,847                                             34    35
Current Expenditures                  2.786    3.487    4.093    4.836                                            30     34
Budgetary Savings                       356      161      85     1,011                                             4      1
Public Sector Investment               1,141   1,446    2,209    2,130                                             12    19
US $ million
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                          Actual        Prelim.   Budget           DETAIL ON                At 1975 P and ER
(As % of Total Current Expenditures)             1973     1974     1975      1976            PUBLIC SECTOR        Draft Plan
INVESTMENT PROGRAM     (1976-80)  % of Total
Defense                                         39.1     24.8      21.1     25.3
Subsidies                                       17.1     35.8      38.5     30.4            Agriculture              1,894        9.3
General Services                                19.6     17.6      18.1     23.2            Industry and Mining      6,656       32.5
Economic Services                               24.2     21.8      22.3     21.1            Power                    1,280        6.3
Total Current Expenditures                     100.0    100.0     100.0    100.0            Transport and com-
munications            5,120       25.0
Other                    5.502       26.9
Total Expenditures      20,452      100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                                       1973-    1975-
1975     1980
Average ICOR                                              2.08     3.26
Import Elasticity                                         3.81     0.63 /2
LABOR FORCE AND                                                                                 Value Added Per Worker (Current Prices)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                                       Total Labor Force                             In US Dollars    7 % of Average
In Millions        7% of Total                       1973    1975    1973     1975
1973     1975      1973     1975
Agriculture                                       4.2      4.2       47        45                      624      858      67      71
Industry                                          1.2      1.2       13        13                    1,557   1,978      167     163
Service                                           3.6      3.9       40        42                      615      803      66      66
Total                                             9.0      9.3      100       100                      932    1,213     100     100
/1 Includes allocations for wage and salary increases in 1976 not allocated by sectors in this table.
/2 Import elasticity for 1975-80 low because of decrease in imports experienced in 1976. For the period 1977-1980,
import elasticity is estimated at 1.00.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
EGYPT
BALANCE OF PAY MENTS. EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amounts in millions of US dollars at current prices)
Actual            Est.                  Projected
1973    1974     1975    1976    1977     1978    1979     1980
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Export of Goods, f.o.b.                     1,003   1,674    1,568   2,000   2,747    3,444   4,040    4,583
Imports of Goods, c.i.f.                   -1,664  -3.491   -4.508  -4.447  -5,109   -5,811  -6,657   -7.638
Trade Balance                              -661  -1,817   -2,940  -2,447  -2,362   -2,367  -2,617   -3,055
Services Receipts                             421     727    1,261   1,635   1,879    2,113   2,366    2.706
Services Payments                             414     542      801   1,010    1,105   1,237   1,363    1.483
Services Balance                              7      185     460     625      774     876   1,003    1,223
A.  Deficit on Goods and Services              -654   -1,632  -2,480  -1,822   -1,588  -1,491  -1,614   -1.832
B.  Amortization of LMT Debt                   -407     -631    -568    -553     -534    -625     -606    -783
(of which suppliers' credits)             (277)  (-285)   (-280)  (-298)  (-286)   (-313)  (-266)   (-323)
C.  Foreign Exchange Requirements             1,061    2,263   3,048   2,375    2,122   2,116   2,220    2,615
D.  Supply of Funds                           1.177   2,091    3.068   2,515   2,222    2,216   2,320    2,715
Private unrequited transfers                  6      42       91      37     ..
Official grants                             725   1,264      988     575
Gulf Fund for Egypt Development             --      --       --      250   (1,922   1,991   2,116    2,243
Other MLT loans                             170     199      583   1,083
Suppliers' credits                          160     273      363     420     450      325     254      372
MLT deposits/loans CBE                      --         5   1,580     300      ..
Foreign investment                          --        7       20      50      100     150     200      250
Short-term commercial bank credits, net     352     585     -264    -200     -250    -250    -250     -150
Balance of Payments Agreements, net        -113     -28     -241     ..       ..      .
Other monetary movements, net              -123    -256      -52     ..       ..
E.  Change in Reserves                          116     -172      20      140     100     100      100     100
Actual        Est.
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                          DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE, MLT      1973  1974  1975   1976
Official Grants and Grant-like                725    1,264     988     575       (Public Debt Outstanding &
Disbursed)
Public MLT Loans
IBRD                                                 85       77     157          Interest on Public Debt       79     95   111   231
IDA                                          75      55       55      40          Repayments on Public Debt    407   631    569   553
Other Multilateral                          ..        6      100     350          Total Public Debt Service    486    726   680   784
Governments                                 290     595    2,507   1,375
Suppliers/Commercial                        160     273      363     670       Burden on Exchange Earnings (X)
Total Public MLT Loans                      525    1,014   3,102   2,592
Public Debt Service           34.1  30.2  z4.0   Ll.o
Actual Debt Outstandi& on SeDt. 30, 1976
EXTERNAL DEBT                                 uisyu'Irse-7n           Percent
World Bank                                      33.7                  0.6
IDA                                            124.1                  2.2
Governments and Arab Dev. Funds              4,520.0                 80.5
Suppliers                                      685.4                 12.3
Other MLT                                      252.6                  4.4
Total Public MLT Debt                        5,615.8                10G.O
Short-term Debt (disb. only)                 1,380.7
EM1DA
January 18, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of December31. 176)
Amount in million US Dollars
Loan/Credit                                                                          Less cancellations
Numbers                    Year   Borrower   Purpose                         Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
Ln 243-UAR                 1959     SCA      Suez Canal Expansion            56.5       --        --
Cr 181-UAR                 1970     UAR      Nile Delta Drainage              --       26.0       8.5
Cr 284-UAR                 1972     ARE      Railways                         --       30.0       2.8
Cr 5-13-UAR 1/             1972     ARE      Cotton Ginning Engineering       --        0.2       --
Cr 393-UAR                 1973     ARE      Upper Egypt Drainage             --       36.0      19.5
Cr 412-UAR                 1973     ARE      BOA                              --      15.0        2.5
Cr 423-UAR                 1973     ARE      Cotton Ginning                            18.5       7.0
Cr 437-UAR                 1973     ARE      Population                       --        5.0       4.3
Cr S-15-UAR 2/             1973     ARE      Talkha EngineeriTig              --       0.4        --
Cr 484-UAR                 1974     ARE      Talkha Fertilizer                --      20.0       12.1
Cr 524-EGT                 1974     ARE      Ag/Ind Imports I                 --      35.0        3.7
Ln 1062-EGT                1974     ARE      Ag/Ind Imports I                35.0      --         7.4
Ln 1064-EGT                1974     SCA      Suez Canal Rehabilitation       50.0      --        42.9
Ln 1085-EGT                1975     ARE      Tourah Cement                   40.0                32.6
Ln 1098-EGT                1975     ERO      Railways                        37.0                29.5
Cr 548-EGT                 1975     ARE      Telecommunications               --      30.0       30.0
Cr 576-EGT                 1975     ARE      BOA II                           --      25.0       24.1
Ln 1239-EGT                1976     APA      Alexandria Port                 45.0      --        45.0
;.n 1276-EGT 5/            1976     ARE      Fruit and Vegetable             50.0       --       50.0
Cr 637-EGT                 1977     ARE      Upper Egypt Drainag'. TT         --      40.0       40.0
Ln 1285-EGT                1977     ARE      Upper Egypt Drainage II         10.0       --       10.0
Ln 1292-EGT 3/             1977     ARE      Textile Rehabilitation          52.0       ---      52.0
Totals                                                                      375.5     281.1     423.9
Of which has been repaid                                                     56.5       0.6
Total now outstanding                                                       319.0     280.5
Amount sold                                                       7.6
Of which has been repaid                                          6.0                          _4_ _
Total now held by Bank and IDA 4/                                           317.4     280.5     423.9
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (As of December_31, 1976)
Amount in
US$ million
Year         Obligor                     Type of Business             Loan    Equity   Total
1976         Arab Ceramic Company        Cerairic Industry            4.25       .75     5.0
(plus .635  (5.635)
contingency
commitment)
1/ Refinanced under Credit 423-UAR.
2/ Refinanced under Credit 484-UAR.
3/ Not yet effective.
4/ Excluding exchange adjustments.
5/  Third Window Loan.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage Project; US$26 million Credit of
April 17, 1970; Effective Date: December 22, 1970; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
At present, about 65 percent of the project is completed; full com-
pletion is expected by end-1979, i.e., 2-1/2 years behind schedule. However,
procurement is proceeding satisfactorily and it is expected that the whole of
the credit will have been committed by December 1977, and that disbursement
will be completed by mid-1978. Due to inflation the local cost of the project
has increased by 90 percent, from $116 million to $220 million. There is no
foreign exchange cost overruns. Progress in project implementation during 1976
was satisfactory and, for the first time, the project reached the established
annual target. However, there are indications that allocations of local funds
by the Government are likely to be reduced below required levels. This could
become a major issue for the project in the future.
Cr. No. 284-UAR - Egyptian Railway Project; US$30 million Credit of February
9, 1972; Effective Date: July 17, 1972; Closing Dates: (i) March 31, 1977,
for track materials, locomotives and spare parts; and (ii) December 31, 1977,
for signalling and telecommunications equipment and installation.
The project is being implemented satisfactorily. All procurement
contracts have been awarded, and the credit has been fully committed. To
allow the remaining balance to be utilized, the Closing Date for the part of
the Credit allocated to signalling and telecommunications items was extended
from September 30, 1976, the original date, to December 31, 1977; the Closing
Date for the other parts of the Credit, originally December 31, 1973, was
extended for a fourth time to March 31, 1977.
Cr. No. S-13-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Engineering Project;
US$175,000 Credit of November 17, 1972; Effective Date: June 15, 1973;
Closing Date: November 30, 1973.
This credit was fully disbursed and subsequently refinanced under
Cr. 423 below.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage Project; US$36 million Credit of June
8, 1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
At present, about 30 percent of the project is completed; full com-
pletion is expected by end-1980, i.e., 6 months behind schedule. About 50
percent of the contracts for equipment have been awarded. Foreign exchange
costs have risen by about 14 percent almost entirely due to price increases
of materials for bilharzia control. The foreign cost overrun of the bilharzia
control program is being financed under the Upper Egypt Drainage II Loan (No.
1285-EGT and Credit No. 637-EGT). As in the case of the Nile Delta Drainage
Project (Cr. No. 181-EGT), the possibility of reduced allocations of local
funds could become a major issue for the project in the future.
Cr. No. 412-UAR - Bank of Alexandria Project; US$15 million Credit of June 29,
1973; Effective Date: November 29, 1973; Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
The entire amount of the credit has been committed to subprojects.
As of December 31, 1976, $12.5 million had been disbursed. A proposal to
transfer responsibility for this project to the newly established Development
Industrial Bank was distributed to the Executive Directors on January 28, 1977.
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effective Date: February 15, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978.
Prices of bids received in May 1974 for major equipment packages
were much higher than expected, and the total estimated foreign exchange cost
is now estimated to be about $41.5 million. In January 1976, the Saudi Fund
for Development concluded an agreement to provide $25.6 million to finance
the cost overrun thus enabling implementation of the project as appraised.
Awards for most of the major contracts have been made and equipment delivery
has begun. However, due to the delay in securing additional local funds,
project implementation has fallen behind by about two years. Also, local
specialists who prepare detailed design work are not satisfactory and sub-
stantially behind schedule. IDA has asked that new engineers be retained.
Cr. No. 437-UAR - Population Project; US$5.0 million Credit of November 6,
1973; Effective Date: March 25, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project has been greatly delayed by a shortage of local funds
and by administrative problems. It is now being carried out with a reduced
scope but substantially in accordance with a revised schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Cr. No. S-15-UAR - Talkha Urea Fertilizer Engineering Project; US$400,000
Credit of November 20, 1973; Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date:
March 31, 1975.
The credit was refinanced under Cr. 484 below.
Cr. No. 484-UAR - Talkha II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million Credit of June
24, 1974; Effective Date: January 22, 1975; Closing Date: April 1, 1979.
The project is proceeding well and mechanical completion by March
1978 appears feasible. Additional foreign exchange financing to cover a
32 percent cost overrun has been secured from the Arab co-lenders under the
project. Local funds from the Government to the project and the company's
existing operations have not been provided as required and the company had
to borrow short-term debt resulting in an unsatisfactory liquidity position.
This has been brought to the Government's attention which indicated that
appropriate allocations in the 1977 budget would be made.
Cr. No. 524-EGT and Ln. No. 1062-EGT - Agricultural and Industrial Imports
Project; US$35 million Credit and US$35 million Loan of December 20, 1974;
Effective Date: March 19, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1977 (Credit
and Loan).
The bulk of the procurement actions has been completed and dis-
bursements are well advanced. One of the six surveys of industrial sub-
sectors has been completed and the five others are expected to be completed
by end-1977.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effective Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1978.
Disbursement of Bank funds has now begun, the Canal Authority
having first used lower interest funds from other sources. Progress to date
on project implementation has been good, and procurement on other items to be
financed by the Bank is well advanced. A new project for the enlargement of
the canal has been appraised and is expected to be presented to the Executive
Directors early in FY78.
Ln. No. 1085-ECT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1979.
Conctract awards for mechanical and electrical equipment have been
made and the civil contractor has started work. Availability of local funds
continues to be a problem and could result in cost overruns and delay in
project implementation. The Government has been requested to make necessary
budgetary allocations.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Progress on physical investment items under the project is generally
satisfactory. However, the Egyptian Railways (ER) are experiencing opera-
tional difficulties with a large number of locomotives out of service because
of lack of spare parts. A program to remedy this situation is being discussed
with Government and ER. Also, declining traffic and rising costs resulted in
a worsening of ER's financial position. Government is considering an increase
in rail tariffs proposed by ER.
Cr. No. 548-EGT - Telecommunications Project; US$30 million Credit of May 16,
1975; Effective Date: August 14, 1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1978.
Contract awards for cables have been largely completed and bids for
telex equipment are being evaluated, both several months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Bank of Alexandria Project; US$25 million Credit of
July 30, 1975; Effective Date: February 19, 1976; Closing Date: October 31,
1979.
As of December 31, 1976, about $10 million had been committed under
the project and disbursements have begun. A proposal to transfer responsi-
bility for this project to the newly established Development Industrial Bank
was distributed to the Executive Directors on January 28, 1977.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
After some initial delays project implementation has begun. A
project unit has been established and civil engineering consultants have been
appointed.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effective Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1982.
Steps are being taken to commence project implementation.
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976. Effective
Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This loan and credit were declared effective on January 31, 1977
and project implementation has commenced.
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20, 1976.
Effective Date: February 20, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The terminal date of effectiveness of this loan has been extended
once. The only condition of effectiveness still to be met is the ratifica-
tion of the legal documents by the Egyptian parliament.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
ALEXANDRIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Alexandria Water General Authority (AWA)
Guarantor:          Arab Republic of Egypt
Amount:             US$56 million equivalent
Terms:               20 years, including 4-1/2 years of grace, at 8.50 percent
interest.
Project             The proposed project is designed to provide an addi-
Description:       tional 350,000 m3/day of treatment capacity and other
goods and services to (i) help AWA meet future water
demand and cope with a water deficit now only being
overcome at the expense of water quality; and (ii)
provide reliable water meters for improved billing
and reduce unaccounted-for water. The costs of the
principal project components are estimated as follows:



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
-----In US$ Million------
Project Costs                             Local    Foreign    Total
Water Treatment Plants                     22.0       16.5      38.5
Trunk Water Mains                          12.4       15.3      27.7
Booster Stations                            0.9       0.8        1.7
Mechanical and Electrical Equipment         1.4        1.4       2.8
Standby Generators                          0.2       0.3        0.5
Construction and Work Equipment             0.4       0.9        1.3
Water Barges                                0.6       0.2        0.8
Office Equipment                            0.2       0.3        0.5
Vehicles and Trucks                         0.5       0.8        1.3
Water Meters                                0.4       0.8        1.2
Base Cost Subtotal                       39.0      37.3       76.3
Land Acquisition                            0.8        -         0.8
Consultant Services                         2.7       0.7        3.4
Physical Contingencies                      5.9       5.6       11.5
Subtotal                                 48.4      43.6      92.0
Price Contingencies                        17.3      12.4       29.7
Total                                    65.7      56.0      121.7
Financing Plan
AWA                                        65.7       -         65.7
Government)
Bank                                         -      56.0        56.0
Total                                    65.7     56.0       121.7
Estimated
Disbursement:
--------------------US$ Million----------------------
1977    1978    1979     1980    1981    1982    Total
0.7     9.3     17.0    16.0    11.0     2.0     56.0



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Procurement         Contracts for civil works and equipment would be awarded
Arrangements:       on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines for procurement.
Small contracts of $10,000 or less for items of equipment,
material, supplies and vehicles to be compatible with
existing equipment or items, which because of their
specialized nature and for reasons of economy are normally
procured without international competitive bidding, may be
awarded on a competitive basis to reliable suppliers after
having obtained price quotations, whenever practicable,
from at least three such suppliers. The aggregate ex-
penditure for items so procured would, however, not exceed
$300,000. There are about 6 construction enterprises in
Egypt capable of executing the project's civil works
component, one or more of these are expected to win the
civil works contracts after international competitive
bidding. All major items of equipment and pipes entering
into the construction contracts will be separately bid and
imported. Domestic manufacturers would be allowed a margin
of preference of 15 percent or the actual customs duty,
whichever is lower. Egyptian manufacturers are not ex-
pected to be awarded contracts the total value of which
would exceed $1 million.
Consultants:        About 48 man months of consultant services for assisting
AWA in preparing specifications and bid documents and in
evaluating bids and about 24 man-months of consultant
services to help strengthen AWA's techniques of management
control, training and performance monitoring have been
included under the project.
Appraisal Report:    Appraisal of the Alexandria Water Supply Project,
Egypt (1292-ECT), dated January 4, 1977.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
ALEXANDRIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project first identified: November 1975
(b) Time taken by the Alexandria Water General Authority (AWA) to prepare
the project: Five months (November 1975 to March 1976)
(c) Date of the First Bank Mission to Consider Project: March 19-25, 1976
(d) Date of Departure of Appraisal Mfission: May 4, 1976
(e) Date of Completion of Negotiations: December 10, 1976
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: July 1977
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   The implementation of a tariff structure which would provide revenues
amounting to an average of 30 milliemes/m3 of water supplied will be
a condition of effectiveness of the loan (paragraph 61).
2.   Other special conditions are:
(a) (i) Preparation by AWA within twelve months of loan signing
and review with the Bank and the Government of a leak
detection study, and (ii) preparation by AWA of a study
on the adequacy of the existing metering system not later
than June 30, 1977 (paragraph 44).
(b) Continuation of AWA's policy to select and appoint its staff
in accordance with appropriate administration, business and
public utility practice (paragraph 47).
(c) Employment of suitably qualified management consultants by
AWA to help strengthen AWA's techniques of management control
and performance monitoring and of engineering consultants to
assist in the preparation of tender documents and bid evalua-
tion (paragraphs 47 and 52).



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
(d) Agreement by the Government to (i) contribute a loan of
about $71 million equivalent to help meet AWA's domestic
borrowing requirements for its 1976-82 expansion program
and (ii) provide any additional funds required to meet
cost overruns AWA is not able to meet from its own
resources (para. 51).
(e) Government obligation (i) by conversion of existing loan debt
and by additional contributions, to bring AWA's total equity
up to LE 32 million by end-1977 and (ii) to waive interest
charges for 1976 (para. 58).
(f) AWA will (i) not incur any new loan debt unless total debt
service is covered at least 1.5 times by revenues from
operations, and (ii) not embark on any capital projects
involving annual expenditures in excess of $2.5 million
equivalent unless adequate financial resources are available
(para. 59).
(g) Government will take all necessary actions to ensure prompt
payment by Governemnt entities for water supplied by AWA,
and to settle existing arrears by end-1979 (para. 60).
(h) AWA will (i) receive compensation for any shortfalls between
revenues for water supplied to the city and Governorate of
Mersa Matruh and the costs of providing the supplies, and
(ii) reduce unaccounted for water from the pipeline supplying
Mersa Mfatruh in order to hold down the amount of compensation
needed (para. 62).
(i) AWA will (i) set tariffs for water supply in the Alexandria
Governorate to meet appropriate cash generation criteria and
(ii) continue to maintain a tariff system which encourages
rational use of water (para. 63).
(j) AWA will maintain the necessary statistics to provide the
performance indicators required for project monitoring, and
will report them to the Bank within 3 months of the end of
each quarter (para. 64).



IBRD 12323
OrSEPTEMBER 1976
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                        Mmd,rrae=  SE:
ALEXANDRIA WATER SUPPLY                  ARE      _                 ISRAEL 3-
F NANCED  FINANCCED i/TUG EXIST ING)                                            '
B/AWA  BY BANK
Med,perroneon    Se o                                                                   M.ns B/c30  -   R-do
It [1   600 8e '  ____Ak 30r R.;]-,,       LBA       PB    
o     El  Boosrerwos                            BEPUBLIC              IIABA
E... I.d to-k,                20 slLbEE5        OF EGYPT  o
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c... 400'0o; 'GA,s,1,,, /,''V 
o  0/ BaJ oer,o,rs                             BOBprwol-2
0       S      /0rrc2neo-                 AS ALE  D
Bourst~~~~~~~~~~~RA,.ARHA,,OKA el AIa //;   /
Ras                          *o~~~~~~~~~~"O/-/o',/5r..sre'rs,tA.S  9/' i/sia3
T/hA
SUDA
S-1.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~LO '                    B~AOOH-med, Te-ae-, sea                        BUK/R BY  p
R.. 11800 G-1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bi ,OO~                   Ri-'
B                       A
Mediernen       SaALEXA                                                                                   ]RA' 
BRorgolAsA-                                   -"
K  C.  A/'IieN, 
000.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Be ,0,                         B.4IA~
Abd.1 R.h.-                                                            R., 2,000.~~~~~~~~~i, -  50,
4,OOC  R_ 4,000                                            PAL E ST I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  /Bp  /900E KM,O   n~  ~
El D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b..                                                 R.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ '  Bee0 2,0 0,
R~~~~, 2,200                                      Western  Desert~Be  .00se  ~,C /  -  A                        BE/R
00.                       PALBSTINE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
-ADO ~ ~ ~    ~    C-






IBRD 12325
OCTOBER 1976
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
ALEXANDRIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECTMAINS           *  EXISTINGWATER WORKSAND BOOSTERS
PROJECT RAWWATER MAINS    WATER WORKS EXTENSION ANDBOOSTERS FINANCED BYAW.A.
EXISTING MAINS I`0-18"Pl  *  WATER WORKS EXTENSION ASD BOOSTERS FINANCED BY BANK
EXISTING MAINS (20"0-30-01
A    PROPOSEDPUMPINGSTATIONS
*A EXISTING PUMPING STATIONS
*    EXISTING RESERVOIRS
CANALS
RAILWAYS
RESIDENTIAL AREAS                                     4 K
K-.._                 -   -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES               KIL  ZT3
MAILES
j,,~         ~   ~  ~~~~~~~~~~A m rFl / rFFF~A NFEA AN SF4                           -            MONTAZA    X M  AZ,
44 F I) rFPA1.4 Iv,- A v  5,F
-~     \   I !                 <^ . ., .  - PMOSOT
r ~~--           - -  IN.             -  -~  =------ -- - -- -=  - -                                  -    -  ,-- 
I ~~~~"*t* ~ ~ M. I                                                                         I,EXT
-   /                                ' hf           .         - MK.R  -   \                                                         >1 \~KI                                      OATXE SI NS,OOI 
>  g       L4KDU   ~        ~~~I            @ R)MJ  j               A<                  I   L      AHD
-5~~~                   ~~    ~     ~     ~                                        I -I            A
7Z1
NOZHA AIRPORT                        *IRSNO
IS
AK,XOOIIAOIAIO4000IO0  zOAIIA.3FE-0.



