CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1369 EGT
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(Alexandria Water Supply Project)
between *
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 7, 1977


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 7, 1977, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPT (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Alexandria Water General Authority (hereinafter
called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower
a loan in various currencies equivalent to fifty-six million dol-
lars ($56,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
being hereinafter called the General Conditicns).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in
the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
undertakes:
(a) to convert not later than December 31, 1977, or such
other date as shall be agreed between the Guarantor and the Bank,
the Borrower's long-term debt to the Guarantor outstanding on Decem-
ber 31, 1976 (estimated to be about twenty-two million Egyptian
Pounds), into an equity contribution to the Borrower's capital. For
purposes of this Section "long-term debt" means any debt maturing
more than one year after the date on which it was incurred;
(b) to waive the payment of any interest which shall have
accrued on the Borrower's long-term debt to the Guarantor during
the calendar year 1976;


﻿(c) to contribute during calendar year 1977 such additional
funds to the Borrower's capital as shall be required to increase
the Borrower's equity capital to the amount of thirty-two million
Egyptian Pounds;
(d) to lend to the Borrower an amount of twenty eight million
Egyptian Pounds on terms and conditions satisfactory -to the Guaran-
tor and the Bank; and
(e) that whenever funds available to the Borrower will be
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the
carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory
to the Guarantor and the Bank, to provide the Borrower or cause
the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet
such expenditures.


﻿-5
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of,, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if P'd when any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any exter-
nal debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of', and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provi-
sion to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitu-
tional or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with
respect to any lien created on assets of any of its political or
administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at
no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent'lien   - ther public assets
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not -r ly to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿- 6 -
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Guarantor shall cause all amounts owed on the date of this Agree-
ment on account of water supplied by the Borrower to any department
or agency of the Guarantor to be fully paid on or before December 31,
1979.
(b) The Guarantor shall take all action necessary to ensure
that, commencing with calendar year 1977, the departments and
agencies of the Guarantor shall make payments, to the Borrower
for water consumed in accordance with the Circulars.
Section 3.03. Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under this Agreement, the Guarantor
shall take all steps necessary on its part to facilitate the im-
plementation by the Borrower of any action proposed by, or necess-
ary on the part of, the Borrower pursuant to Section 5.04 (a) of
the Loan Agreement.


﻿Tm
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall, on a quarterly basis,
compensate the Borrower, or cause the Borrower to be compensated,
for financial losses incurred by the Borrower in connection with
supply of water to the City of Mersa Metruh and other parts of the
Governorate of Mersa etruh. The duration, extent, form and the
manner of such compensation shall be satisfactory to the Guarantor,
Borrower and the Bank.


﻿-8
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Economy and Economic Coopera-
tion or the Under Secretary of State for Economic Organizations
and International Finance, of the Guarantor is designated as
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of Economy and
Economic Cooperation
8 Adly Pasha Street
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:                     Telex:
Ministry of Economy and            348 GAFEC
Economic Cooperation
Cairo
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By /s/ Abdel-Moneim EI-Kassouni
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


