774- 'I
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1369 EGT
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Alexandria Water Supply Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ALEXANDRIA WATER GENERAL AUTHORITY
-       Dated March 7, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 7, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and ALEXANDRIA WATER GENERAL AUTHORITY (hereinafter called the
Borrower), existing as a General Authority pursuant to Law
No. 1639 of 1968 and Law No. 61 of 1963 of the Arab Republic
of Egypt.


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Expansion Program" means the Borrower's program for
the renewal and expansion of its water supply system during the
years 1976 through 1981, which will raise its water production by
about 600,000 m 3/day to a total of about 1,150,000 m 3/day;
(b) "Egyptian Pound (fE)" means the currency of the Guarantor;
and
(c) "Circular Letters" means the Circular Letter No. 22 of
1976 and Circular Letter No. 29 of 1975, issued by the Under-
Secretary of State for the Ministry of Finance of the Guarantor.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-
six million dollars ($56,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil
works to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.


﻿Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the Amortization Schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the prepara-
tion of bidding documents and bid evaluation, the Borrower shall,
not later than five months after the date of this Agreement or
such later date as the Bank shall agree, employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to re-
place or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Guarantor and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for the
Project.


﻿-6-
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications there-
of or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to-examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such actirn as shall be necessary to acquire, as and when needed,
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for the construction (and operation) of the facilities included in


﻿-7-
the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times maintain its
existence as a legal entity and the right to carry on its opera-
tions, and shall take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain
and renew all rights, powers, privileges, concessions and fran-
chises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall operate and maintain its
plants, equipment and property, and from time to time make all
necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with
appropriate engineering and public utility practices.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall at all times continue
to carry on its operations, manage its affairs, maintain its
financial position, and plan the future expansion of its water
system, all in accordance with appropriate administrative, busi-
ness, financial and public utility practices and under the super-
vision of experienced management.
(b) The Borrower shall continue to select and appoint its
staff in a manner consistent with the provisions of Section 4.03
(a) of this Agreement.


﻿- 9 -
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than six
months after the date of this Agreement or such later date as the
Guarantor and the Bank shall agree, employ management consultants
required to study improvements to Borrower's management systems
with qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfac-
tory to the Guarantor, the Bank and the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Guarantor
and the Bank, for comments, the recommendations of the consultants
referred to in Section 4.05 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall Ci) not later than
twelve months after the date of this Agreement or such later date
as the Bank shall agree, undertake a study to detect leaks and
reduce waste in its water supply systems; and (ii) promptly review
the findings and recommendations of such study with the Guarantor
and the Bank.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 4.06 (a) of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall take all steps necessary on its
part (including but not limited to metering the consumers) to re-
duce losses due to leakage, pilferage or other similar causes in
its operations relating to the Governorate of Mersa Metruh.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1977, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, furnish to the
Guarantor and the Bank the results of a study of the adequacy of
its metering system.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall establish and thereafter
maintain such statistical and other systems as shall be necessary
to produce performance indicators measuring during each calendar
quarter: (i) the execution of the Project; (ii) the impact of the
Project on Borrower's performance and operations; and (iii) the
benefits accruing from the Project, and shall report to the Guar-
antor and the Bank such indicators as soon as available, but in
any case not later than three months after the end of each such
quarter.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently ap-
plied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) fur-
nish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited,
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.


﻿- 12 -
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant,
at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the
Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transac-
tions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall take all necessary steps (including but not lim-
ited to adjustments of its tariffs) as shall be required to produce
revenues from the sale of water in the Governorate of Alexandria
sufficient to cover, in any given fiscal year, all expenses of
operation, maintenance and administration (excluding deprecia-
tion and the expenses of operating the Western Desert pipelines
and pumping stations associated therewith), interest and other
charges on debt, repayment of loans (including sinking fund pay-
ments, if any), increases in working capital other than cash, all
taxes or payment in lieu of taxes not included in operating ex-
penses, and a contribution towards its capital expenditures equal


﻿- 13 -
to at least (i) five per cent (5%) of the gross value of its
fixed assets in operation plus work-in-progress until and in-
cluding its fiscal year 1980; and (ii) two per cent (2%) of said
value from its fiscal year 1981 onwards.
For the purposes of this paragraph:
(A) The term "increases in working capital other
than cash" means the difference between (i) increases in
inventories and accounts receivable; and (ii) increases in
accounts payable.
(B) The term "gross value of its fixed assets in
operation plus work-in-progress" means the average of
the values at the beginning and the end of the relevant
fiscal year of such assets and assets under construction
or otherwise not yet in service as established in the
accounts of the Borrower from time to time in accordance
with appropriate and consistently maintained methods of
valuation acceptable to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall continue to utilize a tariff structure
which encourages rational use of water by charging lower rates for
basic domestic needs and higher rates for consumption in excess
thereof.
Section 5.05. Except as the Guarantor and the Bank shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall not incur any debt unless its net
revenues for the fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or for
any later twelve-months period ended prior to such incurrence,


﻿- 14 -
whichever amount is the greater, shall be not less than 1.5 times
the maximum debt service requirement in any succeeding fiscal year
on all debt, including the debt to be incurred. For the purposes
of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" means all debt, including debt
assumed or guaranteed by the Borrower, except
debt incurred in the ordinary course of busi-
ness and maturing by its terms on demand or
less than one year after its incurrence;
(ii) the term "incur" with reference to any debt
includes any modification of the terms of
payment of such debt. Debt shall be deemed
to be incurred: (A) under a contract or loan
agreement, on the date the contract or loan
agreement is entered into, and (B) under a
guarantee agreement, on the date the agree-
ment providing for such guarantee is entered
into but only to the extent that the underly-
ing debt is outstanding;
(iii) the term "net revenues" means gross operating
revenues, adjusted to take account of tariffs in
effect at the time of incurrence of debt even
though such tariffs were not in effect during
the fiscal year or twelve-month period to which
such revenues relate, less all operating, main-
tenance and administrative expenses and taxes,
but before provision for depreciation and in-
terest and other charges on debt;


﻿- 15 -
(iv) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including
sinking fund payments, if any), interest and
other charges on debt of the Borrower; and
(v) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the
currency of the Guarantor debt payable in an-
other currency, such valuation shall be made
on the basis of the lawful rate of exchange at
which such other currency is obtainable by the
Borrower, at the time such valuation is made,
for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, if
such other currency is not so obtainable, at
the rate of exchange that will be reasonably
determined by the Bank.
Section 5.06. Except as the Guarantor and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not, until the Project shall
have been completed, make, or permit to be made on its behalf, any
major investment expenditure, other than those included in the Ex-
pansion Program and normal renewals and repairs of its equipment,
unless it has first furnished to the Bank evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that (i) such investment is economically justified; and
(ii) the Borrower will have adequate financial resources for the
carrying out of such investment.
For the purposes of this Section, a "major investment expen-
diture" shall be deemed to be an expenditure incurred on account
of a project or acquisition of new assets, the aggregate cost of
which shall be in excess of the equivalent of two million five
hundred thousand dollars ($2,500,000) in any given year.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
That Law No. 1639 of 1968 shall have been amended, suspended,
waived or repealed so as to materially and adversely affect the
operations or financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the event speci-
fied in Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall have occurred.
Section 6.03. The Borrower: (i) represents that all obliga-
tions of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement which shall or may
require for their performance the approval, cooperation or finan-
cial and other assistance of any governmental authorities having
jurisdiction, are undertaken with the consent and full support of
such authorities; and (ii) agrees that no action or failure to act
by such authorities shall excuse the performance of such obligation
by the Borrower or limit the remedies of the Bank under this
Article in respect of any default in the performance of such
obligations.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement with-
in the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Borrower shall have increased and put into effect
and force such tariffs for the Governorate of Alexandria as will
provide revenues to the Borrower amounting to an average of 30
milliemes per cubic meter of water supplied.
Section 7.02. The date July 6, 1977, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 18 -
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Alexandria Water General Authority
61, Horreia Street
Alexandria
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:
Water Works
Alexandria


﻿- 19 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
ALEXANDRIA WATER GENERAL AUTHORITY
By /s/ Ashraf Ghorbal
Authorized Representative


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar_Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works               14,400,000         30%
(2) Equipment and             33,600,000         100% of foreign
materials                                    expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures ex-
factory and 75%
of expenditures
for imported
items procured
locally
(3) Consultants'                 700,000         100% of foreign
services and                                expenditures and
training                                     80%
(4) Unallocated                7,300,000
TOTAL     56,000,000


﻿- 21 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
Egyptian Pounds and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,


﻿- 22 -
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program for the expan-
sion of its water supply systems during the years 1976-1981. The
Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Water treatment plants
Extensions of existing treatment plants at Siouf,
Forn el Geraya and Mamoura and construction of a new
treatment plant at El Nasr to provide additional
treatment capacity of about 350,000 m3/day, including
clear water storage facilities, buildings and ancillary
equipment.
Part B:   Water distribution
Construction of' about 73 km of trunk water mains and
of three booster stations in the distribution system.
Part C:   Operational equipment
1.   Renewal of equipment at five existing water
treatment plants and at three booster stations and
installation of additional raw water pumping capacity
and stand-by generators.


﻿- 214 -
2.   Purchase of workshop, construction, communications
and accounting equipment and of four self-propelled
water barges.
3.   Purchase of vehicles and trucks and of about
35,000 water meters of various diameters.
Part D:   Technical assistance
Strenghtening of management control and performance
monitoring techniques and the training of Borrower's
staff.
Thc Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 1982
through   September 15, 1996                1,805,000
On March 15, 1997                                1,850,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 26 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.25%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          2.55%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          4.65%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                    6.80%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                    7.65%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                          8.50%


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment and ma-
terials shall be grouped so as to encourage international com-
petition.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for spare parts, components or other items ancillary
or compatible to equipment and materials already in service or pro-
cured in accordance with Part A.1 hereof and for specialized equip-
ment not susceptible of competitive bidding shall be procured from
reliable suppliers after having obtained price quotations from,
wherever practicable, at least three such suppliers on the basis of
suitability, availability and price considerations; provided, however,
that such procurement shall not exceed $10,000 equivalent under a
single contract and $300,000 equivalent under all such contracts. in
the event the estimated cost of a contract shall exceed $10,000 equiv-
alent, the Borrower shall consult with the Bank on the procurement
procedures to be followed by the Borrower.


﻿- 28 -
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goodsi Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expen-
ditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Egypt may be granted a margin of pref-
erence in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Egypt
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Bank and the Borrower that the manu-
facturing cost of such goods includes a value added
in Egypt equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.


﻿- 29 -
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Egypt.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 30
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works, equipment and
materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rover shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award
of the said consultants and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.


﻿- 31 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
*bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the provisions of this Agreement,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such de-
termination.


