Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14453
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
THIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1871-CHA)
APRIL 21, 1995
Agriculture Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Yuan (Y)
Appraisal           U.S.$1.00 = Y 3.7
1987                U.S.$1.00 = Y 3.7
1988                U.S.$1.00 = Y 3.7
1989                U.S.$1.00 = Y 4.7
1990                U.S.$1.00 = Y 5.2
1991                U.S.$1.00 = Y 5.3
1992                U.S.$1.00 = Y 5.7
1993                U.S.$1.00 = Y 5.7
1994                U.S.$1.00 = Y 8.5
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Meter (m)                =      3.28 Feet (ft)
1 Kilometer                =      0.62 Mile
1 Hectare (ha)             =      2.47 Acres
=     l5mu
1 Kilogram (kg)            =      2.2 Pounds (lb)
2 Chinese Jin
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
ABC          -      Agricultural Bank of China
BOC          -      Bank of China
PBC          -      People's Bank of China
ERR          -      Economic Rate of Return
FRR          -      Financial Rate of Return
IDA          -      International Development Association
IFAD         -      International Fund for Agricultural Development
LIB           -     Limited International Bidding
MOA          -      Ministry of Agriculture
PMO          -      Project Management Office
RC I         -      Rural Credit I Project (CR 1462-CHA)
RC II        -      Rural Credit II Project (CR 1642-CHA)
RC III       -      Rural Credit III Project (CR 1871-CHA)
RC IV        -      Rural Credit IV Project (CR 2182-CHA; LN 3265-CHA)
RBC          -      Rural Banking Commercialization Project
TA           -      Technical Assistance
RCCs         -      Rural Credit Cooperatives



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Preface.i
Evaluation Summary  ...........................................   ii
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives  .................1...................... 
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives  .............................   2
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project  ............................   6
D.  Project Sustainability   .....................................   8
E.  IDA Performance   .......................................   9
F.  Borrower Performance   ....................................  10
G.  Assessment of Outcome   ...................................  11
H.  Future Operation  ........................................  11
1.  Key Lessons Learned   .....................................  11
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment   .........                   .....................  14
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits   .......                 .....................  16
Table 3:   Project Timetable  . ..................................  17
Table 4      Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual   ....               ......  18
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation   ...................  19
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation  ......               .................  19
Table 7:    Studies Included in Project  ........               .....................  20
Table 8a:  Project Costs   .          ....................................  21
Table 8b: Project Financing . ................................... 21
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits   ...........................  22
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants   ........                 .....................  23
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements   ............... 26
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs   .......                 ....................  27
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions  ........                   .....................  28
APPENDICES
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire . ................................... 29
B.  Project Review from  Borrower's Perspective   ......................  32
Maps: IBRD 20243 and 20244
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.              I






- i -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
THIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CR. 1871-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third Rural Credit Project in China, for
which Credit 1871-CHA in the amount of $170 million/SDR 123.8 million was approved on January 26,
1988 and made effective on June 17, 1988.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1994, 12 months beyond the date originally envisaged, June 30,
1993. It was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on July 7, 1994.
The ICR was prepared by Richard Scobey, China and Mongolia Agriculture Operations Division, East
Asia and Pacific Region, and reviewed by Mr. Joseph Goldberg, Division Chief, and Mr. Yo Kimura,
Project Advisor. The Borrower provided comments that are included as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission, from
November 7 to December 2, 1994. It is based on materials in the project file. The Borrower contributed
to preparation of the ICR by contributing views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire, preparing its
own evaluation of the project's execution and initial preparation, and commenting on the draft ICR.



I
I



- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
THIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CR. 1871-CHA)
EVALUATION SUNIMARY
Introduction and Project Objectives
1.    The Third Rural Credit Project (RC III) was formulated in 1986-87, after the Bank had financed
more than fifteen projects in the agriculture sector, and four industrial credit projects and two rural credit
projects in the finance sector. The First and Second Rural Credit Projects (RC I&II) provided funds to
the Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) for medium-and long-term investment in three provinces and
included a small amount of technical assistance to strengthen ABC's institutional capacity for sub-project
appraisal. The objectives of RC III were: (a) to stimulate growth and diversification of agriculture by
expanding the availability of medium- and long-term credit; and (b) to increase the operational efficiency
of ABC through institutional development. The first objective was addressed through provision of
investment funds for aquaculture, tree crops, livestock and agroprocessing in six provinces. The second
objective was addressed through support for: (a) capacity building for ABC's three national staff colleges;
(b) training of project staff, primarily in project appraisal, monitoring, and evaluation; (c) technical
assistance to review and strengthen ABC policies and operations; and (d) a pilot program to introduce
Rural Credit Cooperatives (RCCs) to longer-term lending.
2.    The objectives were generally well designed, clearly spelled out in the project documentation, and
supported by all the stakeholders. Similarly, they appropriately reflected the government implementation
capacity and were consistent with both the Government's development strategy and the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy at the time of preparation. Consequently, there was no reason to revise the objectives
during implementation. The only problem was that the objectives were slightly unrealistic about the pace
of financial sector reform in China. The underlying assumption of the project was that the finance sector
was rapidly changing and the project would support the critical financial and human resources required
to reshape the rural banking system. As reviewed below, this expectation proved to be excessively
optimistic.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The project substantially achieved the objective of agricultural growth and diversification. The
on-lending program financed about 850 subprojects, which supported the establishment of 80,000 ha of
tree crops, construction of 3,800 ha of fish ponds, the purchase of 3.6 million animals, and the
development of hundreds of agro-processing factories. The total number of subprojects was somewhat
less than the 1,200 projected in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), due to adjustments in the composition
of investments arising from changing market and economic conditions. The sub-projects generally met
their expected production targets and achieved good rates of return. The final estimates of financial rates
of return (FRR) for the various sub-sectors are significantly higher than those projected in the SAR, and
the overall project FRR of 31 percent significantly exceeds the SAR estimate of 20 percent. The sub-
projects also generated good economic benefits, with a consolidated economic rate of return (ERR)
estimated at 20 percent for the overall project (this level was slightly lower than the SAR projection due



- iii -
to changes in the analytical assumptions used in the estimation of ERRs). Despite the overall strong
performance, the on-lending program faced two problems. First, about 9 percent of all sub-projects
failed to meet production objectives and expected benefits, primarily in the agro-processing sub-sector,
due to technical and financial weaknesses in design and operation. Second, there was a very low level
of technology transfer in most sub-projects, despite the fact that out-dated technology is one of the main
contributors to low productivity and efficiency in the industrial sector in China.
4.     The project only partially realized the objective of increasing the operational efficiency of ABC
through institutional development. The upgrading of training colleges and the overall project training
program were generally well implemented and made a moderate contribution to capacity building. The
studies program, however, did not meet its objective of providing policy guidance for reshaping the role
of ABC in the changing financial sector environment, as many of the studies were general and
emphasized description rather than prescription. Similarly, the RCC pilot program did not meet the
overall objective of establishing a model for longer-term lending to individual households by RCCs, as
implementation was weak due to limited interest and commitment from ABC.
5.     The following factors under the control of the Government and ABC substantially affected the
achievement of project objectives. First, the government commitment to financial sector reform declined
significantly during the early years of implementation, in response to the overheating of the economy in
1988-89 and the events of June 1989. This understandably dampened ABC's enthusiasm and ability to
implement those elements of the project designed to support reform, such as the training, policy studies,
and RCC pilot programs. Second, the macroeconomic framework changed significantly during the
project, as a result of high domestic inflation rates, liberalization of commodity prices, and large
devaluations of the exchange rate. This spurred a reorientation of the on-lending program towards higher
value production, raised investment and operating costs for sub-projects, and led to a higher debt service
burden for foreign currency denominated sub-loans. Third, while the review of technical aspects in sub-
project appraisal was relatively strong, limited attention was paid to economic and marketina issues at
the start of the project, particularly production size, economies of scale, the impact of input and output
price changes on profitability, and changes in supply and demand conditions. Fourth, certain loan terms
for some sub-projects were not structured in line with on-lending covenants. In some provinces, there
was a wide variation in the application of interest rates on sub-loans at the start of the project, loan
repayment and grace periods did not match the actual cashflow availability for many investments, and
a few sub-borrowers were required to repay loans more quickly than agreed under the debt service
schedules. Fifth, the financing plans for sub-projects often did not make adequate, if any, provision for
workiny capital requirements, which led to insufficient operating capital to purchase raw materials.
6.     The following factors under the control of the sub-borrower also affected the achievement of
project objectives. First, technologv transfer was limited, which reflected unwillingness of sub-borrowers
to assume foreign exchange risk for the purchase of imported equipment, the limited familiarity of
Chinese design institutes with modern technologies, and an emphasis on upfront investment costs over
long-term net benefits. Second, the design gualitv for agro-processing sub-projects was not high by
international standards, including poor physical layout and inadequate compliance with health and safety
standards. Third, many agro-processing sub-projects did not adequately comply with water pollution
control regulations, particularly treatment of waste water prior to discharge.
7.     The Bank's performance in identification, preparation and appraisal was satisfactory, although
insufficient attention was paid to monitoring and evaluation requirements, analysis of project risks, and
incentives for the transfer of new technologies and compliance with pollution control regulations. The
Bank performance in supervision was highly satisfactory, as the nine missions identified key operational



- iv -
problems and provided useful recommendations.  ABC's performance in project preparation and
implementation was also satisfactory. However, some aspects of ABC's performance were deficient and
required intervention from Bank supervision missions, particularly the poor management information
system, limited supervision from headquarters and provincial staff at the start of the project, and weak
compliance with covenants related to on-lending terms, sub-project review, and procurement
arrangements.
8.    The project's outcome is viewed as satisfactory, since the first and most important objective of
agricultural growth and diversification was achieved with a relatively high degree of sustainability. The
project is not viewed as highly satisfactory because (a) the level of technology transfer in the lending
program was minimal, and (b) the second objective of capacity building was only partially realized and
its sustainability is uncertain.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
9.     The benefits generated by the on-lending program are likely to be sustained throughout the life
of the project, as the sub-borrowers have strong financial incentives to continue to operate the sub-
projects profitably, the macroeconomic framework is expected to remain relatively stable, and commodity
price forecasts indicate no substantial changes in world supply and demand conditions for project
production. Therefore, ABC will not be required to provide any additional technical or financial
assistance for the operation of the sub-projects, and will instead focus on supervision of sub-projects with
outstanding debt, particularly on financial performance, compliance with on-lending terms and conditions,
and overdue debt service payments. However, the sustainability of the small number of problem projects
is less certain. Most of these will require the development of restructuring plans, rescheduling of debt
service, and close supervision by ABC and technical bureaus in order to become sustainable. The
sustainability of the financial sector reform program is also uncertain, in view of the limited achievements
during the project implementation period. However, some recent policy changes indicate that the
Government has begun to reemphasize financial reform, particularly the transformation of the four
specialized banks into autonomous commercial enterprises. The implementation of these new reform
efforts will require extensive technical assistance.
10.   The key lessons learned from the project include the following. First, future operations should
be based on a realistic assessment of Government capacity and commitment for sector reform. This
would suggest a greater emphasis on gradualism and experimentation in the design of Bank finance sector
reform projects in China. Second, the tight phasing of four ABC projects within seven years was not
conducive to effective implementation of RC 111, as there was insufficient time to learn lessons from one
operation and transfer them to the next. Third, ABC's institutional development requirements are much
greater than the limited technical assistance program supported under RC III. Other priority areas include
the development of new business activities, improved operating procedures, computerization, and a wide
range of training and technical assistance requirements to strengthen human resource development. Some
of these issues were addressed in the subsequent Fourth Rural Credit Project. Fourth, despite ABC's
improved performance in the appraisal of sub-projects, additional capacity building is required in the area
of economic and marketing issues. Fifth, future operations need to strengthen incentives for the transfer
of new technologies and compliance with pollution control regulations in sub-project selection and design.
Sixth, the development of an effective management information system is a high priority.  Seventh,
ABC's institutional capacity for supervision must be strengthened, including the appointment of additional
staff.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
THIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CR. 1871-CHA)
PART !: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Project Objectives
1.    When the project was formulated in 1986-87, China's agricultural sector had already undergone
major policy changes and substantial reform. The control and management of agricultural land had
largely been transferred to villages and families, and output prices and marketing arrangements for many
farm products had been liberalized. Grain production dramatically increased in response to these reforms
and, consequently, the Government's sectoral development strategy began to emphasize production of
higher value goods, particularly horticulture, aquaculture, livestock, and agro-processing. The financial
sector had also been partially reformed, with the restructuring of the People's Bank of China as a separate
central bank and the transfer of sectoral investment lending to four specialized banks. This was
accompanied by a greater emphasis on provision of credit for the non-state sector and medium-term
investment, increased autonomy for banks in investment review and decision-making, and the
development of new non-bank financial institutions. The Government's goal was to transform the banks
from administrative agencies closely allied with local governments into independent, competitive
enterprises. Nonetheless, at the time of project preparation, the financial sector remained largely oriented
towards short-term lending, and heavily administered by the central government, which mandated
aggregate credit ceilings, the interest rate structure, and personnel policies.
2.    Previous World Bank Group operations had played an important role in supporting the
Government's development strategy. In agriculture, the Bank had financed more than fifteen projects,
with an emphasis on land and water resources development, agricultural support services, and specialized
product sub-sectors. In finance, the Bank had supported four industrial credit projects and two rural
credit projects. The First and Second Rural Credit Projects (RC I&II) provided funds to the Agricultural
Bank of China (ABC) for medium- and long-term investment, primarily for tree crops, fisheries,
livestock, and agroprocessing in three provinces. They also included a small amount of technical
assistance to strengthen ABC's institutional capacity for sub-project appraisal.
3.    The Third Rural Credit Project (RC III) was designed against this background of on-going sector
reform and the implementation experience of the two previous rural credit operations. Its main objectives
were: (a) to stimulate growth and diversification of agriculture by expanding the availability of medium-
and long-term credit; and (b) to increase the operational efficiency of ABC through institutional
development. The first objective was addressed through provision of investment funds for aquaculture,
tree crops, livestock and agroprocessing in three provinces in the southwest (Guizhou, Sichuan, Yunnan)
and three provinces in the north-central region (Anhui, Henan, Hubei). The second objective was
addressed through support for: (a) capacity building for ABC's three national staff colleges, including
teaching equipment and materials, local and overseas courses, and short-term training programs; (b)
training of project staff, primarily in project appraisal, monitoring, and evaluation; (c) technical assistance
to review and strengthen ABC policies and operations; and (d) a pilot program to introduce Rural Credit



- 2 -
Cooperatives (RCCs) to longer-term lending.' It was intended that these activities would address policy
reform and capacity building issues in greater detail than in RC I&II, in support of the rapidly changing
sector environment. Although not cited as major objectives, the project also emphasized regional issues
of poverty alleviation and a sectoral approach to stimulating growth of production and agroprocessing.
4.     These original objectives were generally appropriate and well designed. They were clearly
spelled out in the project documentation and supported by all the stakeholders, including the central and
provincial governments, the ABC offices at all levels, and the enterprises that borrowed funds. Similarly,
the objectives appropriately reflected the Government implementation capacity and were consistent with
both the Government's development strategy and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy at the time of
preparation. Consequently, there was no reason to revise the objectives during implementation. The only
problem with the original objectives is that they were slightly unrealistic about the pace of financial sector
reform in China. The underlying assumption of the project was that the finance sector was rapidly
changing and the project would support the critical financial and human resources required to reshape the
rural banking system. As reviewed below, this expectation proved to be excessively optimistic.
5.     The design of the project was also appropriate. ABC's existing credit structure had no difficulty
absorbing the additional loan appraisal, administration, and monitoring work associated with the large
number of sub-projects under the project, although, as noted in para. 36, ABC headquarters initially
provided insufficient supervision of the on-lending program. In fact, the number of provinces that
participated in the successor project, the Fourth Rural Credit Project (RC IV), was increased to eleven,
in view of ABC's successful management of the six provinces in RC III. Similarly, the project was not
unduly complex or risky, as it supported a limited number of activities related to lending and capacity
building that were consistent with ABC experience and expertise. Finally, the project design included
significant flexibility to adjust the selection of sub-projects in line with changing economic conditions and
development priorities.
B.    Achievement of Objectives
6.     As reviewed below, the project substantially achieved the objective of agricultural growth and
diversification and partially achieved the objective of institutional capacity building. It made negligible
progress on the secondary goals of poverty alleviation and improved sectoral planning.
Agricultural Growth and Diversification Ohiective
7.     The provision of medium- and long-term credit through the on-lending component made a
significant contribution to stimulating growth and diversification of agriculture in China. The on-lending
program financed about 850 subprojects, which supported the establishment of 80,000 ha of tree crops,
construction of 3,800 ha of fish ponds, the purchase of 3.6 million animals, and the development of
hundreds of agro-processing factories. The total number of subprojects was somewhat less than the 1,200
projected in the SAR, as a result of an increase in the number of large agroprocessing investments and
a corresponding de--line in the number of small investments in tree crops, aquaculture, and livestock
during project implementation.  While the SAR estimated an investment share of 39 percent for
agroprocessing and 34 percent for tree crops, the actual allocation amounted to 59 percent for
agroprocessing and 20 percent for tree crops. The main reductions occurred in the production of gallnut,
black wattle, and apple, where the actual establishment areas of 6,600, 1,900, and 4,400, respectively,
I ABC until recently has been entrusted with holding reserves for and oversight of Rural Credit
Cooperatives, which are financial institutions collectively owned by local farm communities.



- 3 -
were significantly less than the SAR projections of 46,700, 6,000, and 5,700, respectively. As reviewed
in para. 21, this adjustment in investment composition was appropriate in view of the changing market
and economic conditions.
8.     Despite some operational problems, the sub-projects generally met their expected production
targets and achieved satisfactory rates of return. In fact, the final estimates of financial rates of return
(FRR) for the various sub-sectors are significantly higher than those projected in the SAR.2 For
example, the final estimate of the consolidated FRR for all tree crop investments is now estimated at 27
percent, which exceeds the indicative FRRs included in the SAR of 18 percent for rubber, 25 percent for
litchi, and 17 percent for tea. Similarly, the final consolidated estimates of the FRRs for livestock,
aquaculture, and agroprocessing (37, 30, and 31 percent, respectively) are all greater than the FRRs
calculated for representative projects in the SAR, which ranged from 17 percent for lean pig production
to 18 percent for fishponds and to 24 percent for cannery factories. As a result of the improved sub-
sectoral performance, the overall project FRR of 31 percent significantly exceeds the SAR estimate of
20 percent.
9.    This strong financial performance is due primarily to two factors. First, the actual output prices
prevailing in project areas during implementation were significantly higher than the price projections used
in the SAR, while input prices, primarily labor and raw materials, remained close to the SAR estimates.
This change in output prices reflected the implementation of the Government price reform program in
the early-1990s, when many prices were decontrolled and marketing arrangements liberalized. Second,
the pace of sub-project review and approval and the speed of enterprise construction and commissioning
were much quicker than anticipated in the SAR, which hastened the flow of benefits. For example, the
loan was more than half disbursed by the second year of the project, when the SAR assumed
disbursements of 18 percent, and three-quarters disbursed by the third year, when the SAR assumed
disbursements of 41 percent.
10.   The sub-projects also generated good economic benefits, with a consolidated economic rate of
return (ERR) estimated at 18 percent for agroprocessing, 21 percent for tree crops and aquaculture, 30
percent for livestock, and 20 percent for the overall project. However, these ERRs are slightly lower
than some of the indicative ERRs included in the SAR, which projected an overall ERR of 24 percent
for the project. The difference between the expected and actual economic impact of the on-lending
program is due more to changes in the analytical assumptions used in the estimation of ERRs than any
real loss of economic benefits during project implementation. In particular, the extent of price distortions
in the economy is much smaller today than at the time of appraisal, which leads to significantly lower
conversion factors to adjust domestic prices to international levels in the ICR analysis. For example, the
conversion factors of 0.57 for rural labor, 0.88 for electricity, and 1.09 for equipment that were used in
the SAR analysis lead to a lower valuation of shadow-priced inputs, and correspondingly higher valuation
of net benefits, than the corresponding factors of 0.97, 1.25, and 1.25 used in the ICR analysis.
11.   The strong performance of the sub-projects contributed to a healthy financial position of ABC
throughout project implementation. Overall, the project generated profits of Y4.9 million in 1990, Y21.3
million in 1991, Y16.7 million in 1992, and Y17.8 million in 1993. These high profit levels reflect: (a)
2 The SAR included FRR and ERR estimates for eight representative sub-projects, which were then
extrapolated to estimate the overall project FRR and ERR. The ICR mission calculated FRRs and ERRs
for the four major sub-sectors, based on actual cost and benefit data for 1989-1993 and projected data
for 1994-2010 for all sub-projects in each sub-sector, which were then summed up to derive the overall
project FRR and ERR.



- 4 -
a healthy spread between ABC's cost of funds and on-lending rates, amounting to 1.54.0 percent over
the life of the project; (b) relatively low operational costs, which amounted to less than one percent of
total outstanding loans; and (c) timely debt-servicing from sub-borrowers, with overdue loan repayments
amounting to 7 percent of total loans (however, overdue interest payments are slightly higher, amounting
to 12 percent of total due interest, which largely reflects the excessively tight loan terms for some sub-
projects, as reviewed in para. 23).
12.   While the overall economic and financial performance of the on-lending program has been strong,
a number of individual sub-projects have failed to meet production objectives and expected benefits.
About 9 percent of all the sub-projects have been categorized by ABC as "problem projects" because of
financial, technical, or managerial weaknesses, primarily in the agro-processing sub-sector. The main
problem areas have been animal feed mills, slaughterhouses, edible oil mills, ramie processing factories,
and coffee, citrus, and dairy farms. These investments faced three general types of problems, as
reviewed in detail in the following section. First, the construction and commissioning of factories was
delayed, as a result of shortages of local counterpart funds, problems with plant and equipment design
standards, and equipment procurement delays. Second, capacity utilization levels were low due to
problems in raw material procurement and shortage of working capital. Third, revenue performance and
debt servicing were poor due to low production levels, problems with product quality, a decline in
demand for some products, and inadequate loan repayment periods.
13.    The total number of problem sub-projects is relatively small and by no means detracts from the
overall achievement of agricultural diversification and growth. The only major problem with this
objective was the very low level of technology transfer supported under the project. While the project
did introduce some improved technical guidelines for tea rehabilitation, gallnut production, and sheep
breeding, it did not promote the introduction of new technologies in the largest investment area of the
project, agro-processing. This was particularly disappointing in view of the fact that out-dated technology
is one of the main contributors to low productivity and efficiency in the industrial sector in China. As
reviewed below, this reliance on existing, sub-optimal technologies reflects weaknesses in sub-project
design standards, avoidance of international procurement and reliance on domestic equipment suppliers,
and a limited review of economic and environmental issues in sub-project appraisal.
Capacity Building Objective
14.   The project only partially realized the objective of increasing the operational efficiency of ABC
through institutional development.
15.    The upgrading of training colleges and the overall project training program were generally well
implemented and made a moderate contribution to capacity building: 168 core faculty from ABC training
institutions attended short-term overseas courses; foreign education consultants assisted in the design of
new course curricula and materials; new teaching equipment was procured, including projectors, language
laboratory equipment, copying machines, and books; several dozen new courses were developed to train
teachers in ABC's cadre and secondary vocational schools; and about 11,000 senior and mid-level ABC
staff at the national, provincial, and county levels attended short-term domestic training programs in a
variety of subjects. It is clear that these programs helped upgrade ABC staff skills in appraisal,
monitoring, and evaluation, which is highlighted by the noticeable decline in references to inadequate
appraisal by ABC of sub-project feasibility studies from RC II to RC III supervision reports.
Nonetheless, the scope and scale of the training program was slightly smaller than envisioned at the time
of appraisal and only one-half of the IDA credit earmarked for training was drawn down.



- 5 -
16.   Although the studies program was completed on a timely basis, it did not meet its objective of
providing policy guidance for reshaping the role of ABC in the changing financial sector environment.
As reviewed in Table 7 of Part II, many of the studies were general and emphasized description rather
than prescription. As a result, it is difficult to identify any significant changes in ABC operations that
grew out of the studies. This outcome reflects three factors. First, while it was envisioned that ABC
would draw on foreign consultants to gain an international perspective on policy questions, all the studies
were done internally by ABC departments. Second, since several of the studies touched on sensitive
policy issues under the control of the People's Bank of China (PBC) and the Ministry of Finance, ABC
had very limited authority to highlight problems and propose changes to the existing policy framework.
In this regard, the original terms-of-reference for the studies included in the SAR seem ambitious and
unrealistic. Third, as reviewed in para. 21, the Government's overall economic reform program was
significantly curtailed after 1989, which heavily discouraged detailed review and discussion of finance
sector reform issues.
17.   The RCC pilot program achieved mixed results. While it did succeed in introducing longer-term
lending practices to selected RCCs in four provinces, it did not meet the overall objective of establishing
a model for longer-term lending to individual households by RCCs. Despite strong interest by the RCCs
themselves, some ABC branch offices viewed the additional training and supervision requirements related
to RCC lending as an unwelcome administrative burden that distracted them from higher priority
activities, notably the development of their own lending program. Similarly, RCCs were increasingly
engaged in direct competition with ABC for deposits in rural areas, which no doubt dampened ABC's
willingness to support the diversification and strengthening of RCCs. As a result, several branch offices
lacked adequate interest and commitment, which led to delayed implementation of the program and weak
compliance with covenants related to the RCC program. Implementation of the pilot program was
eventually completed in line with the Project Agreement, after close monitoring by several supervision
missions in 1991-93. However, ABC did not complete a review of the implementation experience of
RCC lending that had been requested by Bank supervision missions, as it felt that the recent change in
Government policy about RCC oversight responsibility obviated the need for any further monitoring or
evaluation by ABC.3 The combination of weak implementation and insufficient monitoring and
evaluation precluded the development of an effective model of long-term lending that could be replicated
in other provinces.
Poverty Alleviation and Sectoral Planning Objectives
18.   Despite the stated concern for poverty alleviation and improved sectoral planning in the SAR, the
project included no specific activities designed to support these objectives. While individual sub-projects
may have contributed to income generation for some poor households, particularly in the poorer provinces
of Guizhou and Yunnan, there was no systematic effort to identify or target poor beneficiaries in the on-
lending program. Similarly, there was no increased attention given to a sectoral approach to stimulating
growth of production and agroprocessing under the project. As with RC I&II, sub-projects were
reviewed and approved solely on the basis of the merits of the individual feasibility studies, with little
effort made to develop sectoral lending strategies or transfer lending experiences across different areas.
' ABC will no longer be responsible RCC oversight beginning in 1995. While no detailed transfer
arrangements have been announced, it appears that RCCs will be administered initially by a specialized
department within PBC.



C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
19.   The main factors that substantially affected the achievement of project objectives are summarized
below.
Factors Subject to Government Control
20.   Government Commitment to Reform. Despite the strong commitment to financial sector reform
at the time of appraisal, the Government's sectoral development objectives changed dramatically during
the early years of project implementation. In response to the overheating of the economy in 1988-89 and
the events of June 1989, the Government announced a comprehensive new macroeconomic program in
November 1989 that emphasized short-term stabilization over longer-term institutional reform throughout
the economy. The stabilization program relied heavily on expanding the role of administrative control
measures to manage aggregate demand, which stalled the development of market-based policy instruments
for fiscal and monetary policy. Ir, the finance sector, the Government emphasized the need for banks to
lend in conformance with the state industrial policy and credit plan, and strengthened the role of directed
credit and administered interest rates in resource allocation. This unexpected change in the internal policy
dialogue in China understandably dampened ABC's enthusiasm and ability to implement those elements
of the project designed to spur financial sector reform, such as the training, policy studies, and RCC pilot
programs.
21.   Macroeconomic Policies. Project implementation was significantly affected by the following
changes in the macroeconomic framework. First, demand pressures in the economy became pronounced
in the early years of implementation, which led to rapid increase in domestic inflation. The change in
relative prices spurred a reorientation of the on-lending program towards higher value production, as
demonstrated by the shift of investment from tree crops to agro-processing. The change in absolute
prices raised overall investment costs for sub-projects, which forced ABC to finance a smaller number
of more expensive investments and created additional financing requirements that some sub-borrowers
were unable to meet. Raw material costs were similarly affected, which undermined operational
profitability and increased working capital requirements. Second, the Government enacted a new series
of price reform measures for grain and energy in 1992-93, which affected the profitability of low margin
sub-projects in agro-processing, such as feed mills, edible oil mills, and slaughterhouses. Third, the local
currency experienced significant depreciation over the project implementation period, reflecting large
devaluations of the official exchange rate in 1989-1990, the increasing depreciation of the swap rate in
the Foreign Exchange Adjustment Centers in 1992-93, and the eventual unification of the dual exchange
rate system at a market-clearing rate in 1994. The nominal official rate has more than doubled, from
Y3.7 = $1 at the time of appraisal to Y8.5 = $1 at the time of the ICR. These exchange rate
developments created cash-flow difficulties for many sub-borrowers, who faced an increased local
currency financing requirement for imported capital goods and operating inputs, and a dramatically higher
debt service burden for foreign currency denominated sub-loans.
Factors Subiect to ABC Control
22.    Apnraisal Process. ABC staff demonstrated relatively good competency in the review of sub-
project feasibility studies, due in large part to the extensive training in appraisal methodology supported
under RC l-lI. However, while the review of technical aspects was relatively strong, limited attention
was paid to economic and marketing issues at the start of the project, particularly the optimal size of
production to capitalize on economies of scale, the impact of input and output price changes on sub-
project profitability, a detailed review of supply and demand conditions in product markets, and working



- 7 -
capital requirements. This reflected the general lack of appreciation of economic analysis prevailing
throughout China at the start of the project as well as ABC's weak institutional capacity for economic and
marketing analysis and zeal to commit all the project funds quickly. These issues proved to be extremely
important during the implementation of the project, particularly in view of the large changes in the
macroeconomic framework, and a more rigorous review would have helped ABC weed out some of the
problem sub-projects in the feed mill, slaughter, edible oil, and ramie sub-sectors. ABC received training
in these issues during implementation, which contributed to an improved performance towards the end
of the project.
23.   Loan Terms. As with RC I&II, certain loan terms for some sub-projects were not structured in
line with on-lending covenants. First, there was a fairly wide variation in the application of interest rates
on sub-loans at the start of the project, with many above or below the levels prescribed by project
covenants. Compliance with interest rates improved, however, towards the end of the project as a result
of close monitoring by Bank supervision missions. Second, loan repayment and grace periods did not
match the actual cashflow availability for some investments with long development periods. For example,
the standard loan terms for tree crops, five years repayment with two years grace, required complete
repayment before sub-projects had even reached full production. Third, a few county ABC offices
requested that sub-borrowers repay loans more quickly than required under the agreed debt service
schedules, in order to speed up the recycling of project funds and expand total lending amounts. Fourth,
a few sub-projects ignored the requirement for sub-borrowers to finance 30 percent of project costs by
including non-cash contributions as part of the overall project financing plan, such as land or existing
assets. This led to an unhealthy debt/equity ratio and an excessively high debt service burden.
24.   Procurement. As with RC I&TI, procurement procedures were not adequately followed in RC
III, especially during the first three years of the project when the majority of agro-processing sub-projects
were constructed. In several cases, equipment procurement was broken up into smaller contracts to avoid
the $100,000 threshold for Limited International Bidding (LIB) procedures and ensure purchase from
domestic suppliers. As a result, the LIB share in total procurement amounted to less than 5 percent,
significantly below the SAR estimate of about 20 percent, which contributed to the following problems.
First, little new technology was imported from abroad under the project and, consequently, an important
opportunity for technology transfer was lost. Second, several sub-projects ended up buying incompatible
equipment from different manufacturers as a result of their decision to split the procurement of
manufacturing lines into smaller contracts. Third, many sub-projects did not procure the most modern
and cost-efficient technology, which has hampered their ability to manufacture high quality products and
compete effectively in domestic and export markets. Compliance with procurement procedures improved
towards the middle of project, when ABC headquarters began to closely monitor provincial procurement
actions in response to Bank supervision mission recommendations.
25.   Working Capital. As with RC I&II, working capital was not appropriately treated under the
project. First, the financing plans for sub-projects often did not make adequate, if any, provision for
working capital requirements. As a result, many sub-projects, notably agro-processing enterprises, lacked
sufficient operating capital to purchase raw materials, which contributed to low capacity utilization levels
and poor financial performance. It became difficult to redress this problem during implementation, as
the Government's macroeconomic stabilization program led to a severe tightening of all forms of credit.
Second, ABC inappropriately extended working capital loans in several cases to cover debt service
requirements or offset losses in problem projects.



- 8 -
Factors Subject to Sub-Borrower Control
26.   Technology Transfer.  Many agro-processing sub-projects were based on familiar, existing
technologies in China that were out-dated by international standards, which contributed to low operating
efficiency and productivity. This reluctance to explore alternative technology and equipment options,
particularly from abroad, reflected the following factors: unwillingness of sub-borrowers to assume
foreign exchange risk for the purchase of imported equipment; the limited familiarity of Chinese design
institutes with improved, modern technologies at the time of appraisal; and the traditional Chinese
approach to technology selection, which focuses more on upfront investment costs than long-term net
benefits.
27.   Design Standards. The quality of design and construction for agro-processing sub-projects was
not high by international standards, particularly for food processing and pharmaceutical enterprises. The
physical design of many plants was poor, with inadequate attention given to process layouts, materials
flows, and conveying. Many plant and office buildings were over-designed, with more floor space than
is necessary for efficient operation. Similarly, few sub-projects incorporated any energy or water
conservation measures, which contributed to unnecessarily high utility bills and consumption rates.
Finally, health and safety aspects were routinely given minimal attention, with many factories operating
with unguarded drives, inadequate dust control, high noise and heat levels, excessively steep and
unguarded stairs, and insufficient health and safety equipment for equipment operators such as safety
glasses. These weak design standards contributed to poor operating performance, higher maintenance
costs, an unhealthy environment for workers, and poor product quality in many firms.
28.   Environmental Impact.  Many agro-processing sub-projects did not adequately comply with
provincial water pollution control regulations during their early years of operation. In particular, firms
routinely failed to treat waste water prior to discharge, which created downstream pollution problems.
This poor compliance reflects: (a) limited authority by county Environmental Protection Bureaus (EPBs)
to enforce regulations, particularly when it comes to requiring firms to install pollution control equipment
at the start of a project; (b) the lack of technical expertise in waste water management at design institutes,
which led to insufficient mitigation measures being incorporated into the design of factories; and (c)
inadequate monitoring and evaluation by ABC and EPB of sub-project compliance with regulations.
D.    Project Sustainability
29.   The benefits generated by the on-lending program are likely to be sustained throughout the life
of the project. The sub-projects are generally expected to maintain the current levels of production and
profitability for the following reasons: the sub-borrowers have strong financial incentives to continue to
operate the sub-projects as efficiently as possible, since their own remuneration is related to sub-project
performance; the Government's price reform program is largely completed so there should be no more
significant changes in the policy framework that would affect input and output pricing; the World Bank's
forecast of commodity price trends indicates no substantial changes in world supply and demand
conditions for the major project production over the next ten years; ABC's capacity to monitor and
restructure problem projects has been strengthened under the follow-on project, RC IV; and, despite a
few management problems at individual sub-projects, the overall institutional capacity in the on-lending
program is adequate to ensure continued sound financial and technical management. The main risk that
could threaten the overall sustainability of the on-lending program is a general reversal in the
Government's sectoral and macroeconomic reform program and a return to administered control of the
economy, which is not deemed to be likely.



-9-
30.   The sustainability of the small number of problem projects reviewed in para. 12 is less certain.
Government reforms in pricing and marketing have substantially eroded the profitability of several
investments in feed mills, edible oil mills, and slaughterhouses, which were predicated on the assumption
of continued state control of raw material prices. Similarly, the decline in world demand for ramie
textiles has contributed to low capacity utilization levels in ramie mills, and domestic over-supply of citrus
has affected the profitability of citrus sub-projects. Finally, technical or managerial problems continue
to beset a number of coffee, livestock and dairy sub-projects. Most of these problem projects will require
the development of restructuring plans, rescheduling of debt service, and close supervision by ABC and
technical bureaus in order to become sustainable.
31.   The sustainability of the financial sector reform program supported under the project is also
uncertain, in view of the limited achievements during the project implementation period. However, some
recent policy changes indicate that the Government has begun to reemphasize financial reform,
particularly the transformation of the four specialized banks into autonomous commercial enterprises.
Two key steps were taken in 1994. First, ABC's non-commercial functions, including the financing of
staple crop purchases, grain storage, agricultural development, and poverty alleviation, have been
transferred to the newly created Agricultural Development Bank. Second, ABC and the other specialized
banks have introduced a number of new operating procedures to strengthen market-based intermediation,
including a new accounting system based on international principles, new asset liability ratios that move
away from strict reliance on administered credit plans in resource allocation, and improved risk analysis
in credit appraisal and increased reliance on guarantees. If these reform efforts continue and deepen, the
original financial sector reform objectives of the project will be achieved, albeit after a substantial delay.
E.    Bank Performance
32.    The Bank's performance in identification, preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. This work
was directly based on the Government's development strategy, the Bank's country assistance program,
and recently completed Bank economic and sector work, particularly the 1987 China Finance and
Investment Report.  As a result, there was a fairly strong consensus between the Bank and the
Government about the overall objectives and design of the operation as well as the conditions necessary
to ensure successful project implementation. Nonetheless, some aspects of the Bank's work were weak.
First, monitoring and evaluation requirements were not reviewed in detail and, as a result, there was no
common understanding of what data should be collected by ABC and reported to the Bank at the start of
the project. Second, the review of risks was very cursory and focussed primarily on ABC's institutional
capacity and financial performance. It did not address several key factors that ended up playing a
significant role in project implementation, such as the macroeconomic policy framework, Government
commitment to financial sector reform and the institutional capacity of design institutes and sub-borrowers
in technical design of sub-projects. Tnird, the appraisal phase did not adequately review and strengthen
incentives for the transfer of new technologies and compliance with pollution control regulations in sub-
project selection and design. Finally, the project promised more than it was designed to deliver in the
areas of poverty alleviation and improved agricultural sector planning.
33.    The Bank performance in supervision was highly satisfactory. The nine missions accurately
reported implementation progress; identified the key operational problems and provided useful
interventions and recommendations; paid close attention to the overall development impact of the project;
and showed a high degree of flexibility in modifying project arrangements in response to changing
implementation conditions.  Supervision missions made particularly important contributions in the
following areas: developing a common monitoring framework for problem projects and debt service
arrears; strengthening the review of market conditions in ABC's appraisal of sub-project feasibility



- 10-
studies; expanding the role of ABC headquarters in project supervision; enforcing compliance with
covenants related to procurement, sub-loan terms, and free-limits; ensuring continued implementation of
the RCC pilot program; and, most importantly, improving the technical design and operating efficiency
of many individual sub-projects. The only deficiencies in supervision were inadequate enforcement of
environmental protection covenants; limited review of the capacity building components, particularly the
upgrading of the national staff colleges and the training program; and under-supervising of the project
during the last two years. Project implementation involved no significant deviation from Bank policies
and procedures.
F.    Borrower Performance
34.   ABC's performance in project preparation was satisfactory, as it prepared a comprehensive
feasibility study for the project that adequately covered technical, financial, economic, and institutional
factors. ABC's overall performance in implementation was generally satisfactory. Project staff in the
central, provincial, and county offices were committed to the project objectives; approached the selection
and appraisal of sub-projects seriously; provided counterpart funds on a timely basis; responded
effectively to changes in the macroeconomic and sectoral policy environment; generally monitored the
financial viability of sub-projects and loan repayments; and generally took appropriate action to
restructure problem projects, such as the rescheduling of loan terms and the calling of guarantees.
Nonetheless, some aspects of ABC's performance were deficient and required intervention from Bank
supervision missions, as follows.
35.    First, some parts of ABC's monitoring and evaluation framework were not fully developed at the
start of the project, including a unified management information system, common performance parameters
for sub-projects, an agreed definition for "problem project," and a complete list of problem projects and
overdue loans. As many of the provincial audit reports noted, the core of the problem was weak and
inadequate record keeping, accounting, and reporting at the county branch level (in fact, Guizhou
Province received qualified audits in 1990 and 1991 because of weaknesses in record keeping and
management controls). As a result, there was often incomplete and conflicting data regarding sub-project
investments amounts, loan terms, working capital financing, and loan repayment rates at the county sub-
branch and provincial branch offices -- which made it difficult for ABC headquarters and Bank
supervision missions to adequately assess portfolio quality and overall project implementation.
36.    Second, the role and responsibilities of ABC headquarters in supervision was not clearly defined
at the start of the project. This did not reflect any lack of commitment to the project but was instead due
to (a) inadequate staffing in the World Bank Division of the International Department, where eleven
people were responsible for managing five World Bank and IFAD projects totalling $620 million; and
(b) the increasing emphasis in China on devolution of authority from the central government down to the
provinces. Although the project included a legal covenant related to the appointment of ten additional
staff members to strengthen project management at ABC headquarters, only two additional staff were
appointed, which was insufficient for the work load. This pattern of limited supervision was repeated
at the provincial level, where small project management offices lacked the necessary staff and financial
resources for effective monitoring of county offices.
37.   Third, compliance with covenants related to on-lending terms, sub-project review, and
procurement arrangements was poor. The most glaring example was the evasion of the requirement for
IDA review of sub-loans in excess of $3 million in the Gallnut Processing Project in Guizhou Province.
Despite the warning of a June 1988 supervision mission to the county ABC sub-branch office not to split
a large gallnut investment into smaller loans in order to avoid a review by ABC headquarters and the



- 11 -
World Bank, the county office went ahead and approved a series of sub-loans totalling $6.3 million for
this one sub-project without any prior approval. This violation was discovered by a November 1991
supervision mission, which led to the cancellation of the sub-project and the refunding of the amount of
IDA funds disbursed to the sub-project. The cancellation of the sub-project prompted ABC headquarters
to assume a more aggressive role in supervision. It convened a workshop in 1992 for RC III & IV
project staff that highlighted the importance of compliance with Bank and headquarters guidelines,
accurate statistical reporting, improved auditing, and increased emphasis on market and environmental
analysis in the appraisal process.
G.    Assessment of Outcome
38.   The project's outcome is viewed as satisfactory, since the first and most important objective of
agricultural growth and diversification was achieved with a relatively high degree of sustainability. The
FRR of 31 percent for the on-lending program significantly exceeds the SAR estimate of 20 percent and
is particularly impressive in view of the dramatic change in the macroeconomic policy environment
during implementation. The ERR of 20 percent is slightly lower than the SAR estimate of 24 percent,
but nonetheless indicates a high level of economic benefits to society. Overall, the project had a fairly
strong developmental impact through the provision of scarce investment funds for the expansion of
agricultural production and value-added processing in underdeveloped rural areas in six provinces. The
project is not viewed as highly satisfactory because (a) the level of technology transfer in the lending
program was minimal, and (b) the second objective of capacity building was only partially realized and
its sustainability is uncertain.
H.    Future Operation
39.   The future operation of the sub-projects will generally not require any additional technical or
financial assistance from ABC, as all of them have been commissioned and most are operating profitably
(although a few may require additional amounts of working capital as they reach full production). ABC's
main responsibility will be continued supervision of sub-projects with outstanding debt, particularly of
financial performance, compliance with on-lending terms and conditions, and overdue debt service
payments. This supervision will involve monthly visits by county ABC staff to sub-projects, monthly
reports from county offices to provincial offices, and quarterly reports from provincial offices to ABC
headquarters. The quarterly reports for ABC headquarters will include aggregate data on sub-projects
(number approved, production capacity, total investment, loan amount), types of beneficiaries (state or
non-state), loan performance (disbursements, repayments, overdues), and the use of recycled funds.
However, the future operation of the small number of problem projects will require more involvement
from ABC in project restructuring and debt rescheduling.
40.   The future implementation of ABC's institutional reform program will require extensive technical
assistance. RC IV, which was approved in 1990 and is scheduled to close in end-1995, has addressed
some of the capacity building requirements.  It has supported an upgrading of ABC financial
management, development of longer-term lending strategies and programs, review of lending policies for
major client groups, strengthening of the MIS, procurement of office technology and equipment, and
development of new training programs. Other technical assistance requirements will be addressed under
the proposed FY98 Rural Banking Commercialization Project (RBC), as reviewed below.
41.   The Bank will continue to monitor the operation of the RC III activities in conjunction with the
supervision of RC IV and the preparation of RBC. It is recommended that OED conduct an impact



- 12 -
evaluation report of RC II-IV (an audit report for RC I was prepared in 1992) in FY96-97, which would
provide useful input into the design and appraisal of the RBC Project.
I.     Lessons Learned
42.    The key lessons learned from the project are summarized below.
* Future operations should be based on a realistic assessment of Government capacity and
commitment for finance sector reform. This would suggest a greater emphasis on gradualism and
experimentation in the design of Bank finance sector projects, and avoidance of comprehensive
blueprints or large, one-time policy actions.
* The tight phasing of four ABC projects within seven years was not conducive to effective
implementation of RC III: there was insufficient time to learn lessons from one operation and
transfer them to the next; both ABC and Bank staff tended to focus more on preparation of new
projects instead of supervision of existing ones; and the cumulative requirements of a large and
complicated portfolio over-stretched the limited capacity of ABC's small International
Department.
* ABC's institutional development requirements are much greater than the limited technical
assistance program supported under RC III. Other priority areas include the development of new
business activities, improved operating procedures, computerization, and a wide range of training
and technical assistance requirements to strengthen human resource development.
* Despite ABC's improved performance in the appraisal of sub-projects, additional capacity
building is required in the area of economic and marketing issues. Key topics include the optimal
size of production to capitalize on economies of scale, the impact of input and output price
changes on sub-project profitability, a detailed review of supply and demand conditions in product
markets, and working capital requirements.
* While the on-lending program generally supported viable enterprises with good economic
benefits, the level of technology transfer and environmental protection in sub-projects was low.
Future operations need to strengthen incentives for the transfer of new technologies and
compliance with pollution control regulations in sub-project selection and design.
* ABC does not have an adequate management information system, which impedes effective
monitoring of ABC's financial position and portfolio quality. This reflects weaknesses in (a)
human resources, especially financial management and accounting skills at the county level, and
monitoring and evaluation skills at the provincial and headquarter levels; and (b) operating
systems, particularly incompatibility problems between various hardware systems throughout the
country, outdated equipment in many branch and sub-branch offices, and poorly designed
software packages.
* Limited supervision by ABC headquarters and provincial staff at the start of the project
exacerbated many of the implementation problems in the project, such as weak compliance with
project covenants, low level of technology transfer, and insufficient appraisal of economic and
marketing issues in the review of sub-projects. ABC's institutional capacity for supervision still
requires additional strengthening, including the appointment of additional staff.



- 13 -
43.    Many of these lessons were incorporated into the preparation of RC IV and all of them are being
addressed under the proposed RBC Project, as follows. First, the project reflects the Government's
phased approach to financial sector reform, with an emphasis on the high priority institutional
development requirements of ABC instead of on broad macroeconomic or sectoral policy changes.
Second, the timing of the new project has been set to ensure that preparation work does not divert ABC
staff from supervision of the on-going portfolio, as preparation work will start a few months before RC
IV is scheduled to close. Third, the project will encompass a wider range of capacity building programs.
These include: (a) new business activities, including preparation of business plans for new financial
products and services being introduced and detailed operating guidelines for implementation; (b) improved
operating procedures, particularly in the areas of accounting, financial statement reporting, portfolio
classification, risk management, and asset and liability management; (c) restructuring of the branch office
network, through closure of unprofitable offices and opening of new offices in priority markets; and (d)
computerization, through preparation of an updated five-year computer masterplan, provision of hardware
and software, and training.  Fourth, the project will strengthen ABC's institutional capacitv for
monitoring and evaluation, through development of an improved management information system and
increased emphasis on headquarter and provincial supervision of branch and sub-branch activities.
Finally, the project will emphasize technology transfer and environmental protection, through (a)
technology upgrading to improve production quality and capitalize on economies of scale in township and
village enterprises; (b) improved compliance with national health, safety, and environmental standards;
and (c) preparation of detailed technical criteria for several high priority investment areas to enhance
technology transfer.



- 14 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Achievement of Objectives
Not
Substantial    Partial   Negligible    applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                        X
Sector policies                                                 x
Financial objectives                   X
Institutional development                          X
Physical objectives                    X
Poverty reduction                                               X
Gender concerns                                                               x
Other social objectives                                                       X
Environmental objectives                            X
Public sector management                                                      X
Private sector development             X
Project Sustainability
Likely                              Unlikely                             Uncertain
x
Bank Performance
Highly satisfactory         Satisfactory        Deficient
Identification                                               X
Preparation assistance                                       X
Appraisal                                                    X
Supervision                         X



- 15 -
Borrower Performance
Highly satisfactory          Satisfactory        Deficient
Preparation                                                   X
Implementation                                                X
Covenant compliance                                                              x
Operation                                                     x
Assessment of Outcome
Highly satisfactory       Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory      Highly unsatisfactory
x



- 16 -
Table 2: RELATFD BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Year of
Loan/credit title                                Purpose                approval   Status
Preceding Operations:
Rural Credit I (Cr. 1462-CHA)      Provision of medium- and long-term    FY84      Completed
loans in Guangxi for investment in
aquaculture, orchards, agroprocessing,
livestock and TA.
Rural Credit II (Cr. 1642-CHA)     Provision of medium- and long-term    FY86      Completed
loans in Fujian and Hunan for investment
in aquaculture, orchards, agroprocessing,
livestock, and TA.
Following Operations:
Rural Credit IV (Cr. 2182-CHA/ Ln.   Provision of medium- and long-term  FY91     Under
3265-CHA)                          loans in nine provinces of Jilin,              Implementat
Liaoning, Shaanxi, Jiangxi, Guangdong,         ion
Inner Mongolia, Hunan, Guangxi, H4ebei
and Beijing Municipality for investment
in tree crops, livestock, aquaculture,
agroprocessing, and also for institutional
development of ABC.



- 17 -
Table 3: PROJEcr TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle              Date planned            Date actual/latest estimate
Identification                        09/10/86                      09/10/86
Preparation                           12/13/86                      12/13/86
Appraisal                             04/15/87                      05/07/87
Negotiations                          10/01/87                      12/11/87
Board presentation                    11/17/87                      01/26/88
Signing                               01/03/88                      02/29/88
Effectiveness                         04/01/88                      06/17/88
Project Completion                    12/31/92                      06/30/94
Loan closing                          06/30/93                      06/30/94



- 18 -
Table 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ Million)
FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91   FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95
Appraisal estimate        14.0   30.0  70.0  120.0  160.0  170.0
Actual                    13.6   91.9  125.4  148.7  147.8  158.1  163.8  163.9
Actual as % of estimate  97.1  306.3  179.1  123.9   92.4   93.0    ..
Date of final disbursement: July 7, 1994



- 19 -
Table 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
(Not Applicable)
Table 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
(Not Applicable)



- 20 -
Table 7: STUDIFS INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Purpose as defined at            Status               Impact of study
Study                     appraisal/redefined
Banking           Review ABC's credit plan, interest    Completed.    The study provided a good summary
Management and   rate structure, working capital                      of ABC procedures, which increased
Credit Policy     financing arrangements, long-term                   the transparency of ABC operations.
lending arrangements, and loan                      However, it was of limited impact
procedures                                          since most of the policy issues that
were reviewed were not under the
control of ABC (PBC and MOF,
which have the mandate for these
issues, did not participate in the
study).
Loan Recovery    Review ABC's loan recovery          Completed        The study provided some useful
Policy           procedures and bad-debt provision                    recommendations to ABC
policy.                                             management about how to strengthen
loan recovery, which have generally
been implemented. However, the
review of bad debt provisions had no
impact, in view of ABC's reluctance
to write-off bad debts.
ABC Operational  Analyze the cost of ABC transactions  Completed      The study helped quantify the costs
Costs            in order to reduce overhead and                      of ABC operations, which provided
improve efficiency.                                 some background support for the
recent separation of commercial and
policy based lending.
Rural Financing    Review ABC policies and procedures  Completed      While the study provided an
related to rural intermediation.                    interesting overview of rural finance
issues, it was very general and did
not provide any specific or useful
recommendations.
Enterprise        Review ABC policies and procedures  Completed       The report was fairly short and
Financing        related to enterprise financing.                     cursory.
Rural Credit      Review RCC institutional structure  Completed       This report was of limited impact, as
Cooperatives     and identify measures to strengthen                  it was very general and did not
Reform            operational independence from ABC.                  provide any useful policy guidance to
assist in the transfer of RCCs from
ABC to PBC.



- 21 -
Table 8a: PROJECT COSTS
Item                          Appraisal estimate ($ M)       Actual/latest ($ M)
Local    Foreign    Total   Local    Foreign    Total
A. ABC Subloans
Tree Crops                 103.4       11.5   114.9    76.5          8.5    85.0
Livestock                   44.4       11.0    55.4    44.0         11.0    55.0
Aquaculture                 30.8        2.7    33.5    25.8         2.2    28.0
Agro-processing             79.4       52.8   132.2   171.9        58.6   230.5
Sub-Total                258.0       78.0   336.0   318.2         80.3   398.5
B. Technical Assistance      2.5        1.5      4.0      2.6        1.4     4.0
Total                      260.5       79.5   340.0   320.8         81.7   402.5
Table 8b: PRoJEcT FINANCING
Source                        Appraisal estimate ($ M)         Actual ($ M)
Local    Foreign    Total   Local    Foreign    Total
IDA                        90.5       79.5     170.0    82.2      81.7   163.9
ABC                        69.2        0.0      69.2    81.8       0.0    81.8
Sub-Borrowers             100.8        0.0     100.8   156.8       0.0   156.8
Total                 260.5       79.5      340Q0    320.8     81.7   402.5



- 22 -
Table 9: EcONONMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Appraisal Estimate          Actual/latest Estimate
FRR        ERR       NPV      FRR         ERR      NPV
Activity                       (%)         (%)   (Y M)        (%)         (%)   (Y M)
Tree Crops                    17-25      19-38                 27          22       192
Livestock                     17-22      15-39                 37          30      155
Aquaculture                     18          30                 30          21       40
Agro-processing              20-24       16-20                 31          18      409
Total Project                   20          24    1,283        31          20      796



- 23 -
Table 10: SrATUS OF LEGAL COVFNANTS
Agree   Section   Covenant Present    Original      Revised     Description of covenant                       Comments
ment                type    status    fulfillment   fulfillment
date         date
DCA    2.02       5         CP                                  Free-limit subloan defined as not    flhe Guhdou Gallmnit Proainu
exceeding $3 million              subloanexceeded the fiee-limit;
IDA requested the return of the
subloan to project account
Sch. 1,  5         CP                                   ABC to approve and present each    Abxxt 20  &     vee expd
Para                                                    subloan to IDA for approval or, in  to be submitted to IDA for
3(2)                                                    the case of free-limit subloans, for  appovl at the irme ol appradid;
authorization to withdraw from the   none were submitted durin2
Credit Account                    implementation
3.01     3         C                                    Terms of onlending to ABC:
repayment of principal within 20
years, including 5 years grace, in
RMB withdrawn and SDR
equivalent of foreign currency
withdrawn; interest at rate of 4.5%
3.02     3         C                                    ABC to receive an interest rate   Average spread during
spread of not less than 2%        implementation was ?.5 %
3.05     5         C                                    Project provinces to maintain
Project Management Committees
with acceptable composition and
functions
3.06     5         C                                    Government and IDA to exchange
views on interest rates charged on
subloans
3.07     5         C                                    Government to ensure that Yunnan  Improved clonal material
Province cooperates with ABC in    developed under the pmjet and
carrying out Tea Rehabilitation   widely used
Program acceptable to IDA
3.08     9         CP        12/31/89                   Guizhou to complete a review of    Swdieswere ofpoorquality bLt
progress in implementation of     uee r es ad by IDA
galinut, pasture development, and    since ABC indicated that no
sheep breeding programs and       furtherlending wouldoccurin
consult with IDA                   i  ars. Houever, xiition d
gallnut lending did occur



- 24 -
Agree   Section   Covenant Present    Original       Revised     Description of covenant                      Comnwnts
ment                type    status    fulfillment   fulfillment
date         date
3.09     6         CP                                   Investment projects to be         Many agio.pnx    J) pMrXt;
implemented in conformity with    cdd not k,bw prr ld polluion
appropriate environmental         regulaticns regarding WsAtewwater
guidelines                        treatment
PA      2.01 (b) 5          C                                    ABC to carry out the Project in
accordance with arrangements in
Part A of Schedule to PA
2.10 (a) 5         CP                                   ABC to carry out a pilot program    Implementation was slow and
of RCC subloans                   %c due t ABCs hU of iri
and commitment
2.10 (b) 9         NC        12130/89                   ABC to complete a review with     Review was not don- on timely
IDA of progress in implementation   basis andwas &n diurppd, as a
of RCC program and extend         result of unexpected ovement
program to other provinces        decision to separate RCCs frnm
ABC
4.01      1        C         6/30                       Financial covenants, including
Annually                   submission of certified copies of
audited accounts and financial
statements and audit reports of
project and branch accounts
Sch,     5         CP                                   ABC to appoint 10 new staff       ABC cny appinrd  :  additionl
Part A,                                                 members to its Foreign Capital    two staff members
Para 3                                                  Division
(c)
Sch,     5         C                                    ABC to carry out staff training
Part A,                                                 under Part B.2 of Project under
Para 4                                                  training program agreed between
IDA and ABC annually
Sch,     9         C                                    ABC to furnish semi-annual
Part A,                                                 progress reports within 60 days of
Para 5                                                  end of each semester
Sch,     12        C                                    ABC to carry out studies under
Part A,                                                 Part B.3 of the Project in
Para 6                                                  accordance with TOR and timing
agreed with IDA and furnish
results to IDA for review and
comment



- 25 -
Agree   Section   Covenant Present    Original        Revised     Description of covenant                        Comments
ment                 type    status    fulfillment   fulfillment
date         date
Sch,     5          C                                    ABC/RCCs to appraise investment
Part B,                                                  projects in accordance with
Para 1                                                   procedures and criteria set out in
project appraisal manual
Sch,     5          NC                                   ABC to furnish design and          Plans never submitted for tea
Part B                                                   specifications of typical rubber and   Requirement for rubber wa~
Pan 5                                                    tea processing plants before first    dropped since project neve:
subloan was approved by ABC        financed new processing plan
Sch,     4          CP                                   Sub-borrowers to contribute not    Overal contnbution was abou
Part C,                                                  less than 309S of total cost of     40%, although some individu
Para 1                                                   investment project                   s sfjie  l ed to pyzk:e 30F
Sch,     3          CP                                   Sub-borrowers to pay interest at   There was a wide variation ir
Part C,                                                  ABC's or RCC's prevailing rate    interestratelevelsatthestarto
Para 2                                                   for similar loans for similar      ltb project, which was co;nte
purposes                           during implementation
Sch,     3          C                                    ABC to hold repayments from
Part D,                                                  RCCs in separate account at
Para 4                                                   provincial branches and use for
further lending to RCCs
Sch,     5          CP                                   Procurement procedures: Shopping   There ere several violations oi
Part E,                                                  Procurement based on three price    LIB produres at the start of the
Pam                                                      quotations for equipment estimated   project
1&2                                                      to cost less than $100,000 and for
livestock; LIB Procurement for
equipment estimated to cost more
than $100,000
Sch,     5          C                                    Prior IDA review of invitations to
Part E,                                                  bid, proposed awards, and final
Pan 4                                                    contracts for goods and services
estimated to cost $500,000 or more



- 26 -
Table 11: COMPLIANCE WITII OPERATIONAL MANUAI, STATEMENTS
(Not Applicable)



- 27 -
Table 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of
project cycle                    Planned            Revised              Actual
Weeks         $    Weeks         $      Weeks        $
Through appraisal              na         na       na        na      104.2    227.8
Appraisal-board                na         na       na        na       82.9    165.2
Board-effectiveness            na         na       na        na        6.4     18.5
Supervision                    na         na       na        na      136.9    312.9
Completion                     na         na       na        na       11.0     20.2
Total                                                            341.4    744.7



Table 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Stage of                               Number of    Days          Specialized staff                                      Types
project cycle               Month/year   persons       in field    skills represented        Performance ratine         of problems
Implementation   Development
status      objectives
Through appraisal              09/86
11/86        10          35       Finance/Economics/
Agriculture/Aquaculture/
Livestock/Procurement/
Agroprocessing/
Human Resource Development
Appraisal through              04/87          8          25      Finance/Economics/
Board approval                                                     Agriculture/
Livestock/Agroprocessing/
Human Resource Development
09/87          1          14           Finance
Supervision                    07/88         6           30      Finance/Economics/         HS             NR
Agriculture/Agroprocessing
03/89         3           10      Finance/Economics/        HS             NR
Agriculture/Agroprocessing
10/89         1           7            Finance              HS             NR
11/90         7          20       Finance/Economics/        HS             NR
Agriculture/Agroprocessing/
Aquaculture
11/91         7          20       Finance/Economics/        HU             NR          Proc/TA/Env/
Agriculture/Agroprocessing/                              Proj Mgmt/
Aquaculture                                      Tech/Training
11/92         6          15       Finance/Economics/         U             NR         Proc/Tech/Env/
Agriculture/Agroprocessing/                            Tech/Proj Mgmt
Livestock             U             NR          Env/Technical
08/93         2           15  Environment/Agroprocessing      U            NR            Technical
05/94         1            7            Finance               S            NR
Completion                     11/94          3          14      Finance/Economics/          S              S
Agroprocessing



- 29 -                             Appendix A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
THIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CR. 1871-CHA)
MISSION AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    A World Bank mission comprising Rick Scobey, Brian Argyle, and Basil Wakelin visited
China from November 8 to December 2, 1994 to review the implementation of the Third Rural Credit
Project (RC III) as background for the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
The work included discussions in Beijing and field visits in Guizhou, Sichuan, and Yunnan Provinces.
The mission would like to thank all the ABC Head Office and provincial staff that participated in the
visit for the open and comprehensive discussions, the warm hospitality, and the well organized field
visits. The findings of the mission are summarized below.
.i. Obiective
2.    The objectives of RC III were: (a) to stimulate growth and diversification of agriculture by
expanding the availability of medium- and long-term credit; and (b) to increase the operational
efficiency of ABC through institutional development. The first objective was addressed through
provision of investment funds for aquaculture, tree crops, livestock and agroprocessing in six
provinces. The second objective was addressed through support for: (a) capacity building for ABC's
three national staff colleges; (b) training of project staff, primarily in project appraisal, monitoring,
and evaluation; (c) technical assistance to review and strengthen ABC policies and operations; and (d)
a pilot program to introduce Rural Credit Cooperatives (RCCs) to longer-term lending. These
objectives were generally well designed and clearly spelled out in the project documentation.
Similarly, they appropriately reflected the government implementation capacity and were consistent
with both the Government's development strategy and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy.
Consequently, there was no reason to revise the objectives during implementation. The only problem
was that the objectives were slightly unrealistic about the pace of financial sector reform in China.
B. Implementation Experience
3.    The project substantially achieved the objective of agricultural growth and diversification.
The on-lending program financed about 850 subprojects, which supported the establishment of 80,000
ha of tree crops, construction of 3,800 ha of fish ponds, the purchase of 3.6 million animals, and the
development of hundreds of agro-processing factories. The total number of subprojects was
somewhat less than the 1,200 projected in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), due to adjustments in the
composition of investments arising from changing market and economic conditions. The sub-projects
generally met their expected production targets and achieved good rates of return. Despite the overall
strong performance, the on-lending program faced two problems. First, about 9 percent of all sub-
projects failed to meet production objectives and expected benefits, primarily in the agro-processing
sub-sector, due to technical and financial weaknesses in design and operation. Second, there was a



- 30 -                               Appendix A
very low level of technology transfer in most sub-projects, despite the fact that out-dated technology
is one of the main contributors to low productivity and efficiency in the industrial sector in China.
4.    The project only partially realized the objective of increasing the operational efficiency of
ABC through institutional development. The upgrading of training colleges and the overall project
training program were generally well implemented and made a moderate contribution to capacity
building. The studies program, however, did not meet its objective of providing policy guidance for
reshaping the role of AEtC in the changing financial sector environment, as many of the studies were
general and emphasized description rather than prescription. Similarly, the RCC pilot program did
not meet the overall objective of establishing a model for longer-term lending to individual households
by RCCs, as implementation was weak due to limited interest and commitment from ABC.
5.    The following factors under the control of the Government and ABC substantially affected the
achievement of project objectives. First, the government commitment to financial sector reform
declined significantly during the early years of implementation, in response to the overheating of the
economy in 1988-89 and the events of June 1989. Second, the macroeconomic framework changed
significantly during the project, as a result of high domestic inflation rates, liberalization of
commodity prices, and large devaluations of the exchange rate. This spurred a reorientation of the
on-lending program towards higher value production, raised investment and operating costs for sub-
projects, and led to a higher debt service burden for foreign currency denominated sub-loans. Third,
while the review of technical aspects in sub-project appraisal was relatively strong, ABC continued to
pay insufficient attention to economic and marketing issues, particularly production size, economies of
scale, the impact of input and output price changes on profitability, and changes in supply and
demand conditions. Fourth, loan terms for sub-projects were often not structured in line with on-
lending covenants. There was a fairly wide variation in the application of interest rates on sub-loans
at the start of the project, loan repayment and grace periods did not match the actual cashflow
availability for many investments, and some sub-borrowers were required to repay loans more quickly
than agreed under the debt service schedules.
6.    The following factors under the control of the sub-borrower also affected the achievement of
project objectives. First, technology transfer was limited, which reflected unwillingness of sub-
borrowers to assume foreign exchange risk for the purchase of imported equipment, the limited
familiarity of Chinese design institutes with modern technologies, and an emphasis on upfront
investment costs over long-term net benefits. Second, the design quality for agro-processing sub-
projects was not high by international standards, including poor physical layout and inadequate
compliance with health and safety standards. Third, many agro-processing sub-projects did not
adequately comply with pollution control regulations, particularly treatment of waste water prior to
discharge.
C. Project Outcome
7.     The project's outcome is viewed as satisfactory, since the first and most important objective
of agricultural growth and diversification was achieved with a relatively high degree of sustainability.
The project is not viewed as highly satisfactory because (a) the level of technology transfer in the
lending program was minimal, and (b) the second objective of capacity building was only partially
realized and its sustainability is uncertain. The benefits generated by the on-lending program are
likely to be sustained throughout the life of the project, as the sub-borrowers have strong financial
incentives to continue to operate the sub-projects profitably, the macroeconomic framework is



- 31 -                               App2endix A
expected to remain relatively stable, and commodity price forecasts indicate no substantial changes in
world supply and demand conditions for project production.
D. Lessons Learned
8.    The key lessons learned from the project include the following. First, future operations
should be based on a realistic assessment of Government capacity and commitment for sector reform.
This would suggest a greater emphasis on gradualism and experimentation in the design of Bank
finance sector reform projects in China. Second, the tight phasing of four ABC projects within seven
years was not conducive to effective implementation of RC III, as there was insufficient time to learn
lessons from one operation and transfer them to the next. Third, ABC's institutional development
requirements are much greater than the limited technical assistance program supported under RC III.
Fourth, despite ABC's improved performance in the appraisal of sub-projects, additional capacity
building is required in the area of economic and marketing issues. Fifth, future operations need to
strengthen incentives for the transfer of new technologies and compliance with pollution control
regulations in sub-project selection and design. Sixth, the development of an effective management
information system is a high priority. Seventh, ABC's institutional capacity for supervision must be
strengthened, including the appointment of additional staff and the issuance of clear guidelines on the
roles, responsibilities, and frequency of supervision.



- 32 -                              Appendix B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHNA
THIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CR. 1871-CHA)
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Background
1.    The Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) came into contact with the World Bank in 1981. In 1984,
ABC introduced the World Bank's First Rural Credit Project of SDR 47.2 million (US$50 million
equivalent), and after that, the Second Rural Credit Project of SDR 84 million (US$90 million equivalent)
in 1986.
2.    The implementation of the two projects had made a great contributions to the development of the
rural economy in the project areas, to the creation of the farmer's employment opportunities, poverty
alleviation, adding of the value of agricultural outputs, increasing of production efficiency and the
supplements of agricultural products to the market and the quality of products, meanwhile helping ABC
to increase its capabilities for preparation, appraisal, execution and supervision of the rural credit
projects. Therefore, the Government of China had requested an IDA Credit of SDR 123.8 million
(US$170 million equivalent) to finance ABC a Third Rural Credit Project. The project funds has been
channeled through ABC in the form of medium and long term loans to farm households and enterprises
for the development of fruits, livestock aquaculture and agroprocessing. The project would finance
investments in a few projects through rural credit cooperatives (RCC). The project would provide
technical assistance to strengthen ABC's in-house training capabilities, and to help improve ABC's
operational systems and procedures in line with the ongoing banking system reforms at that time.
3.    Agriculture in China, including crops, livestock, forestry and fisheries, is a major source of
income for some 190 million "arm families, and accounts for about 35 percent of the country's GDP at
appraisal. Only about 137 million of China's 960 million ha are arable. Foodgrains occupy about 70
percent of the crops land and account for about one-third of total agricultural outputs. Farming systems
of China are intensive, with large inputs of labor, chemical and organic fertilizer and water. This
intensive system of production has allowed China to meet the basic food requirements of its population
(about 22 percent of the world's total) from less than 8 percent of the world's arable land.
4.    Major revisions in China's farm policies since 1979, most importantly, a shift from communal
to family farming and major increases in farm prices, have led to rapid growth and diversification in
agricultural production with the implementation of the system of family contracting production.
Production increased by 10 percent per year over the period 1980-85 compared with an average of 3
percent per year in the preceding 23 years. Grain output reached a record of 407 million tons in 1984,
34 percent greater than in 1987. In 1985, the Government began a new phase of reform, replacing
compulsory procurement quotas with voluntary contracts, adjusting procurement prices and greatly
enlarging the role of the market. All these measures have led to stimulate the development of rural
economy.



- 33 -                               Appendix B
5.    The Government's long-term objectives in the agricultural sector are (a) increase and diversify
the production of food, feed and industrial crops to meet requirements created by population and income
growth, and (b) to raise employment opportunities and income in rural areas. Given China's shortage
of arable land, emphasis must be placed on diversification increasing the productivity of existing cropped
areas and developing efficiently the remaining unutilized land. Steps are also being taken to increase
production and quality of grain, livestock, fruit, fish, and industrial crops, and to expand agroprocessing
activities so as to raise value-added in the rural sector.
6.    China's rural financial strategy has been to support the Government's efforts as outlined above.
So the Government of China has made great inputs in the rural sector through rural financial institutions,
and paid more attention to the introduction of foreign capital. A lot of rural projects has been introduced
from the World Bank of finance the agricultural development. The project, one of them, has been
disbursed through the rural financial intermediate.
7.    The project is the third of the four rural credit projects financed by the World Bank to ABC. The
First Rural Credit was completed in June 1988 ahead of schedule. The Second Rural Credit Project in
the provinces of Hunan and Fujian was completed in September 1991 ahead of schedule. The Fourth
Rural Credit Project is, approved by the Board of the World Bank, now underway. Now ABC is making
an application to the World Bank for a new project with a purpose to stimulate ABC's
commercialization. However, the new project, compared with the previous four rural credit projects, has
a great leap whether in form or in content.
B. Realization of Project Objective
8.    The main objectives of the Third Rural Credit Project would be to stimulate growth and
diversification of agriculture by expanding the availability of medium- and long-term credit of ABC (and
RCC), and to increase ABC's operational efficiency through institutional development. The project has
been mainly stretched in three provinces in Southwest China (Guizhou, Sichuan and Yunan) and three
provinces in the North Central Region (Anhui, Henan and Hubei).
9.    The project began to be prepared in 1987, to be appraised in September 1987. The agreement
was signed in February and became effective in June 1987. The withdrawals was to be completed on
June 1, 1994. With the assistance of the World Bank, the project had been implemented by ABC with
its careful organizing and hard work in six years and basically reached the designed objectives. The
implementation of the project was successful. The project is divided into five detailed categories as
follows:
(A)   Tree crops: to develop fruit, vegetables, rubber, shellac, tea, mulberry, coffee, gallant,
grape, medicine materials, Yangtao, etc. through the establishment of new sites and
rehabilitate the old planting sites (see table);
(B)    Aquaculture: mainly to utilize the current surface water of lakes and rivers, and to
establish and rehabilitate to grow fry and commercial fish (see table);
(C)   Poultry and livestock: mainly to grow pigs, chickens, ducks and cattle (see table);
(D)   Agroprocessing: newly-built and rehabilitated meat processing plants, meat and vegetable
facilities for cold storage, starch processing plant, leather, feed, cotton silk fiber, wood,
vegetable oil and food processing plants; and



- 34 -                              Appendix B
(E)   ABC's institution developed: through the technical assistance of the World Bank,
ABC's institution development has been promoted, and ABC had made a positive and
significant research on six targets such as credit policy, operational cost and level of
interest rates; and purchasing and rehabilitating some necessary modern office equipment;
588 courses of project appraisal, project management, financial accounting, auditing and
training have been held at home and abroad and a total number of 11,245 persons of
ABC's project managers and credit staff have been trained; a network of consultants
employed has been formed. Through the implementation of the project, the business
quality of ABC project managers and the project management level and the working
efficiency have improved to lay a foundation for the successful implementation and the
transformation of ABC into a commercial bank lately.
C. Project Design and Organization
10.   Project Design and Planning. According to the provisions specified in the Credit Agreement
and Project Agreement signed between the World Bank and the Government of China and ABC, the
project funds have been used in five categories of tree crops, aquaculture, poultry and livestock,
agroprocessing and ABC institutional development. During the selection of projects, the projects have
been conscientiously and carefully selected with the consideration of favoring the project units with a
strong technical force, strong capability of self-raising funds, conform to the State and provincial overall
development policies, achieve rational utilization of natural and manpower resources, make the most of
local conditions, bring local advantages in to full play, then, the needs of the markets in principle and
an overall plan of the project can be guaranteed. For example, Yunnan was, according to its local
geographic conditions, to develop the plantation of tropical plants such as rubber, shellac, coffee, but
Guizhou was to develop the plantation of gallant, sheep and cattle raising, due to its geographical features
characterized by many mountains. And, Sichuan was to use the advantages of big pig population to
greatly develop the meat processing projects, etc.
11.   The projects were to be wholly organized and coordinated, and to be carried out and implemented
by the six ABC project provincial branches. During the examination and approval of projects, the
provisions of the Credit Agreement and Project Agreement were strictly followed. A Project Leading
Group, which was formed at ABC HQ, has been chaired by a vice president, who is responsible for the
overall project planning and coordination. A rural credit project office (i.e. World Bank Loan Division),
under the International Department of ABC HQ, was set up to be responsible for liaison, coordination,
policy directions and day-to-day management of the project. Similar offices were set up in 310 ABC at
municipal level in 50 cities, each province for the actual execution. A project consultant committee was,
comprising experts hired from each society (such as livestock, aquaculture, township enterprise and
market) at each level of ABC, to be responsible for consultant on the project technical, economic,
financial and market issues.
12.   For the insurance of the normal implementation, ABC HQ has formulated more than 20 project
management regulations and measures, and each ABC provincial branch has, according to these
regulations and measures, laid down relevant enforcement regulations. All these formulations are timely,
effective, and to ensure the sound development of the project.



- 35 -                              Appendix B
D. Project Implementation
13.   In general, the implementation of actual subprojects is less than the appraisal estimate in terms
of physical scales. A total of 834 sub-branches was approved in the six project provinces, but estimated
number of subproject to be appraised would be about 1,200. The main reason is that the small-scale
projects of tree crops, aquaculture, etc., were reduced, and the relatively large processing projects in the
size and amount of the loan have been increased. The execution of projects were generally successful.
The progress of the execution was normal. Some provinces, such as Henan and Hubei, had basically
completed the implementation of the project.
14.   The completed date of the project was delayed for one year because of the cancellation of a
gallnut project in Guizhou and the devaluation of RMB rate. For the result of the project implementation,
the one-year delaying doesn't cause any damages, and no influence on the scheduled repayment on time.
15.   During the project implementation, RMB was devalued several times from an exchange rate of
RMB3.7 to US$1 at appraisal, to RMB4.7 to US$1 in 1989, to RMB5.7 to US$1 in 1991 and to RMB8.7
to US$1 at the time of completion (but little loan of RMB8.7 rate was actually used). During the same
period, the ratio of the USS to SDR totally maintained in the level of SDR1 to US$1.37 at negotiations.
The rate has been changed, but it always floated up or down at this level, the World Bank contribution
increased from RMB610 million at appraisal (negotiations) to RMB970 million, the ration increased by
10%. The total project investment went up from RMB1.22 billion at appraisal to RMB1.66 billion. All
these were leading to a substantial expansion physical scale of major component.
16.   At appraisal, the project was estimated the establishment or improvement of 16,700 ha of tea
orchards which at completion had decreased to 13,566 ha, down 19%; estimated 11,500 ha of pastures
for sheep and cattle; freshwater fish ponds, estimated at 3,000 ha at appraisal, completed 3,828 ha,
increased by 28%. The investment for agroprocessing increased from an estimated RMB851.42 million
at appraisal to RMB 1,024.56 million increased by 20%. The total investment for livestock increased
from RMB777.83 million to 917.57 million, up to 18%. The investment for aquaculture reduced from
RMB131.44 million to RMB117.64 million, down 10%. The investment for the tree crops project
reduced from RMB363.75 million to RMB351.33 million, down 3%.
17.   During implementation, substantial changes occurred in the distribution of investment among
components.
Appraisal Forecast        Actual Disbursement
(%)                        (%)
Tree crops                             23                          20
Aquaculture                             8                           7
Livestock                              14                          13
Agroprocessing                         55                          60
18.   Project adjustment, mainly including the adjustments of project content, project investment and
project scale.
19.   During the project implementation, more contents of the project had been adjusted in comparison
with the previous two rural credit projects. The reason was that during the implementation, the domestic
economic situation in China has been changed, and the rapid growth of the economic development was
relatively over, the Government, for fastening the steps of reforms and opening out to the outside world,



- 36 -                               Appendix B
has put forward a series of economic adjustment policies, such as tax policies, price reform policies,
funds adjustment and controlling, the changes in the market, and a large devaluation of RMB to US$;
and for the longer implementation period, the conditions of some projects have been changed during the
project implementation; and some issues have occurred in ABC's implementation of the project, like the
gallnut project in Guizhou, those changes lead to a large-scale project adjustment. The project adjustment
is reflected on three sides, (1) increasing investment, (2) reducing investment, and (3) canceling project.
For example, in Yunnan Province, 21 subprojects had been canceled, the total investment of the project
canceled, the total investment of the project canceled was RMB33.373 million, of which, 20 projects of
tree crops were canceled, and adjustment investment was RMB31.423 million, and one processing project
with an investment of RMBI.95 million; the adjusted project investment reach to 11.85 million. The
pollution problems and the price-rising of raw materials are successfully addressed: 3,879 mu of tree
crops were adjusted. The adjustment is also technically needed as some of the technical standards was
not reached during some project implementation.
20.   The main reason for the changes in the project investment were that the working capital of the
project was not included in the total investment, the implementation of most projects just catch the peak
period of price-rising of building materials, the investment costs were rising up; some appraisals were
not correct and the estimation of the investment was insufficient.
21.   The reasons for the changes in the project scope were mainly the technical demand was not met
during the implementation of some tree crops, and its scale had been adjusted; the price was rising during
the construction and the project didn't have enough funds, so the adjustment of the project was made by
project unit itself; some substitute goods of the project were growing up, and the whole construction of
the proposed project was affected (such as shellac); some particular project was affected by the weakened
market for the time being, and not likely to be completed as the proposed scope was required.
22.    During the implementation, ABC adjusted the content, investment, and scale of the project on
time according to the actual situations and market changes. The result of the adjustment shows that the
adjustments during the project implementation is necessary, and a rich experience was gained.
E. Project Results
23.   From the implementation of the projects in the past few years, most projects were implemented
well, the projects had made a significant contribution to the local poverty alleviation and raising
employment opportunities with a better economic, financial and social benefit.
24.   The tree crops component, accounting from 20.32% of the total investment, most subprojects
have reached a initial scope and desired targets. So far, many kinds of fruits and economic forestry have
grown to realize over one billion Yuan of output value (see table). With the coming of the loan maturity,
the output value would be very considerable. According to the actual calculations, the FRR of the tree
crops is relatively high.
25.   The aquaculture component was mainly the freshwater fisheries. The period of the project was
not so long. For the increased output and a good market, all the fish components have been very
successful. The aquaculture component was the best in all sectors of the project, reflecting on the largest
ratio of benefit and cost, the shortest recovery period of investment, the lowest risks of the project.
26.   The livestock and poultry component mainly support the large-scale units of chicken, cattle,
sheep, pig and rabbit. With the establishment of all kinds of deep meat processing enterprises and a



- 37 -                               Appendix B
strong demand for meat, the market of livestock and poultry would be good. The implementation of the
livestock and poultry component would make rich foods for the urban residents, and to solve the
Vegetable Basket demands and play a positive role stabilizing in price. The project supported a
production of 2 million, egg and chicken with the effective social benefits is remarkable. The cost such
as feeds was raised, the benefit of the project was lower than at appraisal. The FRR and ERR of the
project reached 31% and 20 % respectively.
27.   The agroprocessing component accounts for 60.29 % with a large portion in the investment of the
whole project. 90% of the project units were township and village enterprises. In general, the
implementation of the project is successful. The agroprocessing projects had played a great role in the
effective transformation of local agricultural products, the adjustment of rural industrial structures, the
diversification of ownership in rural economy. In the agroprocessing sector, the demand of using
resources, and market promotion was basically met. By the end of 1993, the total output value of the
agroprocessing reached RMB4.4 billion, accounting for 63%  of the total output value.  The
implementation of agroprocessing was more complex than tree crops, aquaculture and livestock. The
project may be affected by market, technology and management. Now the benefits of meat processing
and silk fiber were not as good as at appraisal. The reason was the influence of price and market, along
with the old technology and facilities in some processing project which, in turn, affected the quality of
products, failed to penetrate in the market, because the changing demand of market, the rehabilitation and
improvement of technology are very fast, but as a whole the feasibility of high benefits of the project is
also very great.
28.   According to the current market, the best benefit of the sectors supported by the project is
aquaculture, next is agroprocessing, livestock and tree crops.
29.   The technical assistance component (Part B) was SDR1.45 million, accounting for a little more
than I % of the total investment. It was mainly used in the purchasing of modern office equipment, staff
training at home and abroad, investigation and hiring of consultants. Generally, the project was
successfully implemented. With the smallest part of the funds, but the influence of the project was great.
Through the implementation, ABC educated a lot of managers, who would play an important part in
ABC's institutional development in the financial sector reform.
30.   The implementation of RCIII also gave birth to the RCC's involvement in the World Bank's
project. In the previous two rural credit projects, all the loans had been channeled through ABC without
RCC participating. Generally, the implementation of the RCC project was satisfactory, but the quality
of RCC staff is not as satisfactory as ABC's, so there is some difficulty for RCC to manage the project
to the full satisfactory.
31.   ABC has taken maturity management to the project in the aspect of clarifying grace period and
determining a clear period of repayment based on the cash flow of the project. The period of the project
is generally three to five years, at least not acceding eight years. The rate of interest of the loan would
be determined according to the rate of interest specified by the People's Bank of China (PBC), and also
adjust the rate when PBC does.
32.   The overdue loan could be found in each project province. Generally, the overdue rate of the
whole project was not so high.
33.   Management of the recovered funds for relending. According to the project lending contract and
receipt, a lot of projects have been entered into the period of repayment of the principal, the project has



- 38 -                                Appendix B
the recovered funds for other uses. ABC's management on the project recovered funds for lending
would be carried out in accordance with the management of the World Bank loan.
F. Sustainability
34.   From the present supervision of the project, the product market of most of the subproject were
wide and sustaining with a good future. Considering crops as an example, 70% were tree crops, with
a shortage of long growth period and slow effectiveness, but meanwhile, we could see the advantages of
the stable growth and longer beneficial time of crops; under the lower impression on the future product
market on the crops, the crops project would play a more important role in the future development, for
the agricultural supplements are limited, the demand is growing gradually, the trend of price is upward
and the market risk faced by the project was not large. It should be also noted that the sustaining support
from banks was needed because of its long growth period and lower effectiveness, large input of funds
needed, insufficient working capital generally existed, limited resources of other funds; the rapid
development of the supporting processing industry was also needed.
35.   The processing component was mainly supporting the agricultural products and byproducts, the
resources of raw materials were relatively stable and reliable as the processing industry of green plants,
the future produce market was good, the future development was wide, good economic and social benefits
could be achieved. But the future of the processing project was not always bright, a lot of projects with
lower technical content, lower starting point, lower value-added of products, technical transformation
urgently to be made, some project had already entered into a period of full production, the scale of the
old project and product structure could not meet the needs for development, the expansion of the scale
urgently needed, to make a deep processing to the products, such as leather sector, develop from the past
production of finished leather to the production of leather products, more inputs of funds were needed
to ensure the expansion of project scale and the replacement of products.
36.   The aquaculture component could become effective fast in general, and the project benefits
relatively higher. It could play a great role in the future for a rather long period of time. The project
was largely effected by natural disasters (floods) and the control measures were not enough.
37.   The future of livestock component seems quite excellent, especially the production of pig, cattle
and sheep. With the increase of living standard of Chinese people and the changes of food structure, the
demand of meats would be doubly increased and the price would be upwards. The current issue faced
was the rising of feed price and the increasing of labor cost, increasing of production efficiency and
improvement of breeds was urgently to be made.
38.   With the implementation of the project, the quality of ABC staff were quite good. The quality
and efficiency of ABC staff were furthermore increased through the training and equipment provided by
the Part B lending of the project. But with the gradual development and expansion of the project, the
project management of later stage was put in front of ABC staff as an important task. A new task is how
to reach the quality and level required by a commercial bank, to operate and manage the project with the
actions of a commercial bank. So the training courses should be further made to the ABC project
managers, especially the project management of latter stage, such as the training on project operation and
management, market analysis and forecast, information collection and treatment.
39.   The future risk of the project comes from the operation and management of the person responsible
for the project and the quality of the whole enterprises, the introduction of specialists of the enterprise



- 39 -                              Appendix B
and the fully play of their capabilities, sensitivity to the market changes and the suitable capability, the
improvement of products and expansion of production scale, etc.
G. Project Impact
40.   The project mainly concentrated on the undeveloped south middle part and poorer west part of
China. The implementation of the project had made a great change to local economic and social aspects
in project area, 170,000 households got a direct benefit from the project implementation, the local natural
and human resources had been fully utilized, the employment opportunities created (only in Yunnan,
138,700 full-time jobs were created, 163,300 full-time jobs would be created during the estimated full
period), to make a great significant contribution to the poverty alleviation.
41.   While introducing the World Bank loans, advanced technologies and processing skills were
introduced not only to ensure the high starting point and high efficiency of the project construction, but
also to make a role of demonstration and radiation to local sectors, a new wave occurred in crops
(planting) and aquaculture project, the agroprocessing played a model role on scientific management and
standards of the same trade or occupation.
42.   Intelligence investment increased, all kinds and levels of skill training developed, putting forward
the activities of learning technologies of project units and individuals, a lot of technical key members
appeared, all these to make a contribution to the development of rural market economy.
43.   The input of the project increased the social products, effectively related the conflict between
supply and demand of the partial market commodities, increased the country's tax resources and incomes
of exchanges.
44.   Through the Part B lending of the World Bank, ABC managers mastered the acknowledge of
project appraisal, management, supervision and evaluation, actual operational measures and financial
management, which were used in the management of ABC domestic lending and plays a promotion role
on the transforming into a commercial bank.
H. Execution of Laws and Documentation
45.   ABC had strictly acted in accordance with all the terms of the documents in the strict sense.
46.   According to the Credit Agreement and Project Agreement between the Government of China,
ABC and the World Bank, the loan rate of the project loan would be executed with the domestic loan rate
of the same kind at the same level. In the execution, ABC didn't make any problem on the interest
rates.
47.   According to the provisions of documents, ABC makes a review and approval of projects due to
the amount at different level, the amount of the loan above US$3 million shall be reviewed and approved
by the World Bank; the amount between RMB8 million and US$2 million by ABC HQ; the amount below
RMB8 million by ABC project provincial branch. From the execution of the project, except for the
gallnut project in Guizhou, any issue has not been occurred even now.
48.   Project Procurement. Before 1990, for the reason of different understand, etc., the project units
and ABC project provincial branches kept away from "Limited international bidding" purposely or
accidentally, mostly adopting the procuring methods of comparing three suppliers before purchasing, a



- 40 -                               Appendix B
lot of issues appeared during the project procurement. In April 1991, ABC HQ held a special meeting
to pay more attention again to the project procurement and the procurement management measures had
been re-edited. Special professional training courses on procurements had been held three times. Since
then, the project procurement began to be put on the right track.
1. World Bank's Performance
49.   The project, which had got succeeded, cannot be separated from the positive performance of the
World Bank in the implementation, the World Bank's management on the project was effective and
positive and helpful to the ABC and project units.
50.   The World Bank's supervision mission came to China each time, except for the overall
discussion held in Beijing with ABC HQ, and making a field supervision to the project site, reviewing
the project contracts and files, making a selective check of the receipt and contract of the project,
inspecting the implementation of the processing and the agricultural component of the project and the
environment protection. After each supervision, they exchanged views with officials from local ABC and
project units, and they provided a comprehensive memorandum to ABC lately.
51.   The World Bank had also employed market research experts, project supervision specialists,
project procurement experts and project financial disbursement officers to hold short-time training courses
for the ABC project managers to provide new methods and ideas for ABC persons. These courses had
played an important role to increase the quality of the ABC project managers. These training courses
were welcomed at each level of ABC.
J. ABC's Performance
52.   ABC is the organizer and executor of the project. During the implementation of the project, ABC
had made a great deal of efforts and once again had been proved to be competent and its effect also. The
high quality of ABC staff and their correct attitudes towards working had been proved in the past few
years.
53.   ABC has set up a project consultant committee.  For the consulting on financial affairs,
technology and market. An improved effect had been made in the implementation. The staff quality and
allocation of professional specialists were needed to be increased.
54.   ABC also has made its own separate field supervision on the project two to three times a year
to solve the problems discovered in the implementation and ensure the smooth execution of the project
effectively while taking concerted action with the project supervision of the World Bank.
55.   Another thing needed to be mentioned was that after the procurement issue of the World Bank
lending appeared, ABC had actively taken concerted action with the World Bank to readjust the
procurement guideline of the project in 1991, which had been accepted by the World Bank, and
effectively ensure the efficient implementation of the procurement in the latter stage of the project.
56.   The performance of ABC has been excellent on the coordination with the supervision missions
of the World Bank, which were really recorded in the End of Mission's Supervision of the World Bank.
57.   At present, ABC is facing a challenge of transforming from a state specialized bank into a state-
owned commercial bank.  For ABC has experienced a cooperation with the World Bank, Asia



- 41 -                               Appendix B
Development Bank and foreign commercial banks for a long time, so the period of transforming would
not be so long. Right now, ABC is making an application for a new World Bank loan, one of the
objectives is to help the progress of commercialization.
K. Experience and Lessons
58.   Project Orientation. In the previous three rural credit projects, the project was mainly focused
on crops planting, aquaculture and agroprocessing, with a lower starting point, lower technical content
and a long recovery period, for the limitation of sectors, the selective leeway (space) was too small, all
these bring more unfavorable influence on the project quality, seriously restricted the effective loan
recovery and ABC's conscious activities on the management of the project. In the forthcoming Fifth
Rural Credit Project, we'll do our best to improve the problem areas.
59.   Project Scale. In general, the loan size of the Third Rural Credit Project is relatively small, with
more components overstretched in many areas, all these brought a hard difficulty to the management,
meanwhile, the over small projects also effected the effective execution and the project procurement.
60.   Project Procurement. The required amount for procurement specified in Credit Agreement and
Project Agreement is very low, giving too much preferences to international bidding.
61.   For there is no working capital allowed to, except the initial working capital, be allocated to the
project, ;soon most of the projects get into difficulties of lack of working capital after entering into
production, affecting the production and normal implementation of the project. So recommendations are:
the management on the working capital should be flexible in the latter implementation period to ensure
the desired achievement of the project benefits.
62.   Product Marketing and Market Research and Development. Because of most of the subprojects
scattered in the areas where the economy is less developed and far from developed markets, the lower
quality of the project unit, insufficient information on products and lack of market concept, which are
leading to an unready market of a lot of projects (especially agroprocessing projects) and heavily affecting
the existing and development of the project.
63.   The adjustment of the project at the mid-term is very necessary. The World Bank should
guarantee more flexibility to the borrower (ABC) to adjust the content and scale of the project so as to
realize the objectives of the project faster, better and more correctly in accordance with the borrower's
industrial policies and market changes.
64.   Training and Management of the Project.  The advanced management experience and
methodologies of the World Bank loans have been used to train a lot of more excellent managers for
ABC. For a long time, the World Bank kept silent in approving new project, so many experienced
managers left the World Bank loan management positions, and some new-hands were replaced to continue
the project management works, as the newcomers are not rich in World Bank loan management
experience, so their weak managerial skills affected the implementation of the project. So the training
of the project managers should be strengthened to ensure the smooth execution of the project.












IBRD 20243
M0O4GOLIA                .      l;mg_DEM PEOPLES                                              C H0 1 N  Aa
r REP OF raREA
'- '           'REP                                   THO IRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
h  Sh,,d,          KOREA                                            PROJECT  PROVINCES:
Gxxdb=  -=n,u                         JAPAN                                 GUIZHOU, SICHUAN, YUNNAN
PROPOSED SUBPROJECTS
SxChx         H.g                                                            Tree Crops                         Roads
J _g,                                          _          Livestock                          Railroads
.0') -\\  Hon  FuAquaculiure                                                           Rivers
A      Agro-Processing                    Prefecture Boundaries
, xx i,                                                                                                -- .   - -HONG KONG U K  Province Boundaries
: j o-,jVET NAH -   CAO,PORT                   34=                                                              Internotional Boundaries                     34-
-'< LAC  )                                          _4 --        -*~ 
THI                                        PHILIPPINES            1                                                     0    50    100   150   200
s                                ~ !,ItHAIAtI                    N                                           N U
., ~~~o'   QINGHAI " 
*            1.xM                                                                                          /GLu.ngyuEn
S      --~ ~ ~~okax5                                                         - --
XIZA       NC,                                                                                               kanchang_                    a, Wanxian
II                   S            /           C        -       (  AilJsuAnxnq A   *-NR                                                       0 
-   - -KxngdIxg                                                    A                             Lh
-30'                          'K-gd,.9                                                                                                    30'~~r'  /HUB
.Qx  \                                                         ;xxn~  At'han  5XA ',eii9               '       AFuhg Fuling
_; iigoA       6                   Y    o       ngehu cn . 0tChong QIng       A
A~~~
*   ZhongdioCl               X h   o       Zaolu;/}    z         -~       *'    _)  Zuy,d"                           Togre*t         >
>   rZhaotonga ~~~~~~~~~~~~,~~~ile                  }; ~~~~~ZilexyuAx 
I 0B,1,xxg          |1I''        \   Duliou   ,j                tv                        ty                           AOiy  ;wKI
-26x                                                    ',..Doxngchixii0 -                                   Anshun          Duyun0
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                         )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
41/                        . bXia Oxen                                Guig\?                
g  vsuoshon>                            ' Zho,,ud,a,,Q.  hmgOt                                                           T',,,
*    J~~               -                    ChuAxng ,xxn                                 'N                               -
1A         A-    *-                                                           .........  X-;'I ,sr jAJ~
;   Luli                 *'t-  U   N                            N =A                    :8
A__>  A7A    -                                 bY-  Z                                                                 GUANGXI
.,---Jvig5ht  P-  -                                                                                   Ze,
< * Geilu 'o . o~~~~~~~~~~Wenshog xen5 .  w  re
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O I                                                              'Duy  '
22'                          )  i        ,          (DongRh,,-<                                                                                                    22h-
lo00h-                                              1 04x0
L  |  r    -                                  |                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JULY 1987



I
c



7 ----  f~~~~~_zzrXP>xSs   }     1l2-             Chngzm  )n~~~~~~~~~~~ 1 ~HEBEI  (       -                           8                   CHINA                 IR22
*   sr  i   1                       ~~~~~~ (Xz-~~~  O~~-'<X_               S A ~~~~THIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I 9~~e 9_~~ lzc&> z -3t- 9 SHA NXI r x nyong 9 ~~~~~~~~ANHUI, HENAN, HUBEi
_ -+ .: ) , ,_ j > X 7 g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSED SUBPROJECTS
/ r_.ixnxlwng l \> 5 ~~~HAND O NG                                                                  .Agro-Proc-msig
_    <m    -=    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pef.cture Boundar,e,
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   Al                                                                                                   Wemt,. Boundar-msfEe4;oX  =  <s
SH    A    X -A v,/'                                                                     --     =      ,-                       
q                     HUNANA-                                                                                                                            I A N G N  U    w^-. -.
t ~ ~~           -   -                                                       ,X                                            Ch _0  Zh  OCvgh    .      6      * \12









IMAGING
Report No.        1L4453
Typ:e: ICR



