Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C /f'7-C7 H
Report No. 6903-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
THIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
December 28, 1987
Agricultural Operations Division
China Department
Asia Region
This document has a restdcted ditribution and may be used by redients ony in the performance of
their ofiil duo  Its contents may not othevise be dicosed wout World Bank authodzaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Yuan (Y) 1.00     =  US$ 0.27
Y 3.7             =  US$ 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
i meter (m)      = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km) - 0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)   - 2.47 acres
= 15 mu
1 kilogram (kg)    2.2 pounds (lb)
- 2 jin
1 ton (t)        = 1,000 kg
= 2205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ABC     -  Agricultural Bank of China
ATM     -  Agricultural Trade Market
BOC     -  Bank of China
CIB     -  China Investment Bank
FCMD    -  Foreign Capital Management Division (of ABC)
MAAF    -  Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries
MOF     -  Ministry of Finance
PBC     -  People's Bank of China
PMC     -  Project Management Committee
PO      -  Project Office
PU      -  Project Unit
SMCs    -  Supply and Marketing Cooperatives
RCCs    -  Rural Credit Cooperatives



- i -                   FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
THIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project ....... 000.000..,..        0000000000       v
I0  BACRGROUND ..O.O.O...............OOOOOOO.......O...O.....OOO..O..  1
The Agricultural Sectoro........... eeoo............ 00000       1
Sectoral Objectives and Bank Group Operations............       2
Project 4....................... 0       0.                     4
II.   AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA ................ *******00000000      5
Reform of the Banking System.............................        5
ABC Organization, Staffing and Training..................        6
ABC Operations ........... 0*0*****e.....................*0      7
ABC and RCCs                    ...ooooeo                       9
Accounting Systems and Auditing.........................O      10
III.   THE PROJECT PROVINCES ....................................      1l
General .OOOoO.o00000000000000000000000000 *000                11
Southwest Provinces ..........oo ........ e .oooooo..oooo.      11
North Central Provinces 00e000000000  ....................      12
Agricultural Support Services........................,..        12
ABC Organization and Operations..........................       14
Objectives and Scope..................... e                     16
Project Features.000000000 ...00 00****     ,******,*.0*00..*   16
This report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission and an
appraisal mission which visited China during November 1986 and April 1987
respectively. The preappraisal mission comprised Messrs. R. Deshpande,
J.Doolette, J. Brown, A. Ody, A. Piazza, Bi Ming-Jian, Ms. P. Harrell (IDA),
Messrs R. Harrison and J. Blencowe (Consultants). The appraisal mission
comprised Messrs. R. Deshpande, A. Piazza, Bi Ming-Jian (IDA), R. Van Wagenen,
C. Cronberg, R. Thomas, S. T. Koh and R. Nathaniel (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WorId Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
Tree Crops    ........ *. .                                       16
Livestock....0....  .....  ....o0 * .......                      18
Aquaculture. . ......... ......... .. ... ......... .. . ,       20
Agro-processing                                                  20
Pilot Program for RCCs o0....o ..................0.....          , 22
Technical Assistance........ .,.*.......o......... ,. ,..        22
Cost Estimates and Financingo...........................,        23
Procurement     .e...................... *@go00*00o  o*0 00**,*  24
Disbursement          ......... ..,                              26
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATIONP............. o......ooo..........         28
Project Organization ...........................  , .... ..     28
Subproject Im      plementation                                  31
Onlending Terms and Conditionse..........................         31
Accounts and                           Adt 33
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting..o......o.......o...         33
Enviromental Effects                                             34
VI.   MARKETS AND PRICES..,..*E..*....                                  35
Market Prospects .....                                           35
Prices...... ...................... .... ............ .... *..   36
VII.   BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS.................IS K .S.        39
Production Benefi.i............ ........................          39
Employment and   I      n     c     o     m      e     s         39
Financial and Economic Analysisa l y si..so...............s.     39
Subproject Cash    Flows                                         40
Risks...... .................       ~        0.00...,... 000     41
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION...................          42
TABLES IN THE TEXT
4.1   Project Cost Summary
4.2   Procurement Arrangements
6.1   Current and Projected Consumption and Trade Status
7.1   Summary of Rate of Return Analysis



- iii-
ANNES
1. Table 1S Consolidated Balance Sheet of the Agricultural Barnk of
China, 1984, 1985 and 1986.
Table 2: Consolidated Income Statement of the Agricultural Bank of
China, 1984, 1985 and 1986.
2. Table 1: Consolidated Balance Sheet of Rural Credit Cooperatives,
1979, 1982, and 1985
3. Table 1: Basic Data on Project Provinces i:'* the Southwest Region -
Cuixhou, Sichuan, and Yunnan
Table 2s Basic data on Project Provinces in the North Central
Region - Anhui, Henan, and Hubei
4. Table 1: ABC Organization in the six Project Provinces
Table 2s Balance Sheet of the Agricultural Bank of China for the
six Project Provincest 1985 and 1986
Table 3: Income Statement of the Agricultural Bank of China for the
six Project Provinces, 1985 and 1986
5. Indicative Investment Program for the Project
6. Rehabilitation of Tea in Yunnan Province: Technical Guidelines for
Subproject Implementation
7. Review of Gallnut Production in Cuizhou: Terms of Reference
8. Review of Pasture Development and Sheep Breeding Program in
Guishous Terms of Reference
9. Pilot Project for On-lending through RCCs: Criteria for RCC access
to project funds and on-lending terms
10. Project-assisted Staff Training Program
Table 1: Training of project-related staff
Table 2s ABC's Training Institutions
Table 3s Training in ABC proposed for project support
Table 4: Foreign Exchange Component of ABC Training
11. ABC In-house Studies in Systems Improvement: Terms of Reference
12. Estimated Disbursement Schedule
13. Table 13 Economic Prices for Traded Goods, 1987 and 2000
Table 2: Selected Conversion Factors for Inputs



- iv -
14. Financial and Economic Rates of Return:
Table 1: Rubber Replanting
Table 2: Litchi
Table 3: Tea Rehabilitation
Table 4: Lean Meat Pig
Table 5: Pasture Development
Table 6: Fish pond Development
Table 7: Cannery
Table 8: Vegetable Oil Processing
Table 9: Sensitivity Analysis
15. Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CHARTS
Chart 1: ABC Head Office Organization
Chart 2: Implementation Schedule
Chart 3: Organization for Project Implementation
MR2S
IBRD 20243
IBRD 2S0244



CBI A
CHINA
THIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          People's Republic of China
Beneficiaryt       Agricultural Bank of China (ABC)
Credit Amount:     SDR 123.8 million (US$170 million equivalent)
Credit Terms:      Standard, with 35 years maturity
Relending Terms:   From Government to ABC: 20 years, including five years of
grace, with interest at 4.5Z and commitment fee of 0.5Z
p.a.
From ABC to subborrowers: Interest at ABC's prevailing
rates currently ranging between 7.21 and 10.81 p.a.
Exchange risk to be borne by the Government, except that in
cases where subloans are disbursed in foreign currencies,
ABC would pass on the exchange risk to subborrowers. ABC
would bear the exchange risk on foreign exchange used for
staff training program.
Project Objectives
and description: The main objectives of the proposed project would be to (a)
stimulate growth and diversification of agriculture by
expanding availability of medium-and long-term credit, and
(b) increase ABC's operational efficiency through
institutional development. ABC would use project funds to
provide subloans to households, cooperatives, collective
enterprises, state-owned enterprises and state-collective
partnerships for investments in tree crops, livestock,
aquaculture, and agro-processing. ABC lending would be in
six of China's poorer provinces: Guizhou, Sichuan and
Yunnan in the southwest and Anhui, Henan and Hubei in north
central region. The project's technical assistance for
institutional development would be used to strengthen ABC's
in-house staff training capability, and o conduct studies
of ABC and RCC operations. The project would also include a
pilot program to introduce rural credit cooperatives (RCCs)
to longer term lending. The focus of the institutional
development program is to assist in Government's effort to
reshape ABC's role consistent with the ongoing reform of
the financial system. At full development, the value of the



- vi -
project's incremental output would be about US$245 million
per annum. The project would improve living standards and
income levels for 150,000 households and generate
additional employment equivalent to 326t000 full-time jobs.
No major risks are anticipated.
Estimated costs:
Local     Foreign   Total
---- (US $ million) -----
Tree crops                     103.4         11.5    114.9
Livestock                       44.4         11.0     55.4
Aquaculture                     30.8          2.7     33.5
Agroprocessing                  79.4         52.8    132.2
Technical Assistance             2.5          1.5       4.0
Total Project Cost             260.5         79.5    340.0
Financing Plan:
IDA                             90.5         79.5    170.0
ABC                             69.2          0.0      69.2 /a
Subborrovers                   100.8          0.0    100.8
Total                       260.5         79.5    340.0
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY      1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
Annual            14.0    16.0    40.0    50.0    40.0    10.0
Cumulative       14.0    30.0    70.0   120.0   160.0   170.0
Economic Rate of Return:  242
/a   About US$8 million of IDA credit equivalent is expected to be onlent by
ABC to selected RCCs, in which case participating RCCs would contribute
about US$3 million equivalent to the project costt correspondingly
reducing ABC's contribution.



CHINA
THIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.1       The Government of China has requested an IDA Credit of SDR 123.8
million (US$170 million equivalent) to finance a Third Rural Credit Project.
The proposed project would expand the availability of credit in six of China's
poorer provinces as a means to stimulate growth and diversification of
agriculture. Project funds would be channeled through the Agricultural Bank
of China (ABC) in the form of medium- and long-term loans to farm households
and enterprises for the development of tree crops, livestock, aquaculture and
agro-processing. The project would provide technical assistance to strengthen
ABC's in-house training capability, to develop a pilot project in medium-term
lending for selected rural credit cooperatives (RCCs), and to help improve
ABC's operational systems and procedures in line with current banking system
reforms.
The Agriculture Sector
1.2       Agriculture in China, including crops, livestock, forestry and
fisheries, provides sustenance to over one billion people, is a major source
of income for some 190 million farm families, and accounts for about 35% of
the country's GDP. Only about 137 million of China's 960 million ha are
arable. Farming systems are intensive, with large inputs of labor, chemical
and organic fertilizers and water. Nearly half of the arable land is
irrigated. Food grains occupy about 70% of the crop land and account for
about one-third of total agricultural output. This intensive system of food
production has allowed China to meet the basic food requirements of its
population (about 22% of the world's total) from less than 8% of the world's
arable land.
1.3       Major revisions in farm policies since 1979, most importantly, a
shift from communal to family farming and major increases in farm prices, have
led to rapid growth and diversification in agricultural production. The
system of contracting production to small-scale family farms, within the
framework of collective or state ownership of land and major fixed assets, has
given farmers more flexibility in determining what crops to grow, how much to
produce and where to market their output. Results have been dramatic:
production increased by 10% per year over the period 1980-85 compared with an
average of 3% per year in the preceding 23 years. Grain output reached a
record 407 million tons in 1984, 34% greater than in 1978, despite a reduction
in the area sown with grains.
1.4       In 1985, the Government began a new phase of reform, replacing
compulsory procurement quotas with voluntary contractsp adjusting procurement



- 2 -
prices and greatly enlarging the role of the market. These measures
contributed to a decline in grain and cotton output and hectarage as farmers
increasingly shifted production into livestock and industrial crops. As the
current reforms are extended, a challenge to China's agriculture will be to
maintain an adequate growth rate while accommodating the continued shift in
consumption patterns in response to increasing per capita incomes and
population growth. Chinese planners project a rapid increase in the demand
for fruits, vegetables, meat, poultry, fish, and dairy products with a
corresponding decrease in the share of direct grain consumption.
Sectoral Objectives and Bank Group Operations
1.5       The Government's long-term objectives in the agricultural sector are
(1) to increase and diversify the production of food, feed and industrial
crops to meet requirements created by population and income growth, and (2) to
raise employment opportunities and incomes in rural areas. Given China's
shortage of arable land (0.1 ha per capita), emphasis must be placed on
increasing the productivity of existing cropped areas and developing
efficiently the remaining unutilized land. Steps are also being taken to
increase production and quality of grain, livestock, fruit, fish, and
industrial crops, and to expand agro-processing activities so as to raise
value-added in the rural sector.  Although maintaining the balance between
producer and consumer interests and phasing out budgetary subsidies requires a
gradual approach, the Government intends to strengthen the rural reforms by
(a) fully implementing the system of contractual procurement and enlarging the
role of private trade; (b) adjusting contract producer prices to achieve a
desired production balance among grain, cash crops, and other agricultural
products; and (c) promoting the growth of rural agro-processing, transport and
commerce under multiple forms of ownership and management.
1.6       The Bank's strategy for lending in China's agriculture sector has
been to support the Government's efforts as outlined above. Lending to date
has included two land development projects (North China Plain [Cr. 1261-CHA),
Heilongjiang Land Reclamation (Ln. 2261-CHA/Cr. 1347-CHA]), five projects for
upgrading agricultural support services (Agricultural Training and Research
[Cr. 1297-CHA], the Second Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 1516-CHA], Rural
Credit I (Cr. 1462-CHA] and II (Cr. 1642-CHA], and the Seeds Project [Cr.
1577-CHAI), and three projects to strengthen specialized product subsectors
(the Rubber Development Project (Cr. 1417-CHA, SP-5-CHA], the Forestry
Development Project (Cr. 1605-CHA], and the Freshwater Fisheries Project [Cr.
1689-CHA]). Recent projects (the Pishihang-Chaohu Area Development Project
[Ln. 2579/Cr. 1606-CHA], the Red Soils Area Development Project (Cr. 1733-
CHA], the Xinjiang Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 1764-CHAj and the
Cansu Provincial Development Project [Ln. 2812/Cr.1793-CHAJ ) have focussed on
area development. The area development approach generally targets difficult
agro-technical development problems and combines in a single project,
assistance to crop and livestock development and the strengthening of various
support services. It is suited to most areas of China where much of the
infrastructure already exists but further improvements are needed to increase
productivity and farm incomes. The lending program will continue to support
projects in subsectors which are large and diverse--e.g., livestock, agro-
processing-or in subsectors which support the development of household-based



- 3 -
farming and rural industries--e.g., rural credit. Implementation of ongoing
Bank Group financed projects in the agriculture sector is on schedule.
Notable features of all the projects are the high standard of management at
the central, provincial and county levels and the enthusiastic participation
of households and collectives.
1.7       Experience with IDA Lending through ABC.  The First and Second Rural
Credit Projects are supplementing ABC's resources for medium- and long-term
lending to farm households and enterprises for investments in Livestock,
aquaculture, tree crops and agro-processing in the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomas
Region (Rural Credit I) and Fujian and Hunan Provinces (Rural Credit II).`
Both projects include a technical assistance component designed primarily to
strengthen ABC's subproject appraisal capabilities. Total project costs for
a.ural Credit I were estimated at about US$142 million, of which IDA financed
$50 million (352), ABC $30 million (21%), the Government $20 million (14%) and
subborrowers $42 million (30%). Implementation of the project, which is
scheduled to be completed by the end of June 1988, is proceeding well and
project lending is ahead of schedule. As of September 30, 1987, the credit
disbursements amounted to US$38 million, exceeding the appraisal estimate of
about US$26 million. Rural Credit II, which has a completion date of June,
1991, is providing funds for investment estimated at US$25i million, with IDA
financing amounting to US$90 million (35%), ABC financing US$90 million (35%)
and subborowers financing US$77 million(30%). Good progress is being made in
project implementation; and credit disbursements as oi September 30, 1987
amounted to US$33.5 million, compared to the appraisal estimate of
US$10 million. Subprojects financed by Rural Credit I include mainly those for
development of citrus, fish ponds and feed mills. In Rural Credit II,
subprojects approved so far relate to development of orchards for citrus and
other fruits, inland and coastal fisheries, and poultry. The two Rural Credit
projects are also making a favorable impact on improving savings mobilization
at the branches involved in project implementation because of increase in
farmer incomes and farmers' improved access to banking services offered by
ABC.
1.8       In the course of the first two credit projects, considerable
progress has been made in strengthening project appraisal work in Guangxi,
Fujian and Hunan. This has been accomplished in large part through issuance
of a Project Appraisal Manual, prepared by ABC with IDA assistance, which
outlines standard techniques of financial and economic analysis. The Manual
is now used by the project staff of the three provinces in subproject
appraisal. It is also being used by ABC's Senior Staff colleges in courses on
investment analysis (para. 4.21).
1/   A similar type of project assisted by an International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD) loan of $25 million, is being implemented
by ABC in Hubei province. The project is expected to be completed by June
1988.



-4-
Project Rational,
1.9       The proposed project would continue Bank Group support to ABC for
modernization and diversification of agriculture, in line with Government
objectives in the sector (paras. 1.5 and 1.6). The Bank Group involvement in
the project would also assist in the Government's reform efforts in the
financial sector, an area which the Bank Group and the Government recently
reviewed to assess the evolving processes of mobilization, intermediation and
allocation of in estment resources, and the interrelationships of the various
policy reforms. -  Future reform measures would focus on the development of
financial institutions which would be increasingly responsible for
mobilization of financial savings and channeling of those savings to efficient
investments. To achieve this latter objective, :he financial institutions are
expected to become more autonomous and responsible for their own profit and
losses. Against this background, the proposed project would contribute to the
ongoing process of reshaping the role of the rural banking system in line with
the chianging financial sector environment.
1.10      ABC and its affiliated rural credit cooperatives (RCCs) are the main
rural financial institutions responsible for deposit mobilization and
provision of credit. ABC and RCC loans to date have been mainly short term,
working capital loans. Changes in rural institutions since 1979--namely, the
shift from communal to small-scale, household farming--have led to accelerated
growth of farm output, higher per capita rural incomes and savings, and
increased demand for institutional credit, including longer term loans for
development of rural enterprises. Given the recent change in the Government
approach to enterprise financing, which requires enterprises to finance
capital investments from loans rather than budgetary grants, ABC and RCCs are
in the process of taking on the additional function of development banking.
For ABC and RCCs to become effective in their role as development bankers,
they will need to increase resources Mnd expand the range of services,
including provision of medium- and longwr term credit, and upgrade staff
skills particularly in techniques of investment analysis.
1.11      The Rural Credit I and II Projects are addressing these needs within
the context of ABC's operations in Guangxi, Fujian and Hunan. Good progress
has been made to date in stimulating investments in agriculture and agro-
p:ocessing and training local ABC staff. The proposed project would be
broader in geographic scope, covering six provinces in two major regions,
southwest and north central China. Increased attention would be given to
regional issues of poverty alleviation and a sectoral approach to stimulating
growth of production and agro-processing. It would also give broader coverage
to issues of institutional strengthening, including measures to improve
appraisal capabilities in the six project provinces; and a review of ABC's
loan policies and procedures across-the-board; enterprise financing; savings
mobilization; RCC development; and a program to upgrade ABC's staff training
institutions at both the central and local levels.
2/   The World Bank, " China: Finance and Investment", Report No. 6445-CHA
dated June 11, 1987.



- 5 -
II. AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA
Reform of the Banking System
2.1       In the highly centralized economy operating before 1979, China's
banks acted primarily as fiscal agents of the Government, transferring budge-
tary funds to state enterprises in accordance with the state plan. This role
began to change in 1979 when the Government, in an effort to stimulate produc-
tion, moved towards a more market-oriented, decentralized economy. In this
new environment, greater attention was given to using banks to mobilize
savings from enterprises, other agencies, and individuals, and to channel
these resources into high-return investments. To promote efficiency in
resource flows to various sectors, the Government has, in recent years,
introduced significant changes in the financial sector. The People's Bank of
China (PBC) has been reconstituted as a separate central bank by assigning its
rural banking activities to the ABC which was reestablished in 1979, and urban
commercial banking activities to the newly created Industrial and Commercial
Bank of China (ICBC) in 1984. PBC as China's central bank is now responsible
for overall monetary policy and supervising the banking network. The People's
Construction Bank of China (PCBC), which was created in 1954 to serve as the
Government's fiscal agent for budgetary transfers for capital construction
investments, began in 1980 to carry interest charges and extend loans with
funds mobilized through enterprise deposits. The Bank of China (BOC), estab-
lished in its present form in 1949, was until recently the state monopoly
handling all foreign exchange operations and international payments. Although
on a limited scale, other financial institutions can now engage in foreign
exchange business. The financial sector which until recently comprised mainly
the above specialized banks, is now allowed to expand through a growing
network of urban and rural credit cooperatives, and investment and trust
companies. Other relatively new institutions include a regional bank (the
Shanghai Communications Bank) and the China Investment Bank (CIB). CIB has
been an implementing agency for four industrial credit orojects involving
total Bank Group assistance of US$645.6 million (Ln./Cr.2226/1313, 2434/1491,
1663/2659, and 1763/2783).
2.2       Expansion and diversification of financial institutions have been
accompanied byt (1) a shift towards decentralized investment decision-making
whereby banks can modify or even reject projects; (2) greater competition
among banks to promote expansion in the range and efficiency of services
offered; (3) expansion in lending activities to include longer-term along with
short-term lending and non-state (private, joint venture) as well as state
enterprises; and (4) a shift from grant to loan financing, the latter increas-
ingly at positive real interest rates. The Government's long-term goal in
banking reform is to complete the transformation of banks from administrative
organs closely allied with local governments into independent, competitive
enterprises fully responsible for their profits and losses. Monetary control
would increasingly depend on indirect policy instruments in place of direct
controls, and interest rateg, which have been increased several times in
recent years, would become an important means of limiting the demand for
credit as well as an incentive for both increased financial savings and their
use in more productive investments. These major changes imply a host of



- 6 -
institutional adjustments such as replacing the system of profit remittance to
the Government with taxation, giving increased decision-making powers to bank
managers, developing a legal framework for settling obligations, introducing
modern accounting and auditing systems, and training bank staff in techniques
of investment analysis and risk management.
ABC Organization, Staffing and TraininA
2.3       The ABC is the major bank in China handling rural savings and
providing development finance for investments in agriculture and rural indus-
try. It is the second largest specialized bank, accounting for 12% of all
deposits at the end of 1985 and 27% of total bank lending. ABC has extensive
national coverage with a network of about 37p000 offices at all administrative
levels. At the end of 1986, there were 37 ABC branch offices in the provinces
(28), autonomous regions (2), and special economic zones and cities (7); 298
central sub-branches at the prefectural level; 2,419 sub-branches at the
county level; 28,217 township offices; and 6,342 savings offices.
2.4       The ABC Head Office, located in Beijing, has a staff of 471 and 17
departmentst including: Agricultural Credit; Commercial and Industrial Credit;
Personnel Management and Training; General Administration; Funds Planning;
Accounting; External Affairs; Research; RCC Development; Trust Management;
Audit; and Information (Chart 1). Its chief officers are a president and
three vice presidents, all of whom are appointed by PBC in consultation with
the State Councial and Ministry of Finance. The Head Office is primarily
responsible for formulation of policy and procedures concerning such matters
as credit planning, loan approval and loan collection; and for overall design
and management of ABC staff training. A System Reform Office, recently
established within the Research Department to conduct in-house studies of
ABC's current operations, is expected to play a key role in the planning for
the future development of ABC.
2.5       The provincial branch offices are organized along the lines of the
Head Office, with a president and vice-presidents appointed by the provincial
governments in consultation with the ABC Head Office, and similarly designated
departments to handle such areas as staff recruitment and training; credit
planning, operations and supervision; funds management; RCC development; and
research. These provincial offices coordinate ABC lending activities with
local governments, supervise operations at the county level and below, and
provide periodic reports on business operations to ABC Beijing. ABC's actual
banking transactions are handled mainly by the prefectural, county and town-
ship offices. Over 70% of ABC loans go to Supply and Marketing Cooperatives
(SMCs) and the rest to farm households, collectives, township and village
enterprises, rural industrial and commercial enterprises, and state farms.
2.6       To handle an expanding volume of business and a variety of credit
services, ABC staff size has been increased in the past few years. ABC staff
nationwide totalled about 387,000 in 1986 (36% more than 1982). Most of the
recent recruits are graduates of specialized secondary schools with some
additional training in banking and accounting. Of those hired before 1983,
about half have lower secondary (lower middle) school education, a quarter
upper secondary (upper middle) school, and a quarter are graduates of



specialized secondary institutes, colleges and universities. ABC estimates
that over half of its total staff have been involved in rural banking for more
than 20 years.
2.7       ABC accords high priority to staff training.  Since 1983, ABC has
provided pre-service and in-service training, much of it in the form of short-
term (2-3 month) courses, to an estimated 25% of its staff nationwide. ABC
itself has established 170 banking schools: 55 secondary vocational schools,
112 staff training schools, and 3 RCC secondary vocational schools for upgrad-
ing the general standard of education of ABC and RCC staff and providing them
specialized training in banking and related subjects. The three national-
level Senior Staff Colleges at Tianjin, Changchun (Jilin) and Wuhan (Hubei)
primarily train teachers for lower level schools and senior management person-
nel. These colleges are financed and operated directly by the ABC Head
Office. Since the training capacity of the ABC-sponsored schools cannot meet
current training needs, ABC also makes broad use of programs available through
local colleges, the People's Bank of China and the Television University.
Though training opportunities for ABC staff are many and diverse, the quality
of training varies widely, with most programs giving inadequate coverage to
such topics as appraisal methodology, enterprise management and market
analysis which are essential to modern banking.
ABC Operations
2.8       Lending Procedures.  ABC local branches have considerably more
authority regarding individual investment decisions than they did several
years ago. According to current practice, ABC's provincial and county level
offices prepare annual credit plans in consultation with local planning,
technical and financial agencies. Provincial credit plans require prior
approval of the ABC and PBC Head Offices. The credit plans specify an overall
loan amount expected to be available for agriculture, rural industry and
commerce. The ABC branches have the discretion to allocate these resources
among different types of projects and different areas and townships. Loan
applicants include specialized households and, as defined in the 1985 ABC Loan
Contract Regulations, "economic entities with the status of legal persons"
such as collective enterprises (mainly township and village enterprises),
state-owned enterprises (principally state farms and enterprises run by
prefectures and counties), state-collective joint ventures and cooperatives
and other kinds of farmer associations. By far the largest categories of
borrowers are collective and state-owned enterprises and cooperatives, which
together account for 90% of all loans.
2.9       ABC has recently revised subloan review and approval processes in
order to reduce delays and clarify accountability in subloan decisions. At
present, ABC offices at the township level and on state farms have authority
to approve agricultural loans of up to Y 1,000 for individuals/households, up
to Y 10,000 for collectives, and up to Y 50,000 for township and village
enterprises. ABC's sub-branches at the county level may authorize loans of
between Y 50,000 and Y 200,000. Loans larger than this require approval of
either prefectural or provincial branches. As a part of the national policy
to decentralize financial responsibility, provincial branches have been
authorized to approve loans up to Y 10 million. Loans above Y 10 million are
referred to the Head Office for approval.



- 8 -
2.10      Interest Rates.  In the context of recent economic reforms, includ-
ing banking system reforms, interest rates have been raised significantly and
are now positive in real terms. Current rates are generally 7.92% for one-
year working capital loans and range from 7.92% to 10.8% for short and medium-
term fixed asset loans. For longer-term development loans, such as those to
be financed by the proposed project, the rates are 6.48% p.a. for 1-3 year
loans, 7.2% for 3-5 year loans, and 7.92% for loans above five years. Demand
for credit has expanded markedly in recent years in response to the introduc-
tion of production responsibility system and the Government's efforts to shift
from grant to loan financing of rural development projects.  The Government is
seeking to expand the availability of medium- and long-term funds for high-
return investments in various resource development programs which, prior to
reforms, were generally financed by grants from the budget. Currently only 3%
of ABC's total loans are on terms of more than one year. ABC is constrained
from expanding longer term lending because of the limited availability of
longer term resources which are currently supplied largely from PBC and
foreign financial institutions. ABC must find ways to expand the core of its
longer term funds through increased deposits and possibly the issue of long-
term bonds. Such proposals are now under consideration by PBC and the
Ministry of Finance (MOF). The scope for further expansion of longer-term
lending by ABC would be a major focus of the systems improvement studies to be
supported by the project (Annex 11).
2.11      Interest rates on deposits from individuals range from 7.2% for one
year deposits to 10.44% for eight year deposits. These rates are positive in
real terms relative to a projected domestic inflation rate of 6.5% p.a.
through 1990 and 4.51 in 1991-95. Interest rates on short-term deposits
(under one year) from individuals range from 2.88X to 6.12% p.a. Interest
rate on sight deposits of enterprises is 1.8% p.a. while interest rates on
enterprises' one to three year deposits range between 4.32% and 5.76%. Future
reforms of the interest rate structure are expected to ensure that interest
rates become more progressive in relation to the term of deposits and that
rates on longer-term deposits from individuals continue to be positive in real
terms. The question of increasing rates on deposits of enterprises is
currently under review by MOF and PBC.
2.12      Sources and Uses of Funds.  ABC's sources of funds comprise share
capital from the Central Government, loans from PBC, and deposits. Total
resources in 1986 were Y 205 billion, over two and a half times the 1982
figure. The Government's capital contribution totalled Y 22 billion and PBC's
loans about Y 58 billion. Major deposits were those of RCCs (Y 50 billion),
rural commercial and industrial enterprises (Y 22 billion), individuals and
households (Y 26 billion), and rural collectives (Y 5 billion). Deposits have
grown at an average of 32% annually since 1982. Enterprise deposits have
increased sixfold and deposits of individuals and households nearly fivefold.
2.13      ABC's total loans outstanding as at the end of 1986 amounted to
Y 200 billion, up 220% since 1982. The portfolio consists mainly of short-
term loans (under one year) to SMCs and other enterprises for rural production
and marketing, Y 124.2 billion (62%), industrial enterprises, Y 10 billion
(5X), township enterprises, Y 28.8 billion (141), rural collectives, Y 8 bil-
lion (4%), state-owned enterprises, Y 9 billion (4Z), households, Y 6 billion



-9-
(3%), and RCCs, Y 4 billion (2%) (Annex 1).  ABC lending to collectives
(former communes and brigades) is declining with a corresponding increase in
loans to individuals and households, a reflection of the Government's
encouragement of individual household-managed agricultural activities as a
means to stimulate growth.
2.14      ABC reported a profit of Y 1.7 billion for 1986 (subject to audit),
about 48% higher than the figure for 1982 (Annex 1). Revenues (Y 22.5 billion)
were derived mainly from interest earnings, agency fees and interest from
redeposits. Expenditures (Y 20.8 billion) were mainly for interest paid on
deposits and administration, including salaries. The increase in profits was
accounted for mainly by the transfer to ABC's loan portfolio of subloans
previously disbursed by ABC on an agency basis for PBC and ICBC. ABC's
overall liquidity and profitability are closely monitored by PBC and MOF.
Profits are remitted to MOF which then allocates an amount to ABC to cover
capital expenditures (for establishment of new branch offices, improved
services, etc.) and write-off of bad debts. In recent years, ABC's average
loan collections are stated to be about 80% of the amounts falling due and it
takes ABC about three to four years to collect the overdue amounts. A sub-
stantial part of the arrearages is, however, the result of loans made during
the Cultural Revolution (1966-1976) when appraisal and supervision of loans
were not adequate. ABC is focussing attention on improving loan collection
procedures. As a short-term measure, ABC is offering bonuses to its agents
for collection of loans in arrears. With its gradual shift to the status of
an independent enterprise, ABC would be required to write off bad debts
directly from profits. Strengthening ABC's ability to deal with bad debts
would be a focus of the systems improvement studies to be supported by the
project (Annex 11).
ABC and RCCs
2.15      The rural credit cooperatives (RCCs)--financial institutions
collectively owned by farmers--play a pivotal role in providing banking
services to rural households. In 1985, some 60,000 county RCCs, staffed with
350,000 full-time employees and another 340,000 part-time agents, operated
through 32,000 branches and 360,000 deposit and credit delivery stations at
the township and village level. About 80% of all farm households have paid
the Y 5-10 fee to become RCC members.
2.16      RCCs accept savings and time deposits from and lend to individuals
and rural enterprises. At the end of 1985, savings and time deposits
accounted for 90% of the RCCs' total resources of Y 80 billion. The balance
(10%) comprised ABC loans and shareholders' contributions. Since 1979,
deposits have increased at an annual average of about 40%. Deposits of
individual farmers have risen very rapidly, reflecting the growth of rural
incomes, and now account for 78% of RCCs' total deposits (Annex 2). RCCs are
required to redeposit about 20-30% of their total deposits with ABC as a
reserve against their deposit liabilities; as of December 31, 1985, redeposits
of the RCC system as a whole amounted to 55% of its total deposits and about
23% of ABC's total resources.



- 10 -
2.17      RCC loans (Y 40 billion) are mainly to individual farmers and
households (48X), followed by township enterprises (41X), and collectives
(11%). RCCs provide loans for all types of agricultural, industrial and
commercial activities at the village level, including crop production, animal
husbandry, forestry, fisheries, handicrafts, and service enterprises.
Interest rates are about 0.25%-0.50% higher than those of ABC. In 1985, about
80% of the RCCs recorded a profit; RCCs showing a loss were for the most part
located in poorer areas where per capita incomes were rauch below the national
average of $142 (for 1985).
2.18      ABC has specialized departments at the county, prefecture, and
provincial levels to supervise RCC operations. In the past few years, in line
with development of a more competitive banking environment (para. 2.2), the
Government has encouraged ABC to give more autonomy to the RCCs in their role
as the major grassroot lending institutions. RCCs are now permitted to select
their own management staff, determine membership fees and policies, and
develop annual credit plans independent of ABC approval. To facilitate
transfer of funds and expansion of credit services, they are allowed to form
county and city RCC associations, each managed by an independent board of
directors accountable to a council of representatives from participating
RCCs. To help improve RCC services, ABC has expanded the number of places for
RCC staff in its various training programs. New RCC staff are now recruited
through examination and must be upper secondary school graduates to qualify.
Accounting Systems and Auditing
2.19      ABC requires accounts to be balanced daily at each office.
Summaries are reported by township offices every two weeks by telephone to the
county offices and township accountants come to county offices once a month to
reconcile accounts. County offices report monthly accounts to provincial
offices which in turn send detailed accounts to the Head Office every six
months. Data on loan operations in relation to loan targets in the credit
plan, forwarded to provincial levels on a similar schedule, show types of
investments financed, geographic location of subprojects, an,! expected incre-
mental production.
2.20      Recently-established internal audit departments within the Head
Office and provincial and prefectural branches are responsible for conducting
an annual audit of accounts handled by units at the next level below. The MOF
carries out a random audit of Head Office accounts; local bureaus of finance
conduct a similar check of provincial and other local branch accounts. The
State Audit Agency (SAA), established in 1985, has begun an independent audit
of selected ABC offices which will be extended to more offices as SAA builds
up necessary staff capabilities.  The SAA, which is directly accountable to
the State Council, is now responsible for auditing all projects financed by
the Bank Group and other multilateral agencies.



- 11 -
III. THE PROJECT PROVINCES
General
3.1       The project would be located in six provinces: Guizhou, Sichuan and
Yunnan in southwest China and Anhui, Henan and Hubei in the north central
region.  Guizhou, Sichuan and Yunnan cover 1.15 million sq km, 12% of China's
total land area, stretching about 1,000 km from Qinghai and Gansu in the north
to the Burma-Laos-Vietnam border in the south. The project-supported ABC
lending program in these three provinces would focus on about 130 counties, a
third of the totaL (384), mostly in northern Guizhou, central Sichuan, and
central, southern, and western Yunnan. Anhui, Henan, and Hubei provinces
encompass an area of 0.48 million sq km lying between the Yellow and Yangtze
Rivers. Proposed sites for ABC lending activities are distributed fairly
evenly throughout Henan and Hubei and, in the case of Anhui, are concentrated
in the northernmost counties bordering Henan. Some 180 counties, nearly
three-fourths of the total number (253) in these three provinces, would be
included in the project. Site locations are shown on IBRD Maps 20243 and
20244 and basic data on each province are shown in Annex 3.
Southwest Provinces
3.2       Climate and Land Use.  Guizhou, Sichuan and Yunnan lie in a sub-
tropical zone of high plateaus and mountainous or hilly terrain penetrated by
major river systems. The climate is typically mild and humid with a 8-9 month
growing season and average annual rainfall of 1,200 mm. Soils in the region
are mainly deep and well-structured red and yellow soils which are suitable
for growing a wide range of tropical and subtropical crops. Though climate,
rainfall, and scil conditions are favorable, farming is constrained by the
limited availability of land of reasonable slope (up to 20 degrees) for crop
cultivation. About 10% of the total area is currently under cultivation at
crop yields which are typically (excluding the Sichuan Basin) below the
national average. Most of this consists of plains and valleys where the major
crops are rice and wheat, or terraced hillsides planted with tea, tobacco and
other cash crops, as well as grain. Most of the remaining area is steep
terrain unsuitable for agriculture. No more than about 3 million ha of hilly
land could be developed for farming, and much of this has marginal economic
value. This limited amount of arable land must support large populations.
Sichuan alone has 102 million people--75% of them living in the fertile
Sichuan Basin--and the combined population of the three provinces is 166
million or 16% of the national total.
3.3       Strategy for Growth.  To stimulate economic growth in the southwest
region, the Government in recent years has sought to diversify agriculture by
exploiting large tracts of umderutilized land located in sparsely-populated
uplands and adjoining mountains where conditions are favorable for planting
tree crops, feed crops, pasture and commercial forests. Though overall
agricultural production grew eit 9-10% annually over the period of the 6th Five
Year Plan (1981-85), the region's shift to a more diversified agriculture and
expansion of agro-industries kas been slow, largely because of a shortage of
technical and management skills and the inadequacy of funds for longer term



- 12 -
investments. Guizhout Sichuan, and Yunnan remain among China's poorest
provinces2 In 1985, rural per capita income for Guizhou was Y 288 ($103 at the
then prevailing exchange rate of Y 2.8 = $1), tor Sichuan Y315 ($113) and for
Yunnan Y338 ($121), compared to a national average of Y 398 ($142).
North Central Provinces
3.4       Climate and Land Use.  The north central provinces of Anhui, Henan,
and Hubei are dominated by broad alluvial plains traversed by the Yellow,
Huai, and Yangtze river systems. Fertile soils in combination with a moderate
climate and adequate rainfall (800-1,200 mm) have created an environment
favorable to productive agriculture. However, the variability of rainfall,
deficient in spring but torrential in late summer swelling the rivers which
course over the low, flat terrain, has exposed the area in the past to devas-
tating floods and drought. Construction of large-scale irrigation and flood
control works since the 1950s has brought much of the flood and drought-prone
land under stable production. Currently as much as 40% of the total land area
of Anhui and Henan (29 million ha) and 25% of the area of Hubei (19 million
ha) is under cultivation at cropping intensities that range from 1.7 crops per
year to more than 2.0.  The iegion's agriculture must support 178 million
people, 17% of China's total population, in a situation of increasing scarcity
of arable land, the result of population growth and the loss of land to non-
agricultural construction.
3.5       Strategy for Growth.  Rural development strategies in the already
intensively-farmed north central regior. call for diversification of farm
production and increased output from agro-processing and other non-farm
activities. All three pro3ect provinces have made recent strides in diversi-
fication, shifting from grain to other crops and from crops generally to
livestock, fisheries and forestry. In terms of non-farm production, Anhui and
Hubei have grown faster than the national average since 1979, Henan at a
slower rate. However, non-farm production in 1985 in all three provinces
contributed only 31-38% of rural social product (GVAO plus gross output value
(GOV) of rural industry, construction, transport and commerce) compared to 46%
nationwide. Taking agricultural growth overall since 1979, all three
provinces have exceeded the national average, thus narrowing the gap between
rural per capita income figures for these provinces and the national
average. Already, per capita incomes in Anhui and Hubei approximate the
national figure of Y398 ($142). Henan, which with an income figure of Y329
($117) ranks with Guizhou, Sichuan, and Yunnan as one of China's poorest
provinces, is lagging behind largely because of low farm productivity in
drought prone areas and less diversified sources of rural income.
Agricultural Support Services
3.6       Transport.  Proposed sites for ABC subprojects in central Sichuan
and central Yunnan are served by an adequate road network linking villages,
townships, county towns, and the provincial capitals of Chengdu and Kunming.
In most of Guizhou and southern and western Yunnan, the road system is satis-
factory though some roads would be constructed as part of the project in
support of area development investments. The southwest rail network consists
of two north-south trunk lines cutting across eastern Sichuan, eastern Yunnan



- 13 -
and central Guizhou and connecting the three provincial capitals (Chengdu,
Kunming, and Guiyang). These lines link up with two lines running eastward to
the coast: the Lanzhou-Lianyungang (Jiangsu) line and the line from Kunming to
Shanghai.
3.7       All subproject sites in Henan, Hubei, and Anhui are served by a
well-developed network of rural, secondary, and main roads providing access to
town and city markets. The rail network, which is expected to continue to
dominate freight traffic, especially between provinces, consists of the
Beijing-Guangzhou and Beijing-Shanghai rail lines, the former running through
central Henan and eastern Hubei, the latter through Anhui. Zhengzhou, the
capital of Henan, lies at the intersection of the Beijing-Guangzhou and
Lanzhou-Lianyungang lines. The rail network in Anhui and Henan is being
extended: two new lines recently opened and three additional lines, one a
local Henan line, one between ShaAgqiu (Henan) and Fuyang County (Anhui), and
the third connecting Xuancheng (Anhui) and the coastal city of Hangzhou, are
planned for completion by 1990.
3.8       Power Facilities.  Proposed sites in the three southwestern
provinces have access to electricity supplied mainly by local power grids
which are connected to the southwest regional power grid. Electric supply is
generated principally by small (50-100 kW) hydropower plants. Sites in Anhui,
Henan, and Hubei would be served by existing electrical transmission and
distribution lines which are part of local grids connected to the East China
(Anhui) and Central China (Henan and Hubei) regional power grids. Coal-fired
thermal power plants are the major source of electric supply.
3.9       Research.  Each project province has a well-established institu-
tional structure for agricultural research in all of the major subsectors
targetted by the ABC lending program. The leading research organization in
each province is the provincial academy of agricultural sciences, a locally-
funded branch of the Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences administered by
the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries (MAAF). The
provincial academies operate a network of prefectural and county institutes
specializing in various aspects of crop and livestock research. The Sichuan
Academy of Agricultural Sciences, for example, has a number of affiliated
institutes specifically concerned with pig breeding and production. MAAF also
supports other smaller research agencies--e.g., the China Aquatic Sciences
Research Institute and the Tropical Crops Research Institute--which similarly
have provincial affiliates supervised by technical agencies--in this case, the
provincial bureaus of aquatic products and state farms. Research and field
experiments on rubber and other tropical tree crops are carried out by the
Yunnan Tropical Crops Research Institute, a Tropical Crops Research Institute
affiliate located in Xishuangbanna, Yunnan Province. Ministries other than
MAAF sponsor specialized research as well. The Ministry of Forestry, for
example, supports the Forestry Research Institute in Guizhou, the unit respon-
sible for much of the current research on gallnut production (para. 4.5).
Overall design and funding of research programs is coordinated by the provin-
cial science and technology commissions. Funds for specific research projects
are channeled through the appropriate technical agencies which are also
involved in dissemination of research results.



- 14 -
3.19      Extension.  Though specific arrangements vary from county to county,
all counties participating in the project have in place systems of extension
and training to channel improved technology and research results to farmers.
In some cases, the county research institutes play the lead role in carrying
out demonstration work and farmer training, while specialized services (plant
protection, soil testing, supply of seeds, etc.) are provided by a number of
separate agencies under various local government bureaus. A more recent trend
is to consolidate the range of extension and training services into a single
county agro-technical extension station. In this case, the agro-technical
station is responsible for conducting field experiments and demonstration
trials, introducing farmers to new technologies and providing diagnostic and
breeding services to farmers in townships and villages within its jurisdic-
tion. In some localities, the agro-technical station is being set up as a
self-supporting unit, with fees charged for the various extension services and
for participation in training classes. In many cases the stations also are
expanding their functions beyond the technical aspects of production to
include provision o& market information and assistance to farmers in arranging
financing for new production activities.
3.11      Marketing.  Sale of agricultural products is organized through state
and private marketing systems. The state system includes state food companies
which manage bulk procurement and inter-provincial trade; supply and marketing
cooperatives (SMCs) which do business with about 80% of farmers through a
hierarchy of local agencies, and state food markets handling retail sales at
government-determined prices. Private marketing is a recent phenomenon,
taking its present form only after the 1985 reforms. A major feature is the
agricultural trade market (ATM), a permanent urban market where merchants
lease space on a long-term or daily basis at rates which cover the cost of
utilities provided by the city. ATMs are usually divided into several
sections--e.g., meat, poultry, aquatic products, vegetables, fruit, grains,
and edible oils. Prices for goods sold in the ATMs are more flexible than
those prevailing in the state food markets, being determined by considerations
of supply and demand. Increases in the scale of household production and the
complexity of marketing channels have encouraged proliferation of private
middlemen to assist farmers in marketing their products. These intermediaries
are increasingly specializing in various aspects of the marketing process such
as procurement, transport, wholesaling or retailing. To facilitate sales,
particularly in situations where buyers and sellers are geographically
distant, the Ministry of Commerce is setting up a national market information
service.
ABC Organization and Operations
3.12      ABC's organization, staffing, financial operations and performance
in the six project provinces are shown in Annex 4. In all provinces, ABC's
organizational structure is similar: a branch office at the provincial
capital, subbranches at the prefecture and county levels supported by a
network of business and savings offices at the level of townships and state
farms (para 2.3). Of the three southwestern provinces, Sichuan has the
largest ABC structure (3,042 offices), followed by Yunnan (1,523 offices) and
Guizhou (802 offices). As for the north central provinces, ABC Henan has
2,949 offices, Hubei, 1,866 and Anhui, 1,135. The RCC system is relatively



- 15 -
less developed in the southwestern provinces compared with the north central
provinces, reflecting the differences in per capita incomes and savings
potential.. ABC offices in the project provinces together employ about 108,000
staff, ranging from about 10,000 in Guizhou to 27,000 in Sichuan, and increas-
ing at an annual rate of about 3-5%. Following the national pattern, about
50% of the staff have had education up to or below lower secondary school
(grades 7-9). Through short courses (2-3 months) and two year courses at the
staff training and secondary vocational schools, ABC branches are attempting
to upgrade the general educational level and professional skills of their
staff (para. 2.7).
3.13      ABCs in all six project provinces reported profits during 1985 and
1986. Total loans outstanding as of the end of 1986 amounted to about Y 49
billion. Reflecting the national trend (para. 2.13), during 1985, loans for
rural production and marketing activities accounted for 75% of the total, and
loans to township and village enterprises 19%. The remaining loans supported
rural collectives, state-owned enterprises, households, and rural credit
cooperatives (Annex 4).



- 16 -
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Scope
4.1       The main objectives of the proposed project would be (a) to stim l-_
ate growth and diversification of agriculture by expanding the availabilit of
medium-and long-term credit, and (b) to increase ABC's operational efficie..cy
through institutional development. The project would finance investments in
tree crops, livestock, aquaculture and agro-processing in three provinces in
southwest China (Guizhou, Sichuan, and Yunnan) and three provinces in the
north central region (Anhui, Henan, and Hubei). The project would also
finance a development program for ABC's three national staff colleges. A
training component would introduce ABC staff to modern methods of investment
analysis, provide local and overseas courses for faculty of ABC's staff
colleges, and supply teaching equipment and materials to these colleges. The
project would also include consulting services to assist in conducting studies
of ABC and RCC operations and a pilot program to introduce RCCs to longer term
lending.
Project Features
4.2       Each provincial ABC has developed an overall program for project
investments (Annex 5) which accords with current growth strategies outlined in
the 7th Five Year Plan. In Yunnan and Guizhou, project-supported ABC lending
would emphasize making use of underutilized land, much of it in remote upland
areas, through establishment and rehabilitation of tree crops and development
of pastures. Investments in tree crops would include chiefly rubber planting/
replanting, rehabilitation of tea and planting of sumac trees for gallnut
production. In Sichuan, ABC lending would focus on increasing value-added
through processing, mainly of meat, oilseeds and fruits, and on improving the
efficiency of pig production, a subsector in which the province already ranks
high nationally. The lending program for Anhui, Henan, and Hubei would focus
primarily on development of agro-processing; these investments would account
for about half of the total program in each province. Additional subloans
would expand the area devoted to fruit production, increase the efficiency of
livestock production, and make use of presently underutilized land to estab-
lish pasture areas for ruminant animals and to construct fish ponds. Indivi-
dual subloans would be appraised by ABC taking into account overall production
trends in the commodities financed, market prospects, availability of inputs,
and the status of support services including storage, transport, and technical
assistance.
Tree Crops
4.3       Rubber.  Sites for rubber development would be located mainly in
Xishuangbanna Autonomous District in southern Yunnan near the Burma border.
This is a high rainfall, moderate elevation (500-1000 m) tropical area,
particularly well-suited to growing rubber. In 1986, Xishuangbanna accounted
for about 70% of Yunnan's total rubber production of 38,000 tons. Over 90% of
Xishuangbanna's rubber was produced on 47,600 ha managed by the Yunnan State
Farms and Land Reclamation Bureau. Although yields and output in the area are
high overall (about 1.5 t/ha), an estimated 11,000 ha are planted with old,



- 17 -
low-yielding trees. Another 7,500 ha of currently unutilized land have been
identified as suitable in terms of slope, rainfall, and soil conditions for
new planting. New planting would be on lands below 800 m. altitude, with
good soils and less than 25% slope. The project-supported investment program
in rubber would provide for the replanting of about 10,000 ha on state farms
in Xishuangbanna and new planting of 2,700 ha on collective farms in
Xishuangbanna, Simao and Jiancang prefectures. The main investment costs
would be for land preparation (clearing, levelling and terracing), planting
material, fertilizers, intercropping, hand tools and labor and infrastructure
improvements such as construction of farm access roads. The per ha cost of
new planting is about Y 15,000 and that of replanting Y 12,000. High yielding
rubber clones would be available from local state farm nurseries. The
projected yields would be about 1.1 t/ha to 1.8 t/ha during the years 10-16,
and about 2.1 t/ha during the years 17-25.
4.4       Tea.  The project would finance tea rehabilitation on 16,700 ha of
farms in the collective sector, in Baoshan, Simao and Jiancang prefectures,
the mountainous areas in western Yunnan which specialize in black tea produc-
tion. Though natural conditions in these areas are suitable for tea cultiva-
tion--Yunnan as a whole accounts for 7% of China's total tea output and 11% of
black tea output--yields of primary processed tea are Low (270 kg/ha) mainly
because of inadequate plant renewal, poor cultural practices, and inefficient
processing techniques. The project would finance this component as an excep-
tion to the Bank Group's current restrictions on lending for tea, on the
grounds that the project areas, located in poorer regions of Yunnan, have very
limited alternatifes to tea growing. As most producers are small-scale,
relatively low income farmers, the proposed development is critical as a
poverty alleviation measure. In addition, tea as a perennial crop, would
provide better protection against soil erosion which is a serious problem in
the project area, than any alternative crops which can be grown there. Costs
of tea rehabilitation would be about Y 2,800/ha and would include land prepa-
ration and planting, planting material, low pruning, and fertilizers for the
first two years. The project would also finance construction of preliminary
processing factories to handle incremental tea production (para.4.15), and
provide overseas consultancy services to advise extension staff and farmers on
improved cultural practices and processing technology. At negotiations, an
assurance was obtained from the Government and ABC that tea rehabilitation
would be carried out in accordance with the technical guidelines acceptable to
IDA. These guidelines were reviewed and agreed upon during negotiations
(Annex 6). In Baoshan, the project would also finance new arabica coffee
plantations on state farm lands (1,300 ha) and on collective farms (400 ha).
Coffee development costs would be about Y4,300 /ha to cover land preparation,
planting material, fertilizers and labor.
4.5       Gallnut.  Investments in gallnut production would be made initially
in three counties in eastern Guizhou. China accounts for about 80% of world
production of gallnut, with more than a third of China's output produced in
Guizhou. Gallnut is a tumor-like tree growth which yields tannic acid and
tanning extracts. Tannic acid and derivatives of tannic acid such as gallic
acid, propyl gallate, trimethoxy, benzoyl, and hydrazine, which are used in
the pharmaceutical and leather industries, have high domestic and export
demand. Harvesting wild gallnut is now carried on as a sideline activity by



- 18 -
poor farmers in sparsely-populated upland areas. Project-supported invest-
ments would increase gallnut production by providing for systematic planting
of sumac (Rhus Chinensis), a hardy, fast-growing tree whose sensitivity to
invasion of the gall aphid causes the excrescence known as gallnut. Sumac, in
combination with a moss cover to serve as the winter host for the invading
aphid, would be planted on forest lands with moderately dense undergrowth and
no remaining trees of any significant growth. There would be no clear-felling
and the use of deforested areas for which no other financially attractive
investment has been identified, would help restore the forest cover with
additional benefit of an improved environment. The Forestry Research
Institute in Zunyi has provided the technical package for sumac planting and
gallnut production based on a pilot program implemented by the provincial
Forestry Bureau. Investment items would include land preparation, planting
material, hand tools and support services, estimated at Y 300/ha. Initially,
the proposed project would finance gallnut development on 5,000 ha with about
500 households participating. In mid-1989, ABC, with assistance from
Guizhou's Forestry Bureau, would review this program with the aim of extending
it to about 40,000 ha in eastern Guizhou. At negotiations, an assurance was
obtained from the Government and ABC that the review of the gallnut production
program would be completed by the end of 1989 on terms of reference acceptable
to IDA, and that ABC would consult IDA on the size and phasing of the expanded
program (Annex 7).
4.6       Fruits.  The program of investments in fruit tree development would
focus mainly on southern Yunnan, northern Henan and southeast Sichuan.
Although Yunnan's climate and rainfall conditions favor production of a wide
variety of fruits, the area currently under fruit cultivation is limited and
most of it is in need of improvement. In 1985, total fruit output in Yunnan
was only about 212,000 tons or 1.8% of the national total. Yunnan imports
approximately 30% of current production (64,000 tons in 1985) from other
provinces to meet provincial demand. Southeast Sichuan, similarly favored in
terms of climate and rainfall, has become one of China's major citrus-
producing areas. Further investments in citrus would be limited to late-
maturing varieties and rehabilitation of existing plantations. There is
considerable scope for opening up new areas for growing semi-tropicLl fruits
such as litchi and longan which are currently in short supply. Northeast
Henan has traditionally been a major producing area for dates, apricots, and
apples, but most orchards are now in need of plant renewal and soil improve-
ment. Project investments in fruit tree development would provide for the
establishment of new plantings and improvements to existing plantings amount-
ing to some 37,500 ha. Average investment cost for fruit rehabilatation and
development would range between Y 1,000 - Y 10,000/ha for land preparation
(clearing, levelling and terracing), establishment of cover crops, irrigation
works and equipment, planting material, fertilizers, pesticides, spraying
equipment, hand tools and labor. Until the initial crop is produced,
production inputs would also be financed.
Livestock
4.7       Pig Production.  The project would support a program of investments
in pig, sheep, goat, poultry and cattle production. Pig development would be
financed in feed-surplus areas where there is potential for high return on



- 19 -
investments. In line with the Government's "lean pork policy", investments in
the pig industry would aim to increase production of cross-bred or exotic pigs
which have a higher lean-to-fat ratio than native breeds. The project would
finance importation of exotic breeds, infrastructure for breeding farms and
household investments in breeding sows, pig pens and initial working
capital. The project would also finance investments in artificial insemina-
tion (AI) centers and veterinary facilities which would be operated on a
commercial basis.
4.8       Pasture and sheep development.  Investments in pasture development
for raising semi-fine wool sheep would take place primarily in eight counties
in northwestern Guizhou along the Yunnan border, a hilly area which lies at an
altitude of between 800 and 2,900 m, and which has adequate rainfall and a
nine-month growing season for good quality pasture species. Major investment
items would include pasture establishment, at an average cost of Y 400/ha,
provision of improved animal breeds from abroad (2,000 pure bred sheep) and
from other provinces (20,000 breeding ewes), and construction of sheep
shelters. A technical package developed by the provincial Agriculture
Department and the Bureau of Animal Husbandry, with technical assistance from
New Zealand, would be used for the proposed development. During early 1938,
the Agriculture Department and Animal Husbandry Bureau would also issue a
Technical Handbook for use by ABC and government staff implementing the
project. Initially, during 1988 and 1989, the project would finance pasture
development and sheep breeding on about 11,500 ha of class I and II lands
(classified mainly by nutrient quantity requirements for productive
pastures). During mid-1989, the Guizhou ABC would arrange, through the
provincial Agriculture Department and the Bureau of Animal Husbandry, a review
of the technical package and the organizational arrangements for the first-
phase subprojects, with a view to extending the program to an additional
20,000 ha. This review would also evaluate suitability of class III lands
(requiring an annual input of 150-300 kg of urea per ha) for pasture develop-
ment. During negotiations, an assurance was obtained from the Government and
ABC that the review would be completed by the end of 1989, on terms of
reference acceptable to IDA, and that ABC would consult IDA on the size and
phasing for the expanded program (Annex 8).
4.9       Cattle, Goat and Poultry Production.  Investments in cattle and goat
production would be based on making efficient use of underutilized resources
primarily in northern Henan, southern Guizhou, and northern Anhui. This would
;ncrease the supply of meat for domestic consumption and of skins mainly for
export. Cattle subprojects in Guizhou would combine pasture development on
about 8,000 ha of class I and II lands (para. 4.8). In total, about 100
family ranches with grasslands of 20 ha each would be established for beef
cattle breeding and some 1,000 family farms, with 2.5 to 7.5 ha of grasslands,
for cattle fattening and goat breeding. In Henan, the project would support
breeding of local, dual purpose, yellow cattle in four counties which have
been designated as specialized bases for this activity. Investments in goat
production in Henan and Anhui would take advantage of large quantities of
wheat straw available in the province which, when ensiled with urea, can be
fed to goats. Major investment items for cattle and goat subprojects include
pasture development, silage bunkers, animal shelters, initial breeding stock,
roads, and water supply facilities. The cattle development program,



- 20 -
especially in southern Guizhou, would be implemented by ABC in phases and
subject to periodic review of the pasture performance, and underlying techni-
cal parameters including sustainability of reproductive rates. The Bureau of
Animal Husbandry and the Agriculture Department would participate in this
review. In Sichuan and Henan, the project would also finance establishment of
hatcheries and commercial production of poultry.
Aguaculture
4.10      The program of investments in aquaculture would focus on developing
fish ponds to expand production of freshwater fish, mainly grass, common,
silver and bighead carp and tilapia. About 2,000 ha of new ponds would be
constructed and improvements would be made to about l,000 ha of existing
ponds. The greater part of the program would take place in Henan along the
Yellow River, in Sichuan on the floodplain near Chengdu, and in Guizhou in the
narrow valleys near the city of Guiyang. Sites for fish pond construction
would be swamps, marshes, or low-lying, poorly drained crop lands which are
marginally productive. Investment items for new pond construction would
include excavation of pond areas, drains, canals, pond lining, pipes, sluice
gates, pumps, and infrastructure such as farm roads and electrical transmis-
sion and distribution lines. Improvements to existing ponds would involve
primarily deepening and reshaping ponds and provision of filling and drainage
facilities. Investments would also cover production equipment such as work-
boats, nets, and aerators and the purchase of fingerlings, organic manure,
cheAIcal fertilizers, and feed required to produce the first harvest from the
ponds. Average cost for construction of new ponds would be about Y 13,000/ha
and for pond improvement, Y 6,000/ha.
Agro-processing
4.11      Though growth of agro-processing has been a notable feature of
economic development in the six project provinces in recent years, existing
capacities are not adequate to cope with the expanding production and diversi-
fication of raw materials. Many processing facilities, established during
1950s and 1960s, are outmoded in equipment and inefficient in design and
operations. The project-financed investment program would support establish-
ment of processing and storage facilities for a wide range of products includ-
ing rubber, tea, fruits, meat and other animal products, fish and other
aquatic products, animal and fish feed and oilseeds. The focus would be on
using modern technology appropriate for producing quality output consistent
with market requirements and on ensuring efficient use of by-products and
protection of the environment. ABC subloans would finance technical assis-
tance that is needed by subborrowers for design and construction of processing
facilities. In addition, provincial bureaus of rural industry, national and
provincial design institutes and suppliers of machinery and equipment would
provide technical assistance to subborrowers for preparation of designs and
feasibility studies, technology selection, and staff training in operation of
plants and product marketing.
4.12      Rubber and Tea Processing.  Investments in the rubber industry would
be used to construct and equip four centralized rubber processing factories on
four state farms in Xishuangbanna, Yunnan. Production capacity would be about



- 21 -
40 t/day of standard grade rubber. Each factory would be equipped with a
rubber testing laboratory to handle grading of factory products. The Kunming
Standard Rubber Laboratory would be provided with additional equipment to
carry out quality checks of all rubber processing factories in Yunnan.
Project funds would also be used to finance construction of a rubber compound-
ing factory which would produce semi-processed rubber compounds for domestic
manufacturing industries. The Bureau of State Farms has proposed that the
project-supported program of investments in rubber include establishment of a
rubberwood utilization plant and a rubberseed oil extraction plant. Detailed
studies of the technical feasibility of these plants and the marketability of
their products would be prepared by the Yunnan Bureau and submitted to ABC for
review and evaluation as a basis for subloan approval. Feasibility studies
would include detailed designs for treatment of rubber effluents. Investments
in tea processing in Yunnan would include establishment of 25 new factories at
an average cost of Y 150,000 and expansion and rehabilitation of 60 existing
plants for primary processing of tea. During negotiations, an assurance was
obtained that ABC would forward to IDA for review, the design specifications
of typical rubber and tea processing plants before the first subloan in each
such category is finally approved by ABC.
4.13      Meat Processing.  Investments in meat processing would focus on
establishing about 50 small-and medium-capacity slaughterhouses to handle
about 80,000 tons liveweight, comprised primarily of pigs in Sichuan and
Hubei, goats in Henan and Anhui, and sheep and cattle in Guizhou. The equip-
ment would include mechanical dehiders, mobile high pressure cleaners, blast
freezing and cold storage, and packaging of meat and meat products. Plants
would be designed to modern standards and would include facilities for
effluent treatment. Investment funds would also be used to develop modern
fish storage and processing plants, tanneries, and wool processing plants.
4.14      Fruit and Oil Seeds Processing.  Investments in fruit storage and
processing would establish facilities for cold storage, sorting, grading and
waxing of fruit; fruit juice extraction, bottling, canning and concentration;
and packing of dried fruits. Most of the plants would be small to medium
capacity (annual throughput of 2,000 to 10,000 tons) and would be equipped to
handle a variety of fruits as they come into season. Subloans for oil proces-
sing would be used to construct and upgrade small to medium- scale (1-2.5
t/hr) plants to extract oil from sesame, soybean, rapeseed, cottonseed,
peanuts and other seeds. The plants would be equipped with solvent extraction
and oil neutralization units and machinery for bleaching, deodorizing, and
hydrogenation. The oil extraction rate achieved in the new plants would be
significantly higher than in existing plants and the refined oil would be of
better quality in terms of flavor, storage, and nutrition.
4.15      Feed Mills.  To support expanded pig and fish production, the
project would provide funds fir investments in feed mills. Most feed mills
would be small (1.5-2.5 Ahr); larger car ity mills would be established in
the grain surplus provinces of Sichuan, Henan and Hubei to support expanding
pig production. Most feed mills would produce concentrate feeds to supplement
other ingredients available to farmers locally.  They would be equipped with
laboratories for analysing raw materials to determine optimal feed composition
with respect to nutrients and price. A number of agencit;- are involved in



- 22 -
establishing new capacities in feed milling and the overall coordination of
the development program would be the task of Feed Offices of the Provincial
Economic Commissions. ABC would finance investments in feed mills after
obtaining a clearance from the provincial Feed Offices.
Pilot Program for Longer Term Lending through RCCs
4.16      The project would support ABC's pilot program to introduce longer
term lending practices to selected rural credit cooperatives (RCCs) in Henan,
Hubei, Anhui, and Sichuan. The main objective of this program would be to
establish a model for longer term lending by RCCs in response to the growing
demand for such resources from individual households and enterprises
(para. 1.9). The main elements of the pilot program would be training of RCC
staff in project appraisal and introducing refinancing mechanisms between ABC
and RCCs and possibly involving PBC, in support of RCCs' longer term
lending. While RCCs, with their extensive network of branches and agency
arrangements at the village-level, are fitted organizationally to handle
smallholder loans, lack of resources and skills in longer term credit
management have limited their portfolio to date to short-term working capital
loans (para. 2.17). ABC itself would not be able to meet the growing demand
for longer-term credit from individual households unless these are part of
larger-scale collective enterprises, because for ABC, the costs of handling
numerous small loans at the village level would be much higher than those for
RCCa.
4.17      The pilot program would start with Anhui and Hubei and following a
review during 1989, it would be extended to Henan and Sichuan in 1990. About
100 RCCs from the four provinces are expected to participate in the project.
At negotiations an assurance was obtained from ABC that the pilot program
would be implemented in accordance with criteria and lending terms acceptable
to IDA (Annex 9).
Technical Assistance
4.18      The project would assist ABC in implementing its staff training
program and provide consultancy services for ABC's in-house studies in support
of its systems reform activities. Details of project-assisted training
activities are given in Annex 10 and of in-house studies in Annex 11. The
training program would have two main elements: upgrading and expansion of the
staff training facilities at ABC's three national-level Senior Staff Colleges;
and training of ABC's credit and technical staff from the six project
provinces to meet the requirements of the proposed project.
4.19      Upgrading of Staff Training Colleges.  ABC's three senior national-
level Senior Staff Colleges at Tianjin, Wuhan (Hubei), and Changchun (Jilin)
are responsible for the training of ABC's management personnel and of teachers
for ABC's 170 secondary vocational and staff training schools which offer
training to its operational staff. The main emphasis of the project-assisted
training program would be on upgrading the faculty and facilities at the three
colleges, which in turn would train the managerial staff and teachers of
lower-level schools in key subjects including project appraisal, market
analysis, small enterprise management, modern banking practices and teaching



- 23 -
techniques. Several new short-term courses would be introduced and existing
courses upgraded at the three colleges and vocational and staff training
schools. Through improved instruction, ABC schools would gradually turn out
better trained managerial and operational staff, thus helping to improve the
range and quality of ABC services, and contributing to more efficient internal
management.
4.20      Specifically, the project would include: (a) overseas training for
selected faculty members of the three colleges (including ABC senior
management staff who often teach at these colleges); (b) visits of overseas
teachers (consultants) to assist the three colleges in designing and teaching
new courses; and (c) purchase of equipment, library resources and facilities
for reproducing training materials (Annex 10, Tables 3 and 4). At negotia-
tions, an assurance was obtained from ABC that staff training would be carried
out in accordance with a program agreed upcn with IDA which would be reviewed
on an annual basis. The program for calendar year 1988 was reviewed and
agreed upon during negotiations.
4.21      Training of Project-related staff.  Training of ABC staff in the six
project provinces is currently well under way. During 1987, before the
commencement of the project, some 2,000 staff will have completed training in
the project appraisal course scheduled to be held by ABC's provincial
branches. During the first year of the project (1988), an additional 1,350
staff would be trained in project appraisal. Curricula and case studies for
these courses have been developed under the Rural Crdit I and II projects.
ABC staff with training and practical experience in project appraisal would
teach these courses. ABC would also conduct about 10 courses in project
monitoring and evaluation for key staff in the six provinces, using the
recently-developed manual for the Rural Credit I and II Projects (para.1.8).
4.22      Consulting services for in-house studies,  ABC has already iuitiated
in-house reviews and studies in support of its systems improvement program.
As a part of this effort, the project would assist ABC by providing local and
international consultancy assistance to carry out in-house studies in key
topics including the following: ABC's loan approval policies and procedures
(including resources for longer term lending), subloan collection and write-
offs, transaction costs of ABC lending, enterprise financing, increased
deposit mobilization, and institutional development of RCCs. Consultants
would help ABC in designing the proposed studies, carrying out data analysis,
and formulating recommendations. ABC's Research Department would carry out
the studies with support from the research staff at the provincial branches.
The studies would be phased into ABC's Research program starting in 1988. At
negotiations, an assurance was obtained from ABC that the studies would be
carried out in accordance with terms of reference and timing agreed to with
IDA (Annex 11).
Cost Estimates and Financing
4.23      Cost Estimates.  The total project cost is estimated at US$340
million including US$79.5 million equivalent or about 23% in foreign exchange
and US$20 million in related taxes and duties (Table 4.1). Estimates are
based on November 1987 prices and do not include price contingencies as it is



- 24 -
expected that any cost changes would lead to an adjustment in the number of
subloans (Table 4.1).
Table 4.1:  PROJECT COST SUMKARY
Local  Foreign    Total  Local  Foreign  Total  F.EX Z
---- (Y million) ----    ---- ($ million) ----
A. ABC Subloans
Tree crops             382.5    42,5      425.0  103.4      11.5  114.9      10
Livestock              164.3    40.7      205.0   44.4      11.0   55.4      20
Aquaculture            114.0    10.0      124.0   30.8       2.7   33.5       8
Agro-processing        293.6   195.4      489.0   79.4      52.8  132.2      40
Subtoal             954.4   288.6   1,243.0  258.0       78.0  336.0     23
B. Technical Assistance
ABC Staff training       5.9     4.4       10.3    1.8       1.2    3.0      40
Consulting services      2.6      1.1       3.7    0.7       0.3    1.0      30
Subtotal              8.5     5.5       14.0    2.5       1.5    4.0     37
Total               962.9   294.1   l.257.0  260.5       79.5  340.0      23
4.24      Financing# The proposed IDA credit of SDR 123.8 million (US$170
million equivalent) would contribute about 50% of total project cost,
including taxes, or about 53Z of total costs net of taxes. The IDA credit
would finance 1OOZ of the foreign exchange requirement plus 352 of local
costs. The remaining projett cost would be financed up to about 20% by ABC
($69.2 million) and 30% by subborrowers ($100.8 million). About $8 million of
the IDA credit is expected to be onlent by ABC to selected RCCs (para. 4.16),
in which case, those RCCs would contribute about $3 million equivalent to the
project cost, correspondingly reducing ABC's contribution. Retroactive
financing of SDR 4 million (about US$5.5 million) would be required for
expenditures incurred after June 1, 1987 and before effectiveness for subloans
disbursed by ABC, consistent with the project's terms and conditions.
Procurement
4.25      Machinery and Equipment.  The procurement arrangements have been
evolved in line with the Bank Group guidelines for credit projects (Table
4.2). Procurement of machinery and equipment, spread over six provinces and



- 25 -
carried out over five years, would be too dispersed and small-scale to be
suitable for International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Vehicles and smaller
machinery and equipment for on-farm development, farm support and agro-proces-
sing facilities, and staff training would be procured from local machinery
companies and suppliers and the increasing number of representatives of
foreign suppliers in China, by prudent shopping procedures acceptable to
IDA. To facilitate technology transfer, larger investments in fruit storage
and processing; meat, other livestock products and oilseeds processing; and
feed, tea and rubber processing would be procured in accordance with prudent
shopping and limited international bidding procedures (LIB) acceptable to
IDA. Contracts for procurement of machinery and equipment involving shopping
procedures are expected to amount to Y 148 million ($40 million) and LIB
procedures Y 111 million ($30 million). Arrangements for procurement of
machinery and equipment ar4 summarized as follows:
(a)  Contracts for purchase of machinery and equipment items or groups of
items aggregating up to US$100,000 would be awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations from at least three qualified
suppliers;\
(b)  Contracts for purchase of investment items with costs exceeding
US$100,000 would be awarded through LIB procedures in accordance
with the procedures sct out in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits". This would be done on the basis of
evaluation and comparison of bids invited from at least four
qualified suppliers, from at least three different countries.
Individual contracts in this category are not likely to exceed US$4
million; and
(c) Award of contracts exceeding US$500,000 would require prior review
by IDA.
4.26      Civil Works and Agricultural Inputs.  Civil works and agricultural
inputs would be procured under local procedures acceptable to IDA. Civil
works, including earthworks and construction of structures for support facili-
ties, would be undertaken mainly by households and collectives using their own
labor. Some of the civil works, especially construction of buildings by
collective and state-owned enterprises would be assigned to local construction
teams (work brigades) primarily on the basis of their ability to carry out the
job satisfactorily and within the specified time. Government policy is to
encourage local competitive bidding (LCB) for ensuring more efficient, cost-
effective construction. Recently, the State Planning Commission has issued
model LCB guidelinLes for use by all provinces. These guidelines, inter alia,
specify criteria to be applied to qualifying bidders; methods for bid adver-
tisement to secure a satisfactory number of bidders; procedures for verifica-
tion and award of bids; and the rights and obligations of the parties
involved. All provinces are expected to adopt these guidelines in the near
future. ABC would be asked to forward a copy of sample bid documents that
would be used by subborrowers in the six project provinces for information and
review by IDA. ABC would require subborrowers to follow these guidelines and
it would verify their compliance during supervision. Civil works involving
LCB contracts are expected to amount to Y 185 million (US$50 million). Most



- 26 -
contracts would be small and scattered over a wide area and would not be of
interest to foreign bidders.
4.27      Farm households, collectives, state farms and state-owned enter-
prises purchase agricultural inputs including fertilizers, seeds, and animal
feeds from SMCs which have a network of branches throughout the country.
These organizations serve as intermediaries for retailing of items distributed
through national or provincial wholesale systems. With the growing market
orientation of the economy, household and collective enterprises have begun to
undertake purchase and sale of agricultural inputs at the local level, thereby
filling any gaps in, and providing some competition to, the cooperative
distribution system.
4.28      Consultants.  Consultants would be selected in accordance with the
Bank Group's guidelines and on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
About 900 staff-days of internationally recruited consultants and 500 staff-
days of local consultants would be required for staff training and studies in
ABC and RCC institutional development.
Table 4.2: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(USs million)
LIB        LCB         Others /a       Total
Machinery and equipment        40           -            30             70
(30)                     (10)           (40)
Civil works and inputs          -          50           218            268
(40)         (89)          (129)
ABC staff trng. and
consulting services           -           -             2              2
(1)           (1)
Total                     40          50           250            340
(30)       (40)         (100)          (170)
/a   Includes shopping and local procedures acceptable to IDA.  Figures in
parentheses are approximate amounts expected to be financed by IDA.
Disbursement
4.29      ABC is expected to approve most subloans under the project within
about three years, i.e. by the end of 1991. Disbursements under the approved
subloans are expected to be completed by December 1992. The closing date of
the project would be June 30, 1993. A schedule of estimated disbursements is
given in Annex 12. The disbursement rate is expected to be higher than the
Bank-wide and regional averages, since ABC has already identified most



- 27 -
investments suitable for project-financing, and appraised a significant number
of subprojects in each of the six project provinces. It is also in line with
disbursement experience under the First and Second Rural Credit Projects.
4.30      Disbursement of IDA credit proceeds would be as follows:
(a) 71% of project subloans disbursed by ABC; for the RCC pilot program,
100% of ABC disbursements to RCCs for pilot project subloans;
(b) 100% of expenditures for overseas fellowships and consultant
services; and
(c) for machinery and equipment under the technical assistance
component, 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory) and 75% of local expenditures for other items procured
locally.
4.31      Disbursement against subloans extended by ABC would be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs) listing subloans made. Disburse-
ments for overseas training of staff and for consultants would be made on the
basis *f SOEs certifying that the expenditures were incurred on the basis of a
training program agreed upon with IDA and that the consultants have been
employed in accordance with the Bank Group's Guidelines for the use of consul-
tants, Disbursements against expenditures for machinery and equipment under
the technical assistance component would be fully documented for contracts
exceeding US$200,000. For contracts up to US$200,000, disbursements would be
made against SOEs. Supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained by ABC
and made available to IDA staff for review during supervision missions.
4.32      In order to provide for efficient disbursement of credit proceeds, a
Special Account would be set up in US dollars in a bank acceptable to IDA with
an initial deposit of US$ equivalent of SDR 10.2 million. The proposed
initial deposit would represent the estimated average disbursement of IDA
Credit for any four months. ABC would submit applications for replenishment
on a quarterly basis, or whenever the Special Account is drawn to 50% of the
initial deposit, whichever comes first.



- 28 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Proe        n t
5.1       General.  The proposed project would be executed by the six ABC
provincial branches under the overall direction of ABC's headquarters in
Beijing.  As in the case of the ongoing IDA-financed Rural Credit I and II
Projects, ABC's Foreign Capital Management Division (FCMD) in the External
Affairs Department would provide general policy guidance to the provincial
ABCs and would serve as the main link to the Bank Group. Provinces, counties
and cities participating in the project have appointed project management
committees (PMCs) to coordinate the work of the ABC and specialist bureaus.
Project offices (POs) and project units (PUs), established within the provin-
cial, and county and city ABCs respectively, would manage the day-to-day
aspects of subproject processing and supervision. Chart 2 shows the schedule
of project implementation and Chart 3, the organization for project manage-
ment.
5.2       Foreign Capital Management Division.  In addition to its supervisory
and liaison role, the FCMD would arrange counterpart funding, prepare documen-
tation for IDA on subloans requiring IDA epproval, review project accounts and
subloan contracts, oversee the audit of project accounts and SOEs, and compile
semi-annual reports on project progress. It would coordinate the work of
other units within the ABC Head Office which are responsible for implementing
specific project components: the RCC Department, which would oversee the RCC
pilot program; the Department of Personnel and Training, which would adminis-
ter the project's training program; and the Research Department, responsible
for conducting systems improvement studies (paras. 4.16, 4.18, and 4.22).
With the assistance of financial and technical specialists from the
Agricultural and Commercial Credit and Industrial Credit Departments, the FCMD
would also review subprojects which are above the "free limit" (para. 5.16).
To carry out the tasks related to the proposed project, as well as continuing
to manage the Rural Credit I and II Projects, ABC would appoint ten new staff
members to FCMD by December 1988. An assurance to this effect was obtained
from ABC at negotiations. Staffing and organization of FCMD would be further
reviewed by ABC and IDA during supervision.
5.3       Project Mana ement Committees and Project Offices.  Each provincial
government has established a project management committee PMC) to serve as an
advisory panel for the project. In the case of Anhui and Hubei, PMCs which
are already functioning as part of previous Bank Group/IFAD projects have been
given the additional responsibility of implementing the proposed project and
their membership has been expanded to cover the concerns of this project.
Each PMC is headed by a vice-governor and includes senior representatives from
the provincial ABC, the planning commission, and the bureaus of finance,
agriculture, livestock, fisheries, water resources, materials supply and rural
industries. Major functions of the PMCs are to provide policy guidance in
determining the overall pro 'ect lending program and to coordinate planning and
execution of subprojects between the provincial ABC and other concerned
government bureaus, especially with regard to adequate and timely provision of
local cost funding, improved production inputs, technical extension support,
and training.



- 29 -
5.4       Each provincial ABC, acting in accordance with recommendations from
the PMC, has established a project office (P0) to manage the day-to-day
aspects of project implementation. The POs consist of a manager and about ten
staff members including financial analysts, economists, and accountants and,
as appropriate, agronomists, livestock experts, and agro-processing specia-
lists. Their responsibilities include: assisting county and city ABCs in
appraisal and supervision of subprojects, maintaining subloan accounts,
administering the training program for project-related staff, reviewing
subloans aoove the "free limit" for county/city subbranches, overseeing
repayment of all project subloans, and monitoring project progress and evalua-
ting its impact.
5.5       A similar structure of project management committees acting in an
advisory capacity and project offices or units within the ABCs hAndling
routine operations, would be established in the 310 counties and 50 cities
expected to participate in the project. County/city Project Units (PUs) would
work with local technical agencies to prepare feasibility studies of proposed
subprojects. These would be sent for review and approval first to the county
PMCs and then to the POs and relevant technical agencies at the provincial
level. During project implementation, the PUs would assist borrowing entities
in drawing up construction contracts, conforming to current design, quality
control and environmental protection standards, and arranging for technical
assistance from the appropriate local government agency. PUs would also be
responsible for maintaining separate subloan accounts, supervising subloan
eollection, and reporting on project progress to the provincial P0. At
negotiations, an assurance was obtained from the Government that the PMCs
would be maintained during project implementation and that each PMC would
include a representative of the local Environment Protection Agency (EPA) to
participate in subproject feasibility review process and advise on specific
actions to safeguard the environment, especially for agroprocessing
investments with potential environmental impacts. An assurance was also
obtained from ABC that provincial POs would be maintained with staff, func-
tions and responsibilities acceptable to IDA and that a PU would be estab-
lished and maintained at each of ABC's county and city subbranches participa-
ting in the project. Where possible, ABC would use the staff of the POs and
PUs for its longer term lending outside the project and after the project
completion, it would assign this staff to its Credit and Accounting
Deparcments.
5.6       As has been the case in the Rural Credit I and 1I Projects, ABC's
provincial and county project organizations would rely on staff from local
government technical agencies (livestock, aquaculture, rural industry etc.)
for guidance and assistance on the technical aspects of project preparation,
appraisal and supervision. However, in the proposed project, these project
organizations would make greater use of their own staff as well as hiring
outside consultants to carry out independent reviews of subloan requests and
to supervise project implementation. This wi_1 become especially usefuL as
more and more enterprises apply directly to ABC for loans rather than follow-
ing the present practice of routing loan requests through a government techni-
cal agency. Each provincial PO is preparing a roster of consultants drawn
from enterprises, colleges and universities, and provincial Science and
Technology Associations. To assist PO staff and consultants in their review



- 30 -
of subloan requests, ABC is preparing a standard checklist of technical
considerations which must be addressed in each feasibility study. The feasi-
bility study itself would be carried out in accordance with various handbooks
of technical coefficients available through MAAF and other agencies and
institutes.
5.7       ABC is placing increased emphasis on project supervision and moni-
toring. The PUs would undertake regular field visits to supervise the
progress of project investments and provide technical support to subborrowers
with assistance from local government technical bureaus. This would include
assistance to subborrowers to: (a) raise the efficiency of production through
better techniques of production, design, layout and utilization of facilities,
(b) ensure that construction of facilities meets approved design standards,
and (c) improve quality control of both the project inputs and outputs.
5.8       RCC Pilot Program.  ABC's provincial branches would be responsible
for implementation of the pilot program, under the guidance of FCMD and the
RCC Development Department at the Head Office (paras. 4.16-4 17). ABC Anhui
and Hubei would carry out the proposed review of the program during 1989, with
assistance from the RCC Development Department in Head Office, IDA and
project-financed consultants (para. 4.22).
5.9       Staff Training Program.  ABC's Department of Personnel and Training
which is responsible for planning and implementing nationwide staff training
tprograms, would oversee the implementation of the project-assisted training
program (para. 4.19). Four divisions in this Department, comprising the
college and school office, cadre training office, teaching materials office
and TV University center would be involved in this activity. ABC has recently
established at the Head Office, a Staff Training Committee, with participation
of senior staff drewn from its operational departments, to oversee the staff
training activity. This Committee, assisted by the principals of the three
national colleges and the Officer-in-Charge of the project's training
component, would periodically review the implementation issues and
constraints, and recommend remedial measures where needed. In each of the
three national colleges, a senior faculty member would be designated to
coordinate the project-assisted program concerning his college. During
negotiations, an assurance was obtained from ABC that: (a) ABC would maintain
the Staff Training Committee in a manner acceptable to IDA, and (b) by June
1988, appoint four additional suitably qualified and experienced staff, one
each in the four divisions concerned with staff training. Staffing and
organization of the Training Divisions would be further reviewed by ABC and
IDA during supervision.
5.10      Systems Improvement Studies.  The System Reform Office in ABC's
Research Department at the Head Office would be responsible for designing and
conducting the studies (para. 4.22 and Annex 11). For field work in connec-
tion with the studies, ABC would use the research staff at the provincial
branches. At negotiations, an assurance was obtained that ABC would forward
the studies to IDA for review and comment.



- 31 -
Subproject IMplementation
5.11      ABC expects that, of the medium and long-term loan funds provided by
the project, about 10X would be extended directly to specialized households
and joint household units, about 602 to collective enterprises, and the
remaining 301 to state-owned enterprises, joint ventures and cooperatives.
Estimated number of subprojects to be appraised would be about 1,200. Collec-
tive enterprises, households, and state farms would be the main units involved
in expanded production of tree crops, livestock and aquaculture. Typically, a
township would organize 25-100 households into production enterprises of
various kinds--e.g., a 50 to 100 ha tea plantation, a 20-50 ha sheep or cattle
fattening farm, or a 25-50 ha area of fish pond. The enterprise would borrow
project funds from the local ABC on behalf of its member households. The
enterprise would in turn enter into contracts with each of its member house-
holds specifying the assets contracted (land, equipment, animals), the length
o.: the contract period (for land, usually 15-30 years), any agreed production
oaotas and purchase prices, and the farmer's contracting fee including agri-
cultural taxes, charges on township-supplied inputs and services, and the
amount of annual repayments on the ABC loan. Under the current system of
guidance planning, farmers generally have the option of using any available
channel for purchase of inputs and sale of output. Specialized households and
partnerships would enter into similar contractual arrangements with townships
on use of land and other assets and deal directly with the local ABC in
securing subloans. Most state farms now practice some form of contracting for
production with constituent households. In most instances, the state farm,
like the township enterprise, would sign the subloan agreement with the local
ABC and provide for repayment through contracts with its farm households.
5.12      State-owned enterprises, state-collective partnerships, state farms,
and SMCs would be the major borrowers of project funds for agro-processing.
Some of these subloans would be for renovating existing enterprises, the rest
for establishing new facilities. Enterprises so assisted by the project would
be operated as commercial ventures with their output priced generally at
competitive market levels. Legally, they would have the status of state-owned
etiterprises or companies with charters registered with the appropriate local
office of the General Administration of Industry and Commerce defining the
scope of their activities, sources and amount of capital, borrowing powers and
management structure. Collectives and state-owned enterprises would allocate
the subloans pro rata to participating households, which would be jointly and
severally responsible for repayment of principal and interest to ABC and RCCs.
Onlending Terms and Conditions
5.13      Under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, to be concluded as a condition of
Credit effectiveness, the Government would make IDA funds available to ABC for
onlending to subborrowers in the six provinces. The Subsidiary Loan would be
repaid in the currency used (either SDR equivalent of foreign currency used or
renminbi) over 20 years, including 5 years grace, at an interest rate of 4.51
p.a. with commitment charges of 0.5% to be borne by ABC. During negotiations,
an assurance to this effect was obtained from the Government. An assurance
was obtained from ABC that funds onlent by the Government from the IDA Credit
for subloans would be allocated for credit programs in the six project



- 32 -
provinces in amounts acceptable to IDA, according to the following schedule:
Guishou, US$15 million equivalent; Sichuan, $40 million; Yunnan, $48 million;,
Anhui, $10 million; Henan, $40 million; and Hubei, $15 million. The
Government would onlend the IDA credit to ABC mainly in Renminbi, as most
subloans under the project would be in local currency. However, ABC would
extend some subloans in foreign exchange to enable enterprises to import
equipment and materials, breeding livestock, and technical assistance. At
negotiations, an assurance was obtained from the Government that it would make
available foreign exchange from the IDA Credit or other resotIrces, to (a) sub-
borrowers for import of machinery and equipment, breeding stock, technical
assistance and other essential inputs, and (b) ABC for meeting the foreign
exchange cost of the staff training and consultancy components. The exchange
risk on the IDA Credit would be borne by the Government, except for the amount
of credit used by ABC for extending foreign currency subloans, in which case
ABC would pass on the foreign exchange risk to subborrowers with the provin-
cial governments concerned acting as guarantors. The exchange risk on IDA
credit onlent to ABC in foreign exchange for its staff training component
would be borne by ABC. Assurances on the exchange risk were obtained during
negotiations.
5.14      ABC's prevailing rates for development projects range between 6.48%
and 7.92%. Loans for equipment purchases would range from 10.08% to 10.80Z.
These rates are positive and are expected to remain positive. Subborrowers
would be required to contribute about 30S of total project costs. Repayment
periods for subloans which would vary in accordance with ABC's cash flow
estimates for subprojects, would generally range between 5 and 12 years, and
would not exceed 15 years. During negotiations, an assurance was obtained
from ABC that it would onlend the project funds to subborrowers at the same
interest rates it charges on subloans for similar purposes and with similar
maturities outside the project.
5.15      Based on the present cost of its counterpart funds, the cost of IDA
Credit at 4.5% and the average lending rate estimated at 8%, ABC would receive
a spread of about 2.5 p.a. on project lending. ABC's objective is to
restrict the project lending costs (including administration cost at all
levels, cost of carrying subloan defaults, and commitment charges on the IDA
Credit) to about 2Z through improved operational efficiency including timely
collection of subloans. ABC would also review periodically the interest rates
for project lending in the context of rising cost of deposit and other funds
and of portfolio management, and approach the People's Bank of China, through
MOF, for approval of any increases needed in the lending rates. The first
such review would be completed by December 1988 and IDA would be informed of
the results soon thereafter. During negotiations, an assurance was obtained
that the Government would ensure that ABC receives a spread of not less than
2% (or such other spread as may be agreed between the Government and IDA),
between the cost to ABC of the project funds (IDA funds and ABC's counterpart
contributions) and the project's onlending rates to subborrowers. An
understanding was also reached with the Government and ABC that ABC's lending
rates would be reviewed with IDA from time to time in light of ABC's cost of
funds and profitability and taking into account inflation and other interest
rates in the economy in order to ensure that the interest rates to be paid by
final beneficiaries are positive in real terms.



- 33 -
5.16      ABC would appraise all subprojects in accordance with the Project
Appraisal Manual (para. 1.8). Subloans in excess of US$3 million would
require IDA approval before being finally approved by ABC. An assurance to
this effect was obtained from ABC at negotiations. The prior approval
requirements are intended to help ABC ensure that for all subloans which are
large and/or involve new technology, procedures and criteria set out in the
Project Appraisal Manual have been followed and correctly applied. It is
estimated that about 20 subloans, accounting for about 15% of the total
project funds, would require prior IDA approval. In addition, individual
subloans in excess of Y 4 million (about $1 million equivalent), involving
about 30% of the project funds, would be reviewed by ABC Head Office, with a
copy of the evaluation report sent to IDA. This would provide adequate
supervision by ABC Head Office and IDA over project lending.
Accounts and Audit
5.17      The county/city PUs in the project provinces would maintain separate
accounts for project subloans and expenditures. These records would be
forwarded to the provincial POs which would prepare consolidated accounts,
including records of their own project expenditures, to be submitted to ABC
Beijing for review. Assurances were obtained from the Government and ABC at
negotiations that the ABC branches in the six project provinces would maintain
aeparate accounts for project subloans and expenditures. These accounts
including the statements of expenditure would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA; as in the case of the Rural Credit I
and II Projects, these would be the provincial and lower level units of the
State Audit Agency. The audited project accounts together with duly audited
annual accounts (balance sheets and income statements) of ABC's provincial
branches in the six project provinces, and of ABC's total operations, would be
submitted to IDA within six months of the close of each financial year. The
audited accounts would include details of withdrawals from the Credit Account
made on the basis of SOEs and the auditors' opinions as to whether such
withdrawals were against expenditures eligible for reimbursement by IDA. An
assurance on maintenance of separate project accounts, audit of project
accounts, and submission to IDA of audited project accounts and ABC's annual
accounts was obtained during negotiations.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
5.18      The six provincial POs in cooperation with the county/city PUs would
monitor the project's physical and financial progress. Each PU would prepare
semi-annual reports which would include: progress in subloan approvals and
disbursements; loan collection record; progress in subproject construction;
technical problems encountered by subborrowers and steps proposed to resolve
them; cash flow projections for typical production and agro-processing enter-
prises; and an overall review of county ABC (subbranch) operations. This
information, available in part through the county ABC's routine loan adminis-
tration data and in part compiled from the PUs' separate records, would be
forwarded to the county/city PMC and the provincial PO. Each provincial PO
would, in turn, prepare a semi-annual report of project progress to be
submitted to the provincial PMC and ABC Beijing. The ABC would submit these
semi-annual reports to IDA within two months following the end of each



- 34 -
reporting period. Guidelines for monitoring and evaluation prepared for the
Rural Credit I and II would be modified to include special d'.aracteristics of
the proposed project.
5.19      Within six months of completion of Credit disbursements, ABC Beijing
would prepare for submission to IDA a Project Completion Report (PCR) in which
project results would be compared with appraisal estimates. The PCR would
describe changes in ABC's operational methods as a result of the project,
changes in the incomes and employment level of subborrowers, changes in
production technology, and the broad effect on subsector growth of supplement-
ing ABC's longer term lending resources. The economic and financial rates of
return on subprojects would be recalculated on the basis of actual costs and
reestimated benefits.
Environmental Effects
5.20      Project activities are not anticipated to generate adverse effects
on the environment, and several of the major activities would have clearly
beneficial effects. Much of the land to be developed or improved is hilly
land under sparse vegetation which is subject to erosion. Terracing, affores-
tation and planting of perennial crops and pasture grasses would provide added
protection from wind and surface runoff, thus reducing erosion. Feasibility
reports on individual or groups of subprojects would also include a descript-
ion of specific actions to safeguard the environment indicating whether these
conform to appropriate provincial guidelines on environmental control. An
assurance was obtained from the Government and ABC at negotiations that as a
part of the subproject review process, the provincial governments and ABC
would ensure that subproject activities would conform to appropriate
guidelines on environmental control issued by the provincial governments and
acceptable to IDA.



- 35 -
VI. MARKETS AND PRICES
Market Prospects
6.1       Project lending would be directed primarily toward the production of
goods with relatively high income elasticities of demand, including fruits,
beverages, vegetable oil, rubber, fish, meats, and other animal products. The
Bank's recent projections of domestic consumption of these commodities in the
year 2000, based on comparisons with consumption patterns of Chinese popula-
tions elsewhere in Asia and on the assumption that per capita GNP will
increase at the modest average annual rate of 3.5X, are summarized in
Table 6.1. These projections indicate that, relative to 1981-83 levels,
domestic consumption of fruit and fish is likely to increase more than
threefold by the year 2000 and that consumption of vegetable oil, rubber, and
meat should almost double. Since it will prove difficult for domestic
production to satisfy these large projected increases in demand, the domestic
market prospects for incremental project output of these goods are expected to
be excellent. Further, in the case of rubber, coffee, and wool, incremental
project output would help to reduce the large and growing share of imports in
domestic supply.
Table 6.1: CURRENT AND PROJECTED CONSUMPTION AND TRADE STATUS
Average Annual
Domestic Consumption             Net
(kg per capita)         Trade Status /a
1981-83      2000 /b      1983-85   2000 /b
Fruit                                5.7         25.0            X        X
Black Tea                            0.011        NA             X        X
Coffee                               0.002        NA             M        M
Vegetable Oil                         3.2         5.7            X        M
Natural Rubber                        0.4         0.7            M        M
Meat /c                              13.6        26.3            X        X
Fish                                 4.5         15.0            X        X
/a   "M" indicates net importer.  "X" indicates net exporter.
7i   Year 2000 projections from The World Bank, China: Agriculture to the Year
2000, Report No. 5206-CHA dated May 22,1985, p. 20; Issues in China's
Rural Development Strategy (Beijing: Agricultural Science and Technology
Publishing House, 1985) pp. 384 and 582; and Price Prospects for Major
Primary Commodities, Report No. 814/86 dated October, 1986, vol. 2,
pp. 60 & 62 and vol. 3, pp. 57 & 59.
/c   Includes pork, beef, mutton, and poultry meat.



- 36 -
6.2       The project responds to growing preferences among Chinese consumers
for improved quality and greater variety in foods, year-round availability,
and convenience. In response to the emerging preference for higher quality
foods, the project would increase production of lean meat pork and superior or
improved varieties of fruits, beef, lamb, and mutton. In order to take
advantage of increasing demand for greater variety and off-season availabi-
lity, subloans would be targeted to: the production of fruits which have long
been in short supply on local and regional markets, including litchi, longan,
kiwi, and Chinese dates; the promotion of early- and late-ripening varieties;
and the expansion of storage capacity. Lastly, the project responds to
consumers' preferences for greater convenience by canning, dehydrating,
flavoring and otherwise processing fresh fruit and meats, fish, and other raw
foods into soft drinks, jam, canned goods, sausages and other meats. Simi-
larly, the project's highly refined vegetable oil will have a longer shelf
life in addition to improved flavor and nutritional value.
6.3       Project lending would also expand production of a limited number of
goods intended for export, including gallnut extracts and canned meats. As
for black tea, estimated incremcntal production from the project would be
about 20,000 tons (para. 4.4). With available information on China's
production, consumption, and exports of tea, it is difficult to determine with
precision how much, if any, of the project's incremental production of black
tea would be exported. Given the continuing growth in domestic consumption of
tea, averaging 14% during 1981-85, it is expected that a significant portion
of the incremental production would be consumed domestically and only marginal
amounts would enter the export market with little long-term impact on world
tea prices. According to the Bank Group's recent projections for the world
tea industry, due to a rapid growth in consumption in major producer
countries, there are good prospects for world tea prices to increase in real
terms from their current low levels.
6.4       In the case of gallnut extracts, much of the production from the
first phase of the program would be absorbed in the domestic market
(para. 4.5). However, a significant proportion of the production from the
second phase of the program would be marketed outside China, where alternative
sources of the natural product are not widely available and comparable synthe-
tic astringents and detoxicants are generally more costly. Consequently, no
difficulties are expected in meeting the project's target of selling between
50% and 80% of incremental output of gallnut extracts on the international
market. A more detailed analysis of the export market for gallnut extracts is
planned during 1989, before launching the second phase of the project-assisted
program (Annex 7). Lastly, exports of canned meats, primarily to southeast
Asia, have been increasing at greater than 15% annually in recent years.
While the bulk of the project's incremental canned meat production will be
marketed domestically, a small share of high quality product would be
available for export.
Prices
6.5       In recent years, China has implemented a number of agricultural
reforms intended to expand the role of markets and prices in directing the
production and trade of most commodities. In 1984, the quota procurement



- 37 -
system was replaced by a contractual procurement system, with the Government
setting contract prices annually in response to changing market conditions.
The effect of the new system has been to bring contract prices more closely in
line with market prices and to allow farmers somewhat greater autonomy in
establishing cropping patterns. The contractual procurement system has not,
however, been implemented evenly across all commodities or regions; farmers
across the country are no longer obliged to meet procurement quotas for meat,
for example, but are still required to meet quotas for wheat and rice in
China's key grain commodity bases. In 1985, the government decontrolled both
wholesale and retail prices of fruits, vegetables, livestock products, and a
range of other commodities. In response, prices of fresh fruit and livestock
products rose by 36 and 22% respectively in the first half of 1985.
6.6       As a result of these agricultural reforms, project farmers now face
prices which closely approximate world prices for many inputs and outputs and
are free to purchase inputs and market their outputs on the open market to a
much greater extent than in the recent past. The only significant exceptions
to this rule relevant to this project are the prices received by producers for
rubber and oilseeds. China has maintained the domestic price of rubber at a
higher level than the international price mainly to stimulate production and
augment government revenue through import tariffs. However, the disparity has
been considerably reduced in recent years, from about 1902 to 60X, as a result
of the depreciation of yuan and the absence of any increase in the nominal
price of rubber since 1983. The remaining disparity in the domestic price of
rubber will likely be further reduced or eliminated before 2000 through
expected increases in real prices of rubber and continued depreciation of the
yuan. In line with the understanding reached during the negotiations of the
ongoing Rubber Development Project (Cr.1417-CHA), the Government is currently
examining the efficiency of ru-bber production and the findings of this review
would be used by ABC in subproject selection criteria.
6.7       With the partial decontrol of agricultural prices and markets in
early-1985, an increasing share of China's vegetable oil has been sold on the
free market at above-plan prices. However, since the planned price is now
closely pegged to the new free market price, vegetable oil sold through both
the official state marketing system and on the free market trades within the
relatively narrow band of Y 2.7/kg (plan) and Y 3.0/kg (free market). These
high domestic prices exceed world market prices by more than 100%, and are
primarily the result of insufficient supplies of vegetable oil relative to
consumer demand and government subsidized prices to oilseed producers. Given
these disparities in oilseed and vegetable oil prices, project support has
been limited to the upgrading of vegetable oil processing through financing
the replacement of outmoded and inefficient extraction units with modern
processing equipment. Modern mechanical and chemical extraction units will
increase oil extraction rates, decrease operating costs per ton of output, and
improve the quality of the vegetable oil and oilseed meal. The attractiveness
of replacing inefficient expellers with modern mechanical and chemical
extraction units is demonstrated by the financial and economic rates of return
estimated for a typical vegetable oil processing facility in Sichuan
(Annex 14, Table 8). These high rates of return reflect the greater technical
and economic efficiency of modern processing equipment and remain strongly
favorable with inputs and outputs valued at both financial and international
prices.



- 38 -
6.8       Current producer prices for lean uieat pork and lamb procured by
Government marketing agencies under contractulal arrangements tend to be lower*
in varying degrees in the six project provinces (5-15%), than the current
export and free market prices for these products. The impact on project
farmers of these official producer prices will be minimal, however, since a
large portion of the incremental project output of lean meat pork and lamb
will be sold on the free market. ABC would ensure, as a part of the subloan
appraisal process, that project-assisted investments in lean meat pork and
lamb are financially justified given the prices expected to prevail locally.
6.9       The financial analysis of the project subcomponents has been
conducted using 1987 average free market prices and, for rubber, the
government contractual price. Future financial price trends for individual
commodities remain uncertain, but it is unlikely that official producer prices
for basic commodities will suffer significant declines since the government is
committed to maintaining agricultural production incentives during the ongoing
reforms of the marketing system, and free market prices will generally reflect
buoyant demand prospects. For the economic analysis, farm input and output
values are based upon Bank Group commodity price forecasts (October 1986 and
recent updates), adjusted for international and domestic transport costs and
expressed in 1987 constant prices. Conversion factors are used to derive
economic prices for items which do not enter into international trade. The
current financial wage rate ranges between Y 2.8 per workday in southwest
China to Y 3.5 per workday in the central provinces. Given the severe
unemployment and underemployment in southwest and central China, the economic
value of unskilled labor has been estimated at about 50% of these financial
wage rates multiplied by the consumption conversion factor of 1.13. Thus, the
shadow wage rates adopted in the economic analysis are Y 1.6 antd Y 2.0 for the
southwestern and central provinces respectively. Current and projected
financial and economic prices and conversion factors are summarized in
Annex 13.



- 39 -
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION, AND RISKS
Production Benefits
7.1       At full development, annual project output is expected to include
250,000 tons of fruit, 25,000 tons of rubber, 20,000 tons of tea, 2,500 tons
of coffee, 35,000 tons of lean meat pork, 21,000 tons of beef, mutton, poultry
and other meats, 20,500 tons of fish, and additional quantities of wool,
timber, and other products. Expressed in 1987 constant dollars, the value of
incremental output of tree crops, animal products, and fish would be about
US$245 million annually. Utilizing part of this incremental output for a
portion of their raw material requirements, project agroprocessing enterprises
would at full development produce an additional 90,GO0 tons of soft drinks,
jam, and other packaged or processed fruits, 56,000 tons of vegetable oil, and
additional quantities of sausages and other prepared meats. Expressed in 1987
constant dollars, total value added by the project's agroprocessing
enterprises would be about US$34 million annually. In addition, lending for
the establishment of breeding facilities for lean meat pigs, beef and dairy
cattle, sheep and goat, poultry, and for fish nurseries would help satisfy the
growing demand for improved animal and fish stock in Southwest and Central
China.
Employment and Incomes
7.2       Employment opportunities generated by the project would help reduce
existing unemployment and seasonal un4eremployment among the rural labor force
in the three southwestern provinces at.d in a number of poor counties in the
three central provinces participating in the project. At full development,
the project would lead to a net job creation of about one full-time job for
each US$1,030 invested. At full development, annual incremental demand for
labor in the tree crop, animal husbandry, and fishery components would be
about 92 million work days, equivalent to about 306,000 full-time jobs. In
addition, the project's agroprocessing component would create the equivalent
of about 20,000 full-time jotbs. Annual income from project related activities
for project participants would range from Y 900 for full-time unskilled
laborers to Y 1,800 for full-time skilled laborers. These income levels equal
or slightly exceed levels for other farm and agroprocessing workers in the
rural areas of southwestern and central China, and would represent a
significant improvement in the welfare of the mostly underemployed laborers
expected to participate in the project.
Financial and Economic Analysis
7.3       Financial Analysis.  Technical Bureaus of the six project provinces
have prepared feasibility studies of over 75 typical subprojects that would be
assisted by the project. Based on these studies, ABC's credit staff have
appraised as many as 50 subprojects. This analysis is available in the
project file. The financial rates of return (FRR) indicated by ABC analysis
range between 25X and 35%. Eight representative models in four major
categories of investments were reviewed during appraisal, based on 1987
constant prices and the Bank Group's commodity forecasts for 1995 and 2000



- 40 -
(para. 6.6). Financial rates of return (FRR) on these investments, summarized
in Table 7.1, range from 17% for the tea component to 22% for the sheep
component. Since the proposed project would be a credit operation, the actual
mix of subprojects, which would be selected over a period of three years
would, inter alia, depend upon several factors including market prospects,
subborrowers' ability to provide down payment and availability of support
services (para. 4.2). Based on the indicative investment program (Annex 5),
however, the FRR for the project as a whole would be about 20%. Expected cost
benefit streams and annual debt service for each of the representative
subprojects are presented in Annex 14.
7.4       Economic Anal sis.  Based upon data for eight representative
subloans (para. 7.3), an economic analysis was undertaken for each of the
project's four major subcomponents. All economic values were converted to
local cuirency at the official exchange rate prevailing at negotiations, of
Y 3.7   US$1.00.  Economic price conversions were applied to major outputs,
traded inputs, and labor (para 6.7 and Annex 13). Using these assumptions and
discounting costs and benefits over 15-35 years as appropriate, the project's
overall economic rate of returq  (ERR) is 241, ranging from 15% for the sheep
component to 39% for the lean meat pig component (Table 7.1). At a discount
rate of 12%, which is considered to approximate the opportunity cost of
capital in China, the net present value of the project is Y 1283 million
(US$346 million). The FRRs and ERRs for each activity were tested for their
sensitivity to increased investment and operating costs (including labor) and
shortfalls from projected yields and prices (Annex 14). No single variant
proved crucial to the financial or economic viability of the project as a
whole or any individual component.
Subproject Cash Flows
7.5       A cash flow analysis was performed for each of the project's
subcomponents and for the project as a whole. The analysis indicates that
most of the subborrowers would require loan repayment periods of 7-15 years,
including 1-5 years of grace and assuming onlending to subprojects at an
average interest rate of 8.01. Consistent with its current loan policies, ABC
would require state farms and state-owned enterprises to pay interest due
during the grace period from nonproject resources, especially for rubber
development and major agro-processing activities. ABC would have a steady
inflow of funds beginning in year 4 and extending through year 15, and would
have no difficulty in repaying principal and interest to the Government within
20 years, including a 5 year grace period.



- 41 -
Table 7.1: SUMMARY OF RATE OF RETURN ANALYSIS
Net Present
Value of Investment         Rate of Return      Value @ 12%
(Yuan million)               (X)               (Y mln)
Financial   Economic   Financial   Economic       Economic
Tree Crops
Rubber                 140         109           18          19          106
Litchi                  15          12           25         27            50
Tea                     50          40           17          38          179
Livestock
Lean meat pig           62          74           17          39           98
Sheep                   49          63           22          15           15
Aquaculture
Fishponds              102          57           18          30           84
Agroprocessing
Cannery                 93         100           24          24           71
Vegetable oil           65           70          20          16           19
t
Total Project          1,243       1,169           20          24        1,283
Risks
7.6       No major risks are anticipated.  As the financial and economic
analysis demonstrates, all typical investments are able to sustain significant
increases in costs and reductions in revenues and provide satisfactory rates
of return. Institutional risks associated with channeling of longer term
investment funds would be addressed through staff training and upgrading of
ABC's and participating RCCs' procedures for portfolio management
(paras. 4.18-4.22). Government's agreement that ABC and RCCs would receive a
spread of not less than 2% (currently at about 2.5%) would ensure that their
transaction costs including the risk of a reasonable subloan default are fully
covered. Adequacy of the interest spread to ABC and RCCs would be reviewed by
the Government, ABC and IDA as necessary (para. 5.15). All major subloans
would be backed by local government guarantees to ensure their technical
support to project investments and assistance to ABC and RCCs in subloan
collection.



- 42 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.1       At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government on the
following:
(a) the Government would onlend the proceeds of the IDA credit to ABC
for 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at an interest rate of
4.52 p.a. with commitment charges of 0.5Z p.a. to be borne by ABC
(5.13);
(b) the Government would make available foreign exchange from the IDA
credit or other resources to (i) subborrovers for import of
machinery and equipment, breeding stock, technical assistance and
other essential inputs, and (ii) ABC for its staff training program
and studies (5.13);
(c) the foreign exchange risk on the IDA Credit would be borne by the
Government except that: (i) where ABC extends subloans using foreign
currency, it would pass on the exchange risk to subborrowers, and
(ii) ABC would bear the exchange risk for foreign exchange used for
its staff training program (parae. 5.13);
(d) the Government would ensure that ABC receives not less than 2%
interest spread (or such other spread as may be agreed between the
Government and IDA), between the cost to ABC of project funds (IDA
funds and ABC's counterpart contributions) and the project's
onlending rates to subborrowers (para. 5.15); and
(e) the Government would maintain PMCs for the six provinces during
project implementation, and that each PMC would include a repre-
sentative of the local Environment Protection Agency (EPA) to
participate in subproject feasibility review process and advise on
specific actions to safeguard the environment, especially for agro-
processing investments with potential environmental impacts
(para. 5.5) .
8.2       During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
and ABC that:
(a) the tea rehabilitation program would be carried out in accordance
with technical guidelines acceptable to IDA (para. 4.4);
(b) the proposed reviews of the gallnut, pasture development and sheep
breeding programs in Guizhou Province would be completed by the end
of 1989 on terms of reference acceptable to IDA and that ABC would
consult IDA on the size and phasing of the expanded programs
(paras. 4.5 and 4.8);
(c) as a part of the subproject review process, ABC and the provincial
governments would ensure that subproject activities would conform to
appropriate guidelines on environmental control issued by the
provincial governments and acceptable to IDA (para. 5.20).



- 43 -
8.3       At negotiations, assurances were obtained from ABC that :
(a)  ABC would forward to IDA for review the design and specifications of
typical rubber and tea processing plants before the first subloan in
each such category is finally approved by ABC (para 4.12);
(b) ABC would implement the RCC pilot program in accordance with
criteria and lending rates acceptable to IDA (para.4.17);
(c) ABC would carry out the staff training in accordance with the
program agreed upon with IDA, which would be reviewed on an annual
basis (para.4.20) ;
(d) ABC would carry out the project-related studies in accordance with
the terms of reference and timing agreed with IDA (4.22) and that it
would forward the studies to IDA for review and comment (5.10);
(e) ABC would: (i) maintain the Staff Training Committee in a manner
acceptable to IDA; (ii) by June 1988, appoint four additional,
suitably qualified and experienced staff, one each in the four
divisions concerned with staff training (para. 5.9); and (iii) by
December 1988, appoint ten additional staff in FCMD (para. 5.2);
(f) ABC would establish and maintain Project Offices with staff,
functions and responsibilities acceptable to IDA, and that it would
establish and maintain a PU in each of ABC's county and city
subbranches participating in the project (para. 5.5);
(g) ABC would allocate the funds onlent by the Government from the IDA
Credit to the six provinces in amounts acceptable to IDA
(para. 5.13);
(I) ABC would onlend project funds to subborrowers at the same interest
rate that it charges on subloans for similar purposes and with
similar maturities outside the project (para. 5.14);
(i? ABC would obtain prior approval of IDA for subloans in excess of
US$3 million, before being finally approved by ABC (para. 5.16);
(j) ABC branches in the six project provinces would maintain separate
accounts for project subloans and expenditures and these would be
audited by the State Audit Agency. ABC would forward to IDA the
audited project and annual accounts of the six provincial branches
and ABC's total operations within six months of the close of the
financial year (para. 5.17); and
(k) ABC would forward to IDA half-yearly reports covering the project's
progress within two months following the end of each reporting
period (para. 5.18).



- 44 -
8.4       Conditions of Credit effectiveness would beS (a) State Council
approval of the DCA and (b) the execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
acceptable to IDA, between the Government and ABC incorporating the
Government's lending and repayment terms of the IDA Credit to ABC
(para. 5.13).
8.5       With the above assurances and agreements, the project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 123.8 million (equivalent of US$170 million)
on standard terms with 35 years maturity, to the People's Republic of China.



CHINA
THIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Consolidated Balance Sheet of the Agricultural Bank of China, 1984, 1985 and 1986 (as of December 31)
(Y billion)
/a     /a                                                           /a     /a
Sources of funds                         1984   1985   1986        Application of funds                      1984   1985   1986
Deposits of rural credit cooperative   32.3   40.5   49.5          Loans to rural commercial and
Deposits of individuals                  10.1   15.5   25.8          industrial enterprises                 106.9  124.0  134.2
Deposits of rural commercial and                                   Loans to collectives                      23.5   26.4   40.7
industrial enterprises                 12.1   17.1   21.6        Loans to state-owned agricultural
Deposits of state farms                   6.4    6.3    8.4          enterprises                              5.0    5.9    9.0
Deposits of collective and local                                   Loans to households                        4.4    5.4    6.4
government units                        4.3    3.8    5.5        Loans to rural credit cooperatives         3.1    3.3    4.2
Other deposits                            7.8    8.5   11.7        Other loans                                3.0    4.3    5.3
Subtotal (ABC deposits)             73.0   91.7  122.5             Subtotal, ABC loans                145.9  169.3  199.8
Local government funds                    1.0      -      -        Loans on behalf of other banks
State contribution                       21.1   22.1   22.5          and organizations                       11.8     -      -
Net interbank balances                   65.4   59.3   57.9        Cash                                       4.5    4.7    4.7
Net surplus                               1.8    1.0    1.6
Total                              162.3  174.0  204.5             Total                              162.2  174.0  204.5
/a  Figures for 1985 and 1986 are subject to adjustment after usual internal audit, and verification by the People's Bank
and MOF.
Source: External Affairs Department, ABC, Beijing.



CHINA
THIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Consolidated Income Statement of the Agricultural Bank of China, 1984, 1985 and 1986
Jsnuary 1 - December 31)
(Y billion)
Income                                1984  1985/a  1986/a        Expenditure                            1984  1985/a  1986/a
Interest received on ABC loans        4.35   17.71   21.23        Interest                              2.13 }
}
Agency fees and interest earned                                   Interest paid on loans from PBC         /b   16.38   19.26
on deposits                         3.73  }                       and agency fees paid                3.73 1
} 1.31    1.28                                                   }
Other income                          0.87  }                     Compensation paid to RCC for losses  0.03 }
Administrative expenses               1.02  }
1 1.26    1.56
Other expenditure                     0.29  1
Total                            8.95   19.02   22.51             Total                            7.20   17.64   20.82
Net surplus                           1.75    1.38    1.69
/a Figures for 1985 and 1986 are subject to adjustment after usual internal audit and verification by the People's Bank
and MOF.
/b Most of the agency business previously undertaken by ABC for the People's Bank and other banks is now handled by ABC
on its own.
Source: External Affairs Department, ABC, Beijing.



CHINA
THIRD RMRAL CREDIT PROJECT
Consolidated Balance Sheet of Rural Credit Cooperatives (January 1 - December 31)
(Y billion)
Liabiltities                           1979   1982  1985          Assets                                 1979   1982   1985
Deposits                                                          Domestic Credit
Rural collective enterprises         9.83  12.10   7.19           Loans to rural collective
enterprises                        2.24   3.48   4.14
Township enterprises                 2.19   3.37   7.21
Loans to township enterprises        1.42   4.23  16.48
Individual deposits                  7.84  22.81  56.48
Loans to individuals                 1.09   4.41  19.38  >
Other deposits                       1.72   0.71   1.61
Subtotal (loans)                  4.75  12.12  40.00
Subtotal (deposits)              21.58  38.99  72.49
Redeposits with ABC                 19.07  29.96  40.14
Loans from ABC                       0.51   1.09   3.29
Other liabilties                     1.73   2.00   4.36
Total                            23.82  42.08  80.14              Total                            23.82  42.08  80.14
__~~~c



ANNEX 3
- 48 -                                     Table i
CHINA
THIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Bssic Data on Project Provinces in the Southwest Region
Guizhou               Sichuan                Yunnan
1980      1985        1980       198S       1980      1985
Pop,latlon (million)
Total                               27.77      29.88      98.00      101.88     31.73      34.08
Rural                               25.73      26.24      90.05       88.97     29.56      29.96
Rural labor force                    9.34      11.22      37.37       42.58     12.18      14.38
Agricultural labor force             9.48      10.51      36.91       38.02     12.23      12.97
Land area ('000 ha)
Sown area                        2,846.49  3,022.84  12,020.14  11,776.48  4,010.00  4,006.07
Irrigated area                     456.87    479.26   3,022.87   2,781.73    913.13    964.93
Income per capita (Y)                161.46    287.83      187.90      315.07    150.12    388.34
GVAO (Y billlon)                        3.80      7.23       18.27      31.31      4.59       8.89
Crop production
Grain
Area ('000 ha)                 2,419.68  2,213."7   9,952.77   9,393.70  3,595.13  3,320.19
Yield (tons/ha)                    2.68       2.69       3.28        4.08      2.41       2.82
output ('000 tons)                6,480      5,946     32,640       3,807     8,565      9,350
Oil-bearing crops
Area ('000 ha)                   217.11    355.13      545.01   1,021.00    110.52    118.11
Yield (tons/ha)                    0.72       0.90       1.31        1.49      0.59       0.92
Output ('000 tons)                  156        320        719       1,512        85        118
Livestock                      |
Pigs
Total ('000 head)                11,141    12,412      14,742      16,217    15,893    19,021
Meat production ('000)              494        669        494         611       541        967
Sheep/goats
Total ('000 head)                 3,833      2,155      6,784       6,615     1,890      1,205
Meat production ('000)               18         20         29          34        80         70
Cattle
Total ('000 head)                 2,409      3,983      3,396      6,099      3,109     3,200
Meat production ('000)               80         25         70          30        50         40
Fisheries (freshwater culture)
Area ('000 ha)                     290.71    365.73      147.56      163.80    275.35    411.93
Production ('000 tons)              72.81    173.10       29.14       63.70    135.66    374.90



ANNEX 3
- 49                                      Table 2
CHINA
THIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Basic Data on Project Provlnces in t5a sorth Central Region
Anhui                Henan                 Hubel
1980      If8S       1980        1985      1980       1985
Population (million)
Total                               49.56     51.56       73.97      77.13     48.84      49.31
Rural                               44.82     44.76       68.16      68.66     41.07      39.27
Rural labor force                   16.70     19.74       25.05      29.39      15.52     17.00
Agricultural labor force            16.71     17.27       24.57      25.58      14.33     13.24
Land area ('000 ha)
Sown area                        7,743.54  8,190.23  10,793.66  11,691.24  7,480.80  7,335.33
Irrigated area                   2,438.00  2,106.00   3,536.27   3,189.93  2,345.00  2,293.33
Income per capita (Y)                184.82    369.41      160.73     329.37    169.88    421.24
GVAO (Y billion)                       8.88     19.82       15.35      24.15      9.41      19.23
Crop production
Grain
Area ('000 ha)                 6,028.95  3,901.55   8,863.36   9,033.85  5,354.74  5,110.82
Yield (tons/ha)                    2.42      3.67        2.42       3.00      2.87       4.34
output ('000 tons)               14,S540    21,680    21,485      27,105    15,365    22,161
Oil-bearing crops
Area ('000 ha)                   570.68  1,090.34      710.62     794.06    330.90    604.90
Yield (tons/ha)                    0.87      0.96        0.65       1.35      0.62       0.98
Output ('000 tons)                  498     1,457         462        962       206        730
Livestock
Pigs
Total ('000 head)                 8,957    10,889      51,463     59,163    13,130    17,033
Meat production ('000)              255       473       1,643      2,766       292        544
Sheep/goats
Total ('000 head)                 2,018     1,474      10,886      8,768     7,468      7,239
Meat production ('000)               70        50          37         32         6         10
Cattle
Total ('000 head)                 3,795     4,859      9,173       9,396     5,407      7,321
Meat production ('000)               50        80          36         41        10         14
Fisheries (freshwater culture)
Area ('000 ha)                       5.93     12.00      148.49     164.27     46.73      58.73
Production ('000 tons)               5.40     13.50       52.36     129.00     15.16      26.50



CHINA
THIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ABC Organization in Six Project Provinces
Guizhou         Sichuan           Yunnan           Anhui             Henan            Rubei
1985   1986    1985    1986    WT5    1986    1985    1986    1985    1986    1985    1986
ABC Offices
Provincial branch                                        I        I       1        1        1       1        1        1       1        1       1        1
Prefectural central subbranches /a                       9       9       19       19      17       17       16      16       17       17      14       14
County subbranches                                      82      82      225      185     124      124      82       74      137      135      81       79
ABC units on state-owned farms                           6     -/b        2      --       49      --         9     -         13       14     112      -
Business departments of central subbranches              2       2        5        8       2        3        7      15        9       9       12       18
Business offices                                       589     586   1,633   1,784   1,356   1,345        705      801   2,044   2.212   1,056   1,259
Savings offices                                          8     122      674   1,045       21       33       27     228      124     561       94      495
Staff Numbers
Provincial brancu                                      112      135     249      242     212      187      178     185      213      235     204      236
Prefectural central subbranches                        422     477   1,433   1,472       744      756      818     814   1,395   1,389       995   1,111
County subbranches                                   3.440   3,581  10,720   8,117   4.778   4,436   4,011   3,369   8,516   6,360   5,244   4,368
ABC units on state-owned farms                           6     -          2      -       215      -         60     -         74      -       775      -
Business department of central subbranches              76      88      168      276     142      206     202      397      403     492      369     480    an
Business offices                                    5,490   5,705  15,152  16,842   7,272   7,513   6,733   7,088  14,101  15,926  12,692  13,308    
Savings offices                                         46     257      -        -        71      108      88      267      258     551      291   1,061
Staff Composition
Managers and assistant managers                        255     247      656      688     350      343      304     321      542      553     331      405
Accountants                                          1,679   1,400   5.581   5,175   2,680   2,504   2,511   2,132   4,459   4,108   3,724   3,256
Statisticians and planners                             308      18   1,044       133     413       52     481       87      576      47      436      102
Auditors                                               351   -          709   -          101   -          465   -           372   -          382   -
Credit officers including agricultural,
industrial and comercial credit                   1,855   2,125   5,791   4,156   3,100   2,164   1,704   1,345   5,277   4,397   3,745   3,180
Savings officers                                       305     430   1,613   1,580       180      310     402      671      650     669   1,774   2,166
Cashiers                                            1,248   1,176   3,381   3,436   1,960   1,942   1,722   1,621   4,321   3,911   2,847   2,603
Teaching staff                                          29      60      221      279      66       62       47     102      170      288     259      224
Other /c                                             3,673   5,098  10,159  14,185  .9,647   5,982   4,557   6,371   8,931  12,167   7,40S   9,591
Total                                            9,703  10.554  29.155  29.632  18,497  13,359  12.193  12.650  25,298  26,140  20,904  21.527
Staff Qualifications
ABC:
University & college graduates and equivalency         111     308      562   1,252      156      401      329     792      404   1,160      -        706
Secondary vocational graduate and equivalency          706     869   2,706   3,163   1,026   1,335        731      942   1,261   1,613       -     2,342
Primary school graduates                             2,825   2,622  10,825  10,857   4,374   4,511   5,320   5.031   7,578   7,128           -     6,484
Below primary school graduate                       4,645   4,576  10,318  10,532   6,664   6,269   3,312   3,202   8,530   8,318            -     7,180
/a  Sichuan and Hubei each have one autonomous city central subbranch in addition to its prefecture-level central subbrancbes.
7--  indicates data not avallable.
7c- Other includes business officers (for ex., foreign affairs, trusts, RCC work, political work) other administrative and service employees.
Source:  Provincial ABCs.                                                                                                                                     1



AMN  4
CHIM
IH1RD RUMA  CREIT PROJBC
Consolidated ualince Sheet of the Aaric   urailaink of China  for the Sti Prosect Provtnces
(&as Of December 311 1965 and 196) to
Culthon         Sichuso         Yunnsan     Aohut       Dn.a            Hubel
1985 -rgl'    1985-   1986    1985   1986  1l955S' 1985   -1986   '1985   1986-
Sources of Founds
Deposits                                2,230  2,785   5,132   6,756  1,879  3,397  2,375   4,944   6,016  1,604   2,308
Local governaent funds                     19      34     177     220      60     78      80      82      110  1,293   1,326
State contrtbution (credit fund)          389    397   1,336   1,423    527    569    880   1,260   1,340    115          165
Interbank balances  b                   1,803    367   3,228   4,461       50     91  3,230   1,822   1,650  6,291   6,461
Accumulated net gain                       34     63      176     213  1,345    603    101       195      204    117      119
Other sources                               -      -        -       -       -      -       -   7,618   7,210      49      103
Total                                4.475  3.646  10.049  13.073  3.861  4.738  6.666  21.921  22.S30  9,469  10.4R2
Applicatton of Funds
Loana to rural commerctal and
tndustrial enterprises                1,634  1,998   6,242   6,907  2,150  2,463  4,760  10,310  10,980  6,625   6,794
Loans to township and village
and collective enterprises /d           264    357   2,444   3,661    583    822  1,614   1,114        490  2,482   3,196
Loans to state-owned agricultural
enterprises                              13     39      110     187    157    231       -        -       -       -       -
Loans to households                       101      94     112      109    257    284       -     566      690      -        -
Loans to rural credit cooperatives        267    307      407     419    329    450        -     123      200      -        -
Other loans                                46    576      332     414      99    158      96     495      290      -        -
Subtotal (loans)                     2.325  3.371   9,647  11.697  3.S75  4.408  6.470  12,608  12,650  9,107   9.990
Loans on behalf of other banks and
organitations                         2,080    174       48      74    134    170    196/e   498       640       -       -
Cash and other assets                      70    101      354   1,302    152    160       -   8,815   9,240    362       492
Other uses ic-                                              -               - 
Total                                4.475  3.646  10,049  13.073  3.861  4.738  6.666  21,921  22.530  9A469  10,482
Ja  Figures for 1986 are subject to audit.
/b  Includes borrowings from the People's Bank of China.
/c Includes special funds from the Coveroment for flood control and relief.
/d  Break-up of loans by type of subborrovers for Uubei ts not available.
/e  Includes cash mad other assets



CHINA
THIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Consolidated Income Statement of the Agricultural Bank of China. for the Six Project Provinces
(for the Year Ended December 31. 1985 and 1986) /a
(Y million)
Guizhou            Sichuan            Yunnan         Anhul           Henan               Rubel
1985    1986      1985      1986      1985    1986      1985       1985      1986      1985     196
Income
Interest on loans lb                            85.3   126.2       557.0     651.3   143.0   212.7    302.2         702.7     768.0   434.8      487.8
Income received for agency servlces              12.8   192.1       11.7      10.6    29.7    30.8         -Ic   --  3.3       12.1    87.9         -
Other income                                    120.2     2.4      453.6     439.3   170.4   261.8       73.3       984.6     768.8   462.8      699.7
Total                                       218.3   320.7   1,022.3   1,101.3   343.1   505.3    375.5    1,690.7   1,548.9   985.5   1,187.5
Expendlture
Interest paid on deposits                        18.5    17.1      100.4     129.9    42.2    84.8       96.3        78.8     145.7    84.3      124.9
Interest on bank loans and agency fees             -    204.5      637.6     579.5      1.5      1.0    161.5    1,291.5   1,113.9   705.1   }
Subsidies to RCCs in deficit                      1.5      -          -         -       3.0     2.5        -           -         -       3.5   }
Duasiness expenses including taxes /d             5.8     8.1       24.4      29.2   228.2   301.4         -         31.8      35.1       -    1
Salaries, etc.                                   10.6    17.5       27.5      34.4    13.0    14.0       16.8        16.7       19.1    30.3   1 943.1
Personnel-related (training etc.) expenses        1.7     1.7         -         -       3.6      4.1       -           -          -       _
Building rental and renovation                   12.8     2.3         -         -       0.8      1.5       -           -         -        -    I
Other                                           134.0     5.8       17.8       27.5     0.5      5.5       -         20.4      34.7    45.6   }
Subtotal                                    184.8   257.0      807.8      800.4   292.9   414.8    274.6    1,439.1   1,348.5   868.8   1,068.0
Net profit /e                                    33.5    63.7      214.5     300.9    50.2    90.5    100.9         251.6     200.4   116.7       119.5
Total                                       218.3   320.7   1,022.3   1,101.3   343.1   505.3    375.5    1,690.7   1,548.9   985.5   1,187.5
/a Figures for 1986 are subject to audit.
75F Includes subsidies received from the government.
7F Includes interest received on loans to other banks.
7d Yunnan figures include Interest paid on bank loans snd agency fees.
W   Figures for Henan require verification by ABC.
Source: ABC provtncial branches. Some adjustments have been made to ensure consistency In tabulation.
I!0



- 53 -                                    ANEX 5
CHINA
THIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Indicative Investment Program (By Activity and Province)
(Y million)
lmln      of
Activity                    Guizhou; Sichuan  Yunnan  Anhui  Henan  Hubei  Total  equiv.  total
Tree Crops
Fruits                        -        52      32       15     40      18     157   42.4    12.6
Rubber                        -         -     130        -      -       -     130   35.1    10.5
Tea                           -         -      50        -      -       -      50   13.5      4.0
Coffee                        -         -      28        -      -       -      28    7.6      2.3
Gallnut                      14                 -        -      -       -      14    3.8      1.1
Others                        -         -      40        -      6       -      46   12.4      3.7
Subtotal                  14        52     280       15     46      18     425  114.9    34.2
Livestock
Leanmeat pig                  -        22       8        5     14      13      62   16.8      5.0
Pasture dev. & sheep         37         -        2       -     10       -      49   13.2      3.9
Goats                         -         -       -        5     14       1      20    5.4      1.6
Cattle (beef/dairy)          20         -       -        5     14       -      39   10.5      3.1
Poultry                       -         7       -        -     12       6      25    6.8      2.0
Other livestock               -         -       -        -     10       -      10    2.7      0.8
Subtotal                  57        29      10       15     74     20      205   55.4    16.5
Aquaculture
tishponds                    15        32       -        -     45      10     102   27.6      8.2
Ri.yer ffsheries              -         -        2       -      -       -       2    0.5      0.2
Cage fisheries                -        12       -        -      4       -      16    4.3      1.3
Others                        -         -        1       3      -       -       4    1.1      0.3
Subtotal                  15        44       3        3     49      10     124   33.5    10.0
Agroprocessing
Fruit storage & proc.         -        30       2        6     40      20      98   26.5      7.9
Neat & other livestock        7        47       -        9     24      20     107   28.9      8.6
Oilseeds                      -        37       -        8     20       -      65   17.6      5.2
Feed mills                    -        25       -        8     15      10      58   15.7      4.7
Tea processing                -         -      15        -      -       -      15    4.1      1.2
Rubber processing             -         -      43        -      -      -       43   11.6      3.5
Others                       18        32       2       10     28      13     103   27.8      8.3
Subtotal                  25       171      62      41    127      63      489  132.2    39.3
Total                    111       296     355       74    296    111   1,243  335.9   100.0
$ million equivalent           30        80      96       20     80      30     336
Z of total investment cost      9        24      28        6     24       9     100



ANN=X 6
Page 1
- 54 -
CHINA
THIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Rehabilitation of Tea in Yunnan Province
Technical Guidelines for Subproject Implementation
1.        ABC would adopt the following guidelines in approving subloans for
tea rehabilitation. Prior to the commencement of the lending program, ABC
would also obtain an assurance from the Yunnan Provincial Government and the
concerned county governments that in assessing the technical feasibility of
tea rehabilitation proposals, and their subsequent implementation, they would
adopt the following guidelines.
2.        Planting Material.  In Yunnan province, ninety percent of tea is
planted from seed, yet plants developed from vegetatively propagated (clonal)
material have the highest levels of productivity and pest tolerance. The
widespread use of clonal material is constrained by problems of inefficient
multiplication and distribution of clonal materials. Under the project,
substantially more clonal material will need to be supplied, therefore
propagation methods and distribution must be improved. A suitable variety is
currently available in county research stations, which should be distributed
to selected tea gardens in the project area, in limited numbers in order to
attain wider distribution. Cuttings can be taken from these "mother bushes"
in 3 to 4 years time and multiplication plots can be established from them,
thus expanding the supply of clonal material. Meanwhile, priority should be
given to supplying clonal material available in the project area or nearby
areas (especially state farms) to tea gardens proposed for rehabilitation.
3.        Plant density and spacing.  Plant densities in recently established
tea gardens in Yunnan are as high as 180,000 plants/ha. Spacing between
plants is also low: 0.1 m between plants; between bushes or bunches of plants
(hills), about 0.3 m.;and between rows, 1.5 to 2 m. Internationally adopted
plant density for optimum yield under manual harvesting is between 12,000 and
23,000 plants/ha with spacing between rows varying from about 0.95 to 1.20
m. and that between plants in the row varying from 0.45 to 0.6 m. Wider
spaced individual plants in a row (as opposed to a multiple number of plants
per hill) should be introduced with training of plants to form bushes.
4.        Land Selection.  Tea gardens rehabilitated by the project should
conform to the following: land gradient should not be more than 30 degrees;
effective soil depth should be more than 1 m.; soil pH must be lower than 6.0;
organic matter (carbon) content of the soil should be above 3%; and selected
tea gardens should be located below an elevation of 2,100 m. Improved
cultural practices must be used to minimise soil erosion.
5.        Preliminary Processing.  Currettly, preliminary tea processing is
primitive when compared to the practices in other major tea producing



_ 55 -                            ANNEX 6
-                     ~~~~~~~Page 2
countries. Factory layouts arp generally crude and need to be streamlined to
facilitate more efficient handling of tea. Withering of green leaf presently
takes place in natural conditions, though use of troughs fitted with hot and
ambient airflows, is more efficient in terms of reduced labor requirement,
less handling of leaf, and better use of factory space. Rolling, fermentation
and drying operations and storage of processed tea also require considerable
improvement to monitor and control moisture content, and preserve the quality
of processed tea.
6.        Extension.  In Yunnan, county-level sorting factories have
establishea Tea Research/Experimental Stations which undertake research in
productivity, breeding, selection and testing of new, varieties. They also
carry out fertilizer, irrigation, and plant density trials. For dissemination
of research findings, county sorting factories employ extension workers who
are stationed at preliminary processing factories generally located near the
tea gardens. In project areas, it would be ensured through terms and
conditions of subloan approval that county-level sorting factories deploy
sufficient numbers of extension workers trained by such institutions as the
Tea Academy in Fenqing county.
7.        Upgrading of County Research Stations.  The county research stations
are generally ill-equipped and ill-staffed to carry out research and field
trials. As a part of the proposed project, Yunnan Provincial Government
should upgrade research stations in project counties by providing these with
adequate equipment and staff and expand their mandate to include provision of
research support to collective farms.



ANNEX 7
- 56 -                             Page i
CHINA
THIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Review of Gallnut Production Program in Guizhou
Terms of Reference
1.        Objectives.  A review of the first phase of ABC's credit program for
development of gallnut production in Guizhou (5,000 ha) would assist ABC in
determining whether this program should be extended to additional areas as
proposed by the provincial government. The second phase of the program is
plsaned to be implemented during 1990-92, on about 40,000 ha in 34 counties in
the following prefectures: Zunyi, Tongren, Qiandongren, Qiannan and Bijie.
The review would be completed by the end of 1989.
2.        Guizhou has both climatic conditions highly favorable for gallnut
production and large tracts of deforested mountainous lands for which no other
financially attractive use has been identified. The Gallnut production
program would help increase employment and per capita income in poorer areas
and improve the environment. Consistent with ongoing economic reforms, the
Government proposal is to implement the program as a comuercial activity using
institutional finance, rather than budgetary funds, to ensure greater
efficiency in resource use and cost recovery. However for ABC, this is a new
type of credit activity. ABC would therefore use the review to reassess
financing of gallnut production and based on its experience with the first
phase, it would choose whether or not to embark on a larger program.
3.        The main concerns of the review would be as follows:
(a) Reinforce technical package. Based on pilot projects in Zunyi and
Tongren prefectures, the provincial Forestry Research Institute has
developed a technical package for increasing gallnut yields. It
defines criteria for land selection, plant population per ha,
management of clover cover crops, species suitable as summer hosts
for gall aphids, and moss culture. Using experience with the first
phase, and supplemented by additional research already under way,
the review would reasses4 the efficiency of these parameters.
(b) Assess adequacy of extension arrangements. The proposed review
would assess extension arrangements and suggest improvements that
must be made for the expanded program, as well as for the first
phase. Development of gallnut production bases, if extended to the
additional 40,000 ha, would involve participation of some 10,000
households. Responsibility for land survey, the supply of planting
material (sumac) and technical assistance to households in planting
and maintenance of trees and moss culture would be given to county-
level offices of the Forestry Bureau. The Bureau would assign
specific staff for this purpose, the pro rata cost of which would be
borne by households and paid for through ABC loans. The Forestry
Bureau has already begun training its extension staff in selected
counties.



-57 -ANNE  7
Page 2
(c) Evaluate ABC credit administration procedures and costs. The review
would assess the effectiveness of subloan management including the
transaction costs involved in the administration of the credit
program and adequacy of spreads to ABC. ABC's county-level
branches, through the network of business offices at the township
level, would be responsible for subloan appraisal, disbursement,
supervision and collection. On an average, each county branch would
be required to handle about 200 subloan cases, with subloan
collection responsibility delegated to lower-level offices. The
proposed project would provide training to the local credit staff
(Annex 10). Subloan appraisal would be handled by ABC in collabo-
ration with the Forestry Bureau while subloan collection would be
handled in collaboration with primary processing plants which would
deduct the amounts due to ABC from the purchase price payable to
households for gallnuts supplied. The review would comment on the
adequacy of these arrangements. At the time of the review in 1989,
most subloans would be in grace periods and, therefore, the actual
collection performance can be assessed only in later years.
(d) Determine need for, and location of additional processing facili-
ties. Primary processing of gallnut involves simple hot water
treatment to extract gallic acid in factories located in production
areas. The first phase of the gallnut production program would be
supported by already established processing facilities which might
require modest expansion or rehabilitation. However, if the gallnut
production program is expanded, resources would be needed to expand
the existing processing plants and to build new plants. The review
would assess the need for and location of additional primary proces-
sing capacities. A chemical plant at Zunyi undertakes multiple
processing of gallnut to produce a variety of products including
industrial tannic acid and tannic acid derivatives used in food
processing, pharmaceutical and leather industries. This plant has
reached its capacity and must now sell surplus gallnuts procured
from households without processing. The government now proposes to
construct another factory at Zunyi with a capacity of processing
10,000 tons of gallnut annually. The review would address the
feasibility of financing the new processing factory through the
proposed project.
(e) Market prospects. Increased production of gallnut from the first
phase of development is expected to be fully absorbed by the domes-
tic market. If, however, gallnut production is expanded to an
additonal 40,000 ha, longer term prospects of domestic and export
demand and prices for gallnut products must be assessed in depth.
This task would be handled through the proposed review.
4.        Timing and Methodolgy.  Primary responsibility for planning and
conducting the review would be that of ABC. Technical aspects of the project
would be reviewed by the Guizhou Provincial Forestry Bureau, and the Forestry
Research Institute, with support from local and overseas consultants. ABC, in
consultation with the Association, would finalize the methodology, content,



ANNEX 7
- 58 -                              Page 3
and timing for the studies by June 1988 and would complete it in several
phases by the end of 1989. The IDA supervision missions would assist ABC in
completing the Review and determining the size of the additional program that
could be financed by the project.



AMNEX 8
-59 -                             Page I
CHINA
THIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Review of Pasture Development and Sheep Breeding Program
in Guizhou
Terms of Reference
1.        Objectives.  A review of the first phase of the pasture and sheep
development program (11,500 ha) would be cirried out in 1989 to assist ABC in
determining whether the project-assisted credit program should be extended to
additional areas and, if so, what should be the size and phasing of the
expanded program. The provincial government has proposel,for the second
phase, development of 20,000 ha of Class I and II lands.- This review would
also evaluate suitability of Class III lands for productive pasture
development and comment on any improvements needed in the technical package,
support services, organization for project implementation, marketing of wool
and meat, need for additional processing facilities for meat and skins, and
ABC's subloan management. The eight counties selected for the program would
include Huajie, Heshang, Dawan, Nayong, Veining, Zhijin, Shuicheng, and
Pmaxian.
2.        Technical Package.  The first phase of the program would use the
recently developed technical package which was based on the results of a pilot
project implemented by the provincial Agriculture Department and the Bureau of
Animal Husbandry in Weining county. Specifically, the review would focus on
assessing, with regard to pasture establishment, the performance of selected
varieties of pasture species in counties other than Weining, and current
parameters for seeding rates, seed treatment, fertilizer rates and timing of
application, plant protection measures and expected pattern of production. In
pasture management, the review would pay attention to suggested norms for
annual fertilizer requirements, grazing strategy and need for fencing, fodder
conservation and replanting techniques. With regard to sheep development and
management, the review would assess the standards for flock composition, the
production calendar, and nutjitional and disease control issues. The review
would assess the results of an experimental area of Class III land that would
be developed by the the Bureau of Animal Husbandry to test the ability of such
pastures to sustain profitable sheep production activity and recommend whether
these lands should be included in ABC's project-assisted credit program.
1/   Lands for pasture development have been classified by soil depth and
fertility into three broad groups, each requiring fertilizer strategies
to establish productive pastures. In terms of nitrogen fertilizers, Class
I land would require annually 10-45 kg of urea/ha, Class II lands, 46-150
kg urealha. and Class III, 150-300 kg urea/ha.



ANNEX 8
-60 -                              Page 2
3.        Suport Services.  Based on experience with the first phase of the
project, the review would assess whether the existing support-services system
would be adequate for expanding the program and if not, the steps needed to
strengthen it. Responsibility for support services to households would rest
with the Agriculture Department and the Bureau of Animal Husbandry.
Currently, support services are adequate: the eight counties together have 24
animal husbandry, disease prevention and grassland stations; 107 district-
level veterinary stations; and 828 township level neasant-run veterinary
seations. The province has strong research capability in animal husbandry,
sheep breeding, breed improvement and extension. The review would recommend
any additional steps that should be taken to support the expanded pasture and
sheep development program.                 t
4.        Organization and Management.  The review would assess the
effectiveness of the organizational arrangements used for the first phase of
the program. Pasture development would be undertaken by individual households
on plots of 20 ha each. At the township and county levels, collective
organizations with an independent economic status would arrange supply of
inputs and sale of wool and sheep for member households. These collective
organizations would also provide a liaison between participating households
and the technical staff of the Agriculture Department and the Bureau of Animal
Husbandry.
5.        Marketing and Processing.  The review would assess marketing and
processing arrangements for wool and meat that would be produced by the second
phase of the program, and look at the technical design and specifications of
additional meat processing facilities that might be needed in the province.
6.        ABC Cre it Progra G. Civen the area-development nature of the
program, much coordination would be needed between ABC's county level branches
and counterpart offices of the Agriculture Department and the Bureau of Animal
Husbandry with regard to subloan appraisal, disbursement, supervision, and
collection. The review would assess how effective these arrangements are and
what improvements must be made for the second phase of the program.
7.        Timing and Methodology.  Primary responsibility for planning and
conducting the review would be that of ABC, with participation of the
Agriculture Department and the Bureau of Animal Husbandry. ABC would arrange
support from local and overseas consultants. ABC would finalize the
methodology, content and timing of various studies in specific aspects of the
review by the end of June 1988. The review would be completed by the end of
1989. IDA supervision missions would assist ABC in completing the review and
determining the size of the additional program that could be financed by the
project.



ANNE 9
-61 -                              Page 1
CHINA
THIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Pilot Project for Onlending through Rural Credit Cooperatives
1.   Criteria for RCC Access to Project funds
ABC would select a rural credit cooperative (RCC) to participate in
the project, on the basis of the following criteria:
(a) A participating RCC shall have a satisfactory financial condition as
determined by a recent ABC audit;
(b) A participating RCC's own funds (stocks, members' contribution,
balance of undistributed profit and free reserves) shall not be less
than 6X of the total loans outstanding as of December 31 each year;
(c) A participating RCC's past-due loans shall not exceed 202 of the
total loans outstanding, and past-due loans in arrears for more than
3 years (which are not covered by bad debts reserves), shall not
exceed 5% of the outstanding loans as of December 31 of each year;
(d) A participating RCC shall have complied with minimum reserve
requirements (generally RCC redeposit of 20-30% of its total
deposits, with ABC) and its most recent annual operation shall be in
profit; and
(e) A participating RCC shall have at least one credit officer trained
in the project appraisal courses offered by ABC.
2.   Onlending Terms: RCC t0 Subborrowers.
(a)  Eligible subprojects.  Subprojects in agriculture including tree
crops, livettock, aquaculture and agroprocessing sponsored by
individual households and collectives will be financed by the
project;
(b) Subloan size. Generally, a subloan financed by the project funds
shall not exceed Y 200,000;
(c) Interest Rates. Subborrowers shall pay interest on subloans at the
participating RCC's prevailing rates for similar subloans for
similar purposes, currently ranging between 8-11% p.a.;
(d) Subborrower contribution. Subborrower contribution to the project
cost will be at least 30X;



ANNEX 9
-62 -                                Page 2
(e)  Subloan maturities.  Subloan maturities will be determined by a
participating RCC on the basis of an estimated cash flow of the
subproject financed, generally within 7 years (to be extended up to
10 years for tree crop loans which will be rare in RCC lending under
the project) and shall provide for appropriate grace periods;
(f) Collateral. Subloans will be secured and guaranteed consistent with
current banking practices and ABC/RCC regulations;
(g) Supervision. A participating RCC will be responsible for
supervising the use of subloans disbursed and their collection on
due dates; and
(h) Reporting. A participating RCC will submit to ABC reports and
information on subloans which ABC may reasonably request.
3.   Onlending Terms: ABC to eligible RCCs.
(a) ABC loans to RCCs. ABC will onlend up to 502 of the subproject cost
to a participating RCC.  ABC loans will be fully funded by IDA
assistance onlent by MOF.  Generally, no RCC will receive project
funds more than 30Z of its average outstanding loans for the
preceding three years;
(b) Interest Rate. Interest on ABC loans to RCCs will be at ABC's
prevailing rates for similar loans to RCCs, currently fixed at 6.48X
p.a.;
(c) Repayment period. ABC will prescribe the same repayment schedule
for its loans to RCCs as fixed by a RCC to a subborrower, with a
suitable grace period; and
(d) Rollover. ABC will hold all repayments received from RCCs in a
separate account at the provincial level and use amounts available
in this account (after allowing for repayments due on IDA funds) for
further lending to eligible RCCs, on similar terms and conditions.



ANN   10
- 63-                              Page 1
CHINA
THIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project-assiisted Staff Training Program
Objectives
1.        The main focus of the proposed staff training program would be to
upgrade the faculty of ABC's three national-level Senior Staff Colleges at
Tianjin, Changchun (Jilin) and Wuhan (Hubei). These three colleges would, in
turn, be responsible for developing new, inservice training programs for ABC's
senior management persdnnel and for teachers at ABC's 170 secondary vocational
and staff training schlols. The project would support local and overseas
training of core faculty members of the three colleges in such subjects as
project appraisal and management, agricultural enterprise management,
agricultural marketing, agricultural economics, rural finance policies, bank
management, and international banking practices. The project would also
provide the three colleges with teaching and copying equipment and reference
books and other materials in banking, finance and management. By upgrading
the standards of instruction in its schools throughout the country, ABC would
expect to see a gradual improvement in overall staff skills and thus, also, in
operations generally.
2.        To meet the needs of the proposed project, ABC has already begun
training its credit and technical staff in the six provinces in project
appraisal, and monitoring and evaluation.  Teachers for these programs are
drawn from staff trained under the First and Second Rural Credit Projects.
Training of project-related staff is expected to be completed by the end of
1988 (Table 1).
Staff Training Needs
3.        As shown in Table 2, ABC's in-house structure for staff training
comprises: (a) three national-level Senior Staff Colleges; (b) 55 secondary
vocational schools; (c) 112 staff training schools and (d) three RCC secondary
vocational schools. In addition to offering two-year and various short-term
courses through these institutions, ABC organizes courses taught by the TV
University (TMU) and holds, on an ad hoc basis, short-term courses at its own
county subbranches. ABC has also been training some of its senior staff in
banking programs offered by the People's Bank and local finance and management
colleges; however, the latter programs can accommodate only a limited number
of ABC staff. To meet its own large training requirements, ABC must therefore
expand its in-house training capabilities and make increasing use of the
TVU. The project would address some of the major concerns of ABC's staff
training activities as follows.
(a) Raising General Levels of Education. In 1986, ABC staff totalled
about 387,000, an increase of 36X over the total of 285,000 recorded
in 1983. Although current recruitment policies require candidates



-64-                   ~~~~~ANNEX 10
- 64 -                        Page 2
to have a secondary school diploma, only half of existing staff meet
this requirement (401 are upper secondary graduates and 101
graduates of post-secondary schools, colleges, and universities),
while the other half, or 190,000 people, have completed no more than
a lower secondary school (Grades 7-9) education. Most of this
latter group consists of pre-1983 recruits, including primarily
personnel transferred to ABC at the time of its separation from the
PBC. The main emphasis of AbC's current training activities is to
raise the educational level of this group to the minimum upper
secondary standard. ABC's 55 secondary vocational schools are now
graduating over 10,000 staff annually from their two-year, inservice
training programs. Another 10,000 staff each year are completing
secondary equivalency programs which are offered through ABC-
sponsored correspondence courses and the 112 ABC staff training
schools. To accelerate staff upgrading, ABC is seeking to expand
school facilities and to increase the number and quality of trained
teachers.
(b) More Effective Use of TV University Programs. Of significance in
raising both general educational standards and post-secondary
vocational training are the seventy-five TVU programs which were
introduced by ABC in 1983. By 1986, some 7,000 staff had graduated
from a three-year, part-time, post-secondary program in monetary
theory and banking, organized by various provincial TVU centres in
collaboration with ABC schools which provided residential facilities
and teacher assistance. Another 3,000 had graduated from a two-year
course which is being offered on a continuing basis. ABC proposes
more extensive use of the TVU to supplement the various levels of
training offered by ABC's own schools. ABC recognizes that the TVU
provides a means to train large numbers quickly, subject to the
availability of well-trained teachers and well- developed course
packages. The project-supported training program, specifically the
training of teachers and introduction of new course materials, would
assist ABC in expanding its TVU programs.
(c) Development Training. A small number of senior managers, including
provincial and prefecture-level branch and credit managers,
currently receive training in short-term courses at the three ABC
colleges. To help ABC make the transition from an administrative
organ to a competitive banking enterprise, more of this
professional-level training is needed, especially in such
specialized subjects as finance and banking, project appraisal,
market analysis, and enterprise management. However, expansion of
course offerings is constrained by lack of enough trained teachers.
(d) Quiality of Trainers. The three colleges at Tianjin, Changchun and
Wuhan responsible for teacher training have been in existence only
since 1984. Classroom and dormitory facilities constructed to date
are adequate for current enrollments and further expansion is well
under way. The faculty consists mainly of graduates of general
programs in economics, banking, agricultural financing, political
theory, English and Chinese. The Tianjin College has been



- 65 -                          ANNEX 10
Page 3
designated by ABC as the lead institution for staff training. This
college collaborated with EDI in conducting a recent course in
Agricultural Financing (1986) given to the ABC staff. The college
at Changchun is the largest in teaching staff and student body, with
a notably varied curriculum. Each college is expected to build upon
its present strengths to develop a national reputation for
excellence in a particular field: Tianjin for teacher and senior
management personnel training and training in English; Changchun in
use of computer technology; and Wuhan in credit appraisal. All
three colleges offer one or more post-secondary vocational courses
in bank management, rural credit, computer applications and
personnel management, a variety of short courses, and language
training. Current combined capacity of the three colleges to train
teachers and managerial staff is about 500 graduates per year, but
expansion to 1,200 is expected by 1990. Major constraints to
increasing enrollments and improving curricula are the inadequacy of
and overlap in teaching materials, lack of enough teaching equipment
and the insufficient number of faculty trained in specialized
subjects (para. 1).
4.        Teaching Material and Equipment.  Teaching materials available at
ABC's 170 schools and three colleges, while adequate in quantity, are too
narrowly focussed on traditional accounting/ banking methods, give too little
attention to specific local economic problems, and make inadequate use of the
case study approach. ABC plans to upgrade the standard of teaching materials
by importing books from abroad and developing local case studies with the help
of Chinese and overseas consultants. With consultant support and drawing upon
faculty from the three colleges, ABC would establish an acquisitions
committee to coordinate purchase of new teaching materials. This aspect of
ABC's training activities would be reviewed during project supervision.  The
proposed project would provide foreign exchange to enable ABC to aquire
essential books and teaching materials from abroad, while using local
resources to develop case studies for courses supported by the project.  To
support improvements in curricula and quality of teaching, the three
institutions need additional teaching equipment as well as printers and
copiers for production of supplemental classroom materials.
Project-assisted Activities
5.        The proposed project would finance the following activites which
would directly benefit the colleges at Tianjin, Changchun and Wuhan (details
in Tables 3 and 4).
(a)  Facult  Training. The project would finance a brief study tour
abroad about 1 month) for four ABC management staff to make
arrangements with overseas educational institutions for the proposed
faculty training. About 24 faculty members selected from the three
colleges (including ABC senior management staff who often teach at
these colleges) would receive specialized training abroad. The
project would also finance fees in foreign exchange for eight
faculty members to enter or continue an M.B.A. program offered by
Oklahoma City University in collaboration with the Tianjin
Commercial College in Tianjin.



- 66-                           ANNEX 10
Page 4
(b) Consultants. The project would finance visits of nine overseas
education consultants for periods of one month to one year. Some (3
or so) would teach English while others would prepare and teacht (i)
courses for teachers and managerial staff in project appraisal,
market analysis, and small enterprise management, with teaching
techniques included in each course, and (ii) a short course in agro-
industry for project managers and credit staff drawn from the six
project provinces.
(c) Equipment and materials. The project would finance teaching
equipment, library resources, and facilities for reproducing
training materials for the three colleges. The main items would
include language laboratories, film projectors, a television
receiver, printing and duplicating equipment; and books, journals
and training materials.
(d) Training for Teachers and Managers. Through project-supported
programs of local and overseas training as well as imported
equipment, the three colleges would develop 22 courses to train
about 880 teachers and 12 courses to upgrade the skills of about 480
senior manAgers of ABC. The newly trained teachers would be
expected to train teachers in ABC's cadre and secondary vocational
schools. By 1990, these schools would have conducted a total of
about 120 courses for some 4,800 middle-level managers and key
operational staff and thereafter they would plan about 100 courses
annually with a total participation of 5,000.
6.        Monitoring and Evaluation of Training Activities.  ABC would use
course evaluations by participants and undertake random surveys of trained
teachers and staff in years two and four of the proposed project to assess the
impact of training on their productivity, efficiency, and quality.



- 67 -
AANE 10
Table 1
CHINA
THIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Training of Project-Related Staff /a
in Project Appraisal and M & E
A: No. of classes
B: No. of staff
Province                   1987               1988            Total
A       B           A      B       A         B
Guizhou                  2     150          3     300       5      450
Sichuan                  7     450          5     250      12      700
Yunnan                   6     500          4     300       5      800
Anhui                    4     340          2     170       6      510
Henan                    3     310          2     150       5      460
Hubei                    4     215          3     180       7      395
Total                26   19965         19   1,350      45    3,315
Note: ABC expects to increase the number of classes so that average
number of participants per class could be reduced to about 55
from currently proposed 74.



ANN 1i0
- 68 -                ~~~~Table 2
- 68 -
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT III PROJECT
ABC Training institutions as of May 1987
Type            Nuober    Location    Financed by        Function
Senior Staff       3    Tianjln        ABC. EQ        Full-time 2-year
Colleges              Changchun                     post-secondary
Vuhan                         vocational school
program and various
short-term courses
Secondary         55    In lmportant   Provincial     Full-time 2-year
Vocational            cities nation-   Branches     secondary vocational
Schools               wide                          school courses and
various short-term
courses
Staff Training   112    In important   Provincial     Short-term courses
Schools               districts        Branches
not served by
above types
RCC Secondary      3    Xliaogan,      Provincial     Same function as
Vocational            Hubei; Jiiaing   Branches     secondary vocational
Schools               Zhejiang;                     school, but with all
Linyi, Shandong               2-year residents being
RCC employees
Subtotal     173
TV Universities   75    throughout     Provincial     Full-timc 2-year
China            Branches     post-secondary
vocational program
Total       248
ABC also conducts a large number of short-term courses at and below the County
level through China for operational staff.



THIRD MUIAL C,IT PIOJECT
Tralntnt In ABC Proge d for Ptoject Suoport. 1988-90
no. of                    V0. of                                                                 USS'00                  Foreige
parsons                  courseo      Length                                        Cot  per    Total                    ae   of
Item                                  Tear       (cet.)        Location    (eat.)       (cve.)                 Subjects              unlt (eat.)  coot  Local   Poreigo  totl
Training for faclty of the           (198)            (4)       (Abroad)       -    ( so. visit)        (TrAinig arrangeent.)             20        20        0       20  100
Tianjin, OCangehun and IWtn  (TCM)  19S8             10          "           10       Vario                   Various              (See Table 4) 120       tb      120  100
Senior Staff Colleges /a             1989            7                        7          "                       0                       -       165               165  100
1989            8        TaSin          8         1 yer                    nu                                64          f     6    100
1990            7        Abroad         7        Various                 Various                    -       165        b      165  100
Traimrs training *t ICI                1988           400         TCW          10        2 so.         Various, with emphasi on            8        80       S0        0  0
College /c                                                                                         credit appraisal (especially
project appraiSal) and market
analySic
1989          320                       8                                                                    64       64        0  0          1
1990          160           "           4                                   U                                32       32        0  0          Cy
Senior mnagera training at TCW         1988           120          "            3          "                                   "                    24       24        0   0         1
Collegas/d                           1989           160                      4                                                           "        32       32        0   0
1990          200           "           5                                   "                       "        40       40        0   0
Subtotal, except TCI faculty                   1.360                     34                                                                   806      272      534 166
md-level managers trainig         1988,1989,1990   4,840    Staff traiig   121           2 so.          Manly credit apprai"l              8       968      968        0  0
at otber school. le                                            cboo.c               (2 weeks to   (especially project appraisal)
4 so.)           and market anlysi
Total except 1CM faculty                       6.200                     155                                                                1.774/b  1.240      534  30
/a  Roferred to as T, C and V. th_se Are the ABC Senior Staff Collegs at Tianujin, Oangehun and W9ah.  See Table 4 for details.
i Uodetermined anount for temporary replacement of faculty while abroad.
Ueavier in the first two years becaus of priority for the *Sx project provines.
Senior managers are defined as provincial branch managers (sad credit mnagrs If other than the manager) sad central subbranch (prefectural) mnaga e and credit managers.
Mid-lewl  1anager are defined as county subbranch mangers and credit _angr s.
if  oames absorption by colleges of slaries of faculty members wbile on study leave, as well as ay coat of cbhn   of residene.
Dfiers from the foreign excbang  amnt sbown In Part I of Table 4 because NU students are not considered as "Traiaing Abroad" in Table 4.
Additionally, ABC would Iacur a cost of approximately US$1.2 million on infratructure facilities including cl"srom and dormitory costruction.
II!0



,ANN 10
- 70 -
CHINA
TIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
foreitn Exchange Component for ABC Training Pr.posed for Projeet Financtng. 1988-90
No. of                                    Coat (eat.)
Ite"                                     Year       persons  Duration         Location          (U08*000)
1. Training Abroad
Project appraisal and manageewnt                  1988           4    4 months   Developed country Is        48
Agricultural enterprise management                1988           3    4 months    Developed country          36
Agricultural marketing                            1988           3   4 months    Developed country           36
Agricultural economics                            1989           3    1 year       Developed country         70/b
Rural finnsce market policies                     1989           4    1 year       Developed country         95
Bonk management                                   1990           4    1 year            Rolland              95
Practice of tnternational banking                 1990           3    1 year        United Kingdom           ?/c
Investigation and arrangements                    1988           4    1 month           Vartous              20d
Subtotal                                                   28                                          470
2. Activities In Ciina
English tistruction                          1988,1989,1990      3    1 year        Tianjin College          60/e
Advanced business management                      1989           5    1 year        Tianjin C.C. /f          40
Advanced accounting                               1989           3    1 year         Tianjin C.C.            24
eWm courses Is
Project appraisal
(lbe investment dectsion                        1989           1    1 month       Tianjin College          10
Mathods of market aralysis                      1990           l    Im onth       Tianjin College          10
Township and rural enterprise management        1990           1    1 Sonth       Tianjin Collee           10
New course /h
Agro-industry problems                          1988           3    1 month       Tianjin College          20
Subtotal                                                   17                                          174
3. Equtsent and Materials                                        No. of items
Liingu labor tory (36 places)                     1988           1                  Tianjin College          40
Language laboratory (portable type) 1t            1988           2                 Other 2 Colleges          20
nFl  projector (16 mm) Li                         1988           1                        /k                 is
Television receiver, large screen                 1988           3                                            a
Overhead projector                                1988           3                                            a
Printing and reproducing equipment                1988           3                                          150
Books, journals and training materials            1988           -                                          210
Subtotal                                                                                               451
Total                                                                                                1.095
/a To be determined on the basis of prefe*ence, subject availability, and language spoken. Expected to be minly
English-speaking, so cost estimates are based on the United States, which seems to be generally preferred. Western
Europe estimated as about the same cost.
Pb Possible special arrangement with Ohio State University might reduce cost.
c One for international trade and finance, and two for financing of international trade and International bakiiug,
includiag a sustr attacbient for each.
d  Not for training. For assessment of specific training opportunities In a few developed countries in the designated
subjects and for selecting and arranging such tratning. One person from each college, with the possible addition of
one from ABC headquarters.
/e astassu (a) a standard language laboratory at Tianjin Senior Staff College, (b) that subsistence Is poaid in local
currency, and (c) that the native-English speakers needed as class leaders will be available in the city of Tianjin
and paid in local currency.
f  Oklaho_ City University (USA) offers an MBA degree in collaboration with the nearby Tianin Commercial College;
Tianjin Senior Staff College has an agreement with the Tianjin Comercial College to send sona faculty members to
the course for a fee; includes 2 montbs in the USA. Assumes absorption by ABC Colleges of salaries of faculty on
study leave, as well as cost of any change tn residence.
/g  For faculty of the three ABC Colleges and other ABC trainers. Main course to be given by an Imported expert, with
subequent courses given by faculty of the tbree Colleges, with the expectation that they will spread to lowr
levels as rapidly as possible. These courses must each contain a few sessions on techniques of training. The tree
courses listed as suggestions; other titles could be "Feasibility Studies," "International Agricultural Product Nhr-
kets," "Credit  anageamet." and "Financial Statement Analysis."  Cost estimte allows for one onth for preparation
of the new course and one month for course session.
/  Mainly for branch and subbranch managers who are users of information about *gro-industry enterprises in their areas
but who are not preparing to become practitioners5aTo for trainers who would carry the course to lower-level
training institutions.
It Not yet requested by AMC. Suggested as method of greatly improving teaching of Englisb at Changchun and Wuhan
Colleges, at lower cost than fixed installation. Changehun Collegeas claim to be able to acquire a language
laboratory without foreign exchange wss not investigated as to source or quality.
O Coatible type. Fuimo 9356 was requested by ABC.
Allocation of item  other than language laboratory to be made by ABC headquatters among the thre  Colleges.



-71 -                            ANNEX 11
Page 1
CHINA
THIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ABC: In-house Studies in Systems Improvement
Terms of Reference
1.        The following gives details of the studies that would be undertaken
by ABC as a part of the proposed project. These concern ABC's loan approval
policies and procedures; resources for longer term lending; subloan collection
and write-offs; transaction costs of ABC lending; enterprise financing;
increased deposit mobilization; and institutional development of the RCCs.
The studies would assist ABC in evaluating the recent measures taken in above
aspects of its operations; and in determining the scope of and an action plan
for future initiatives. Though the proposed studies would relate mainly to
ABC operations, these would take into account recommendations made b1, the Bank
Group and the Government in the recent Finance and Investment Study._
ABC's loan approval policies and procedures
2.        This study would broadly include the following aspects of ABC's loan
policies and procedures:
(a)  Credit plan management.  The sttdy would assess the current systems
of annual credit plan preparation and implementation in ABC, and how
these could be improved in order to channel resources to more
efficient investments as envisaged by ongoing financial sector
reforms. As a part of its credit planning function, the People's
Bank sets quantitative restrictions on amounts of credit annually
provided by each bank. As the financial sector develops, the
People's Bank is expected to pursue monetary policies which would
increasingly substitute indirect methods of credit control for
direct intervention. However, for the next several years, ABC
lending would continue to be governed by the credit limits set by
the People's Bank and the underlying credit allocation plans
prepared by ABC branches which earmark credit for specific
activities, allocated by province down to townships, and often by
subborrowers.
(b)  Longer-term lending.  Over 97% of ABC's lending is extended on a
short-term basis (upto one year). Longer term lending is usually
for equipment and fixed assets generally for periods of up to three
years. ABC is constrained in financing longer term investments
because of limited availability of longer-term resources and lack of
1/   See, The World Bank, " China: Finance and Investment", Report No.
6445-CIA dated June 11,1987.



- 72 -                          ANNEX 11
Page 2
trained staff to undertake project appraisal. The proposed project
would assist ABC in upgrading its staff in project appraisal (Annex
10). This study would focus on resource mobilization aspects of
longer term lending. In particular, it would review internal
resource deployment policies, and explore other ways of raising
longer term resources such as issue of longer term bonds and certi-
ficates and refinancing or rediscounting arrangements with the
People's Bank. The study would also make recommendations for
reducing ABC's currently excessive reliance on PBC and government
funds for longer term lending.
I
(c) Seasonal and Working Capital Loans. The study would review loan
appraisal procedures for and management of production credit and
working capital loans including terms of such credit; the norms used
for determining subborrowers' need for such credit; supervision and
monitoring arrangements; delegation of loan sanction powers to
branch managers; and mechanisms to protect branch sanagers' indepen-
dence in lending decisions.
Loan Collection and Write-offs
3.        The proposed study would review current loan recovery procedures and
performance, and suggest measures by which subloan collections can be
improved. Rescheduling of loans is common in ABC, but in the absence of well
defined guidelines, decisions on rescheduling tend to be ad hoc, not necessa-
rily assuring sufficient relief to subborrowers and rehabilitation of projects
financed. Local governments provide subsidies to affected subborrowers, but
also on an ad hoc basis subject to availability of funds. There is scope to
rationalize these arrangements so that relief, where warranted, could be
speedily provided to protect the interests of both ABC and subborrowers. Bad
debts are carried in ABC books for unduly long periods contributing to high
overheads. Since ABC profits are transferred annually to the Ministry of
Finance (MOF), ABC does not carry any provision for writing off of bad debts:
any write off requires prior approval of, and specific budgetary allocation by
MOP. For ABC to operate as an independent enterprise, it must develop
improved procedures for documentation and treatment of bad debts, provide
discretionary powers to lower level branches for approving write-offs up to
certain amounts, and build up of realistic provisions from annual profits to
permit write-offs. The study wo'ald assist ABC in preparing such procedures.
Transaction Costs of ABC Lending
4.        Except in IDA-assisted projects, not much analysis has been made of
ABC's transaction costs on various types of lending. Government's credit
policies have long been characterized by interest and capital subsidies. The
study would attempt to document the nature and dimensions of government
subsidies for credit; extent of cross-subsidization of credit activities
within ABC; and whether ABC receives adequate spreads to cover its transaction
costs.



73 -ANNEX 11
Page 3
Enterprise Financing
5.        The proposed study would describe various forms of enterprise
ownership, organization, and management; outline ABC procedures governing
lending to enterprises; and recommend improvements. With increasing decentra-
lization of production and investment decisions, enterprises with different
forms of ownership, organization and management are being established.
Generally, enterprises which borrow from ABC include those established by
individual households or groups of specialized households; collectives;
co4eratives; and local governments at township, county and provincial
levels. Recent experience has shown that very often these enterprises are
loose organizations without clear arrangements for profit-sharing and account-
ability for losses incurred. ABC recognizes that for strengthening management
of loans to enterprises, its credit staff at all levels must clearly under-
stand the legal framework o: these organizations and contractual obligations
of the parties to the loan tJntracts.
6.        The proposed study would also analyze the performance of randomly
selected enterprises to define the nature of enterprise management problems
and the ways in which ABC should handle them. Lending to enterprises in
recent years has revealed many problems: first, management of enterprises is
often inexperienced; second, technology used is outdated; third, enterprises
face shortages of raw materials and fourth, grossly inadequate tertiary
services affect profitability of investments. Financial standards for manage-
ment of these enterprises are still in the process of evolution. While
improving enterprise project appraisal capability through staff training
(Annex 10), ABC must also develop the institutional capability to provide
managerial and technical assistance to enterprises to ensure that the projects
financed are efficiently managed. The study would analyze this issue and help
ABC in developing a strategy for building up such a capability.
Savings Mobilization
7.        Despite a rapid growth in deposits with ABC and RCCs in recent
years, the potential for further mobilization of deposits in rural areas is
still very large. About 33% of total liquidity of all households is represen-
ted by currency; in rural households, the share of currency in total liquidity
is reportedly even larger, as high as 60-70%. Interest rates have been
revised several times since 1979 to encourage financial savings by households
and enterprises, and further reforms are under way. However, deposit mobili-
zation is constrained by ABC's inadequate number of deposit stations and poor
customer services. The proposed study would review these aspects and recom-
mend measures to facilitate greater deposit mobilization.
RCC Development
8.        ABC has initiated reforms in RCCs which are focussing on strengthen-
ing the autonomy of RCC management; providing operational flexibility to RCCs;
introducing improved loan management and ac~.3uting procedures; and assisting
in staff development. The proposed study would assess the progress made in
this regard and outline a plan of action for expediting the process of RCC
development.



- 74 -                            ANNEX 11
Page 4
9.        Methodology.  Detailed terms of reference for each of the studies
would be agreed between ABC and IDA by June 1988 based on a review of research
already done by ABC's Research Department. The project would provide ABC's
Research Department with local and overseas technical assistance for designing
and conducting these studies.



ANNEX 12
-75 -
CHINA
THIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJVCT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
IDA fiscal years                      Disbursement                      X to total
and semesters              Semestral            Cumulative             IDA credit
1988
2nd                     14.0                  14.0/a                  8.0
1989
lst                      3.5                  17.5                   10.3
2nd                     12e5                  30.0                   17.6
1990
ist                     20.0                  50.0                  29.4
2nd                     20.0                  70.0                  41,1
1991
lot                     20.0                  90.0                  52.9
2nd                     30.0                 120.0                   70.6
1992
Ist                     20.0                 140.0                  82.3
2nd                     20.0                 160.0                  94.1
1993
1st                     10.0                 170.0/b               100.0
/a Includes proposed deposit in Special Account.
/b Proposed closing date: June 30,1993.



Th1RD  IRAL  HXrT P0JEMT
Scnonato PIceg. far Traded Bonds. 1937 and 9900Vs
Vegtabte   Btack               Live                     greasy
Cc a Soybean      Olt      Toe  Rhbber       ine    aeet    Lemb       ot       Urs      QamP  Potei
a   La  La               s    L           a    L           Li   aL    a               LJ    La
bt Tra  stus                              X        X        X       X                 X        X        X        1        11N  N  N
(6o I2) 01                                             0150                                                  115      160      67
Oce0  Freight t1)                                25               34                                                    84      34       SO
CIF ar- FOO    _u                        -      179      SW      L        see      ON      17158   1es s     -4        19t    194        97
Ce  or FM       h Y)                    67      91 t114    7950    8654    8S6   a986               70!      g75       554      718   a86
Port hrgee mod
dietribator's marge L                49       64      125    -79t       a4      409  6598       46        601       75       o0      57
Tr_nsporu  Port toe Lo& Loer L         -        -90     -e0      -S0   Q 0         -10      -0       -0        20       so       90      sO
tRan-ports FPr  toei uhetolor a        -17      -17     -17       -51    -195        4       -9       '4       -6       17       17      17
Price  x-ilt                           161      59t     8s       7047   a80       200    5788               10947      on        4       405
MtlLing adjustmnt La                                                                       0.50    0.55
i tLtng cost tow byproduct value                                                              a        B
betrie price (Y)                       I81      581      so      7W0     am      2ge       215    87   10w47           m        on      4a
Finrci0t price  Y                              6        00      am      6090    2400    9000    9e00    100                   68a      498
fet Price (3                                    240             294                                                    215       as9    112
Ocean Freight                                    Os                54                                                   84      84       s0
CIF or FOB           01                11      2n6       487    2950    1821    1290    2539        21        24       240      2       142
CIF or FlU           Y]                487       68    1848    97g1       4861    4978    5415   10888       m785      924    1839      e6e
Pert ohrges NW
distributor'O mrgin Lu              -84      -6     -191    -600  . 486    -448    -67           -060      8O       10       198      72
Tn_raports Port to woalaee  r a        -0       -0       -eo      -90      so      -a0      -eo      -0         o       -ea      0o      20
Treasparts  Fare to uboLmlor j         -17      -'7      -1       41    -128        .4       -6       -1       -4       17       47      17
Price ax-sil                           88       665    11        35      56       46       9514    9404   106         1063    1848      6
Witltn  edjuetomt La                                                                      0.60    0.55
ittlling  ot  l" byproduct vatue                                                              a        a
S_snlo prie (3                         83       .I      1615     675o5 I3s6gm     6125    4eo4    5164   10647    103lm       1343      .
Fi iat ptio. (VI                       80       61n   a800       90    6am        2400    3100    9000   10000          o       Ga8     46
Lg Iortd See projection ftor 1887 end 00   1987 constat values, tfrm W, Waere and Fineasioe  AsUptios  d IWlbtY_erly RPavieln of
Cedity Prtce Forecastso, Internat Nomrandum  January 17, 1667      16M1  Chin_w twart or eert prim  tre e 1   q|  Sa" t
a?zhbook UoJials State Statiticat Sures, 1966M sld                               ISIB TradC UtaeWAos i o otorea end1 tatit as   rtnt1
FOB US But? port.
D uttch oban 0tt crud, FB ox-si ltl adjusted by a factor ot 0.94 to approxiset the average Chimn  FB export price for a six of
rapaged. cottonsed, p_eant. ad seems oilt.
Lodon aution. oerage price soiveWd for  ltl tees.
FM8 ND. I in bates. 1Ma York.
Marginalt t97  of overagel export value per ton  tlive sine  projected using best U.S. Import price Index.
Avoroga export unit value for froen beef projeted usng beef U.S. isport price index.
Avermas export unit vatue for fromn toab, proJected Using beet U.S. import price Index.
Average 1mott unit vatue fto  osay wool,  --Ad  oatnt.
L    d (4011 N1o FS bEurope.                                                                                                                    t
Diammonium pOosphete (1i8 Up 495 P9053 bulk, FOB US  ultf,
Bulk (60t K2), FOB Vanoouer. 
Port ehorge   t fWton plus 85 distributors margin.
Average ratl freight chorge (Y002ton km) to conaming area (seemed to be 1000 kh) suttipLied by the raoi  transport conversion factor of
La  Average truck transport charge (Y0.17/ton km) to consuming  ros (eued to be 100 km) euttiptied by the rod  transport ocoverion factor
of 0.87.
La  Adjustmnt freo caromc wight to tive winght.



- 77 -
ANNEX 13
Table 2
CHINA
THIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Selected Conversion Factors for Inputs /a
.. . . . . . . . . . .    L ..... . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .
Conversion Factor
Electricity /b                              0.88
Rail Transport                              0.99
Road transport                              0.87
Construction /c                             1.07
Equipment                                   1.09
Consumption conversion factor /d            1.13
Farm labor /e                               0.57
--------------.- -- -. -.--...-. -- .-.-- ---... --..-- --.--.--.
/a  Based on an update of estimated conversion rates in S.
Ichishima and A. Wood, "Economic Analysis of Aluminum
Killing in Shanghai" (mimeo, May 1982). The update used the
exchange rate at negotiations of Y3.71/US$1.00; 1987
domestic prices; international price projections for 1987 in
current prices from EPD, "Macro and Financial Assumptions
and Half-Yearly .aevision of Commodity Price Forecasts,"
Internal Memorandum, January 17, 1987; and 1985 Chinese
import or export prices from 1986 Chinese Statistical
Yearbook (Beijing: State Statistical Bureau, 1986) and Hong
Kong Trade Statistics 1985 (Hong Kong- Census and Statistics
Department, 1986).
/b  Economic price based on the long run marginal cost of
thermal power at the retail level, from AEPEN, Staff
Appraisal Report: China< Second Power Pro1ect, Annex 19.
/c   Based on 1987 conversi.Au rates for unskilled, technical and
supervisory labor, steel, timber. cemant, machinery, and
nontraded goods or services of 0.57, 2.26, 1.13, 0.80, 1.16,
1.11, 1.09, and 1.33 respectively (see note Lai).
/d  Weighted average of ratios of projected 1987 economic to
financial prices for rice, wheat, corn, vegetable oil, pork
and other animal products, fish, sugar, and beverages. The
weights are based on 1985 consumption patterns in Sichuan.
/e   Fifty percent of the market wage times the consumption
conversion factor.



leJwmeo--e au nose Jmae q pm.o.- eq Vlt s-a. w-'as 1 Jodi-lid  *ww M ~~  0*e&Aj. xtP IO  pm aboo leiSm Omu Bdt&m4 Sald oAMA.J GOAmm
*umldsd *maSe e0  us1abj *mma  -son
-      -B     s -     -      -       uUI   ausi  lUll  514        -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -       -     (TSui~SsesS111 N, a  J
-       _      _      _      -       mis     ss   urs    sis   -         -       -      -      -      -       -      -      -          lf,)lu.s  *  1
_ _            -    _        -      80_1   fOUl _L         ml   -        -      -       -      -      -       -      -      -           1.d;.i.aa.,nads
-      -      -       -      -      -       -      -      -       1061   1*58   10    SUDS   MIS   S1I   PSB       55  US wUe
-      -      -       -      -      -       -      -      - amm          mu         wat   a m   aes      .                            (ols uo0 i  2   inn
-      -      -       -      -      -       -      -      -       553   aI   #151.   1311. a315   63M w       3113   5163   3131      UbIOSqJOV Jm usqt
Om    otwa   gm  MS                                                       to ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ID) ownuo uwf
.-~se.
a0"~~~~~~~~~~~~on   OM&   uO$ 0  itF                                                                                             oot  JGSvIA  oF $_ mdefa
_s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M                               *a      m    ON       mm    on      gm    gm    O-s_"1                 101011
_ 907x9 "W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R  oam  _Dt so  no    PM    am  o m    Gmo                                                      ow  04010_ _"
-  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - . -  -  -  uS  mu  m- 36- 51-1
rs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O                                              Ms _0O _M             Ms                  ^4
s46 swe(fd *3315
-am    am   -So   -U. -Aa -m   -um                         SS   um        M,   S -         n  o                      o       o              (1Mm"S" i*nSmI
3m1    Om&   St"$   owl,  O-55  0-S&  1-&  1.  ft   Om56    aS    1s8    gm                    mm    Om       am    gm SOBW                  (81 am WI"
1-3                                     - -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -                     -  -  -t -  -  -                                         16l
I    1511.  66541  SOM1  51.W61   not1  SOS1  1m111   99    010m    gm    11   a          a      6       5      0      0                           106U
D-&    41.   was   5a1    VMI,   WI    6           55      6      S1     66     -       -      -      -       -      -      -       -               0 a
g     als   aum  no    55           O0m    SM      1       5    5       a      -       -      -      -       -      -      -                    b.1 3a
m6101   3m1   Om$  6a3       6M1   GM$  61al.  gm11   61.         aS            -       -      -      -       -      -      -            addl  6 eidnSS
-      asta    -sl    -u    -out   -PS    -s    -n         -      -9    o-      -       -am    NM    gm    au    gm    am                        1
-      -      -       -      -      -       -       -      -       -     -       -      -      ism   P0    B8UI         .    8 51                 I   ap_
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u                                      OS&   860    80a    on              IAKWdW PM" x 9 B t 
9   -40    -M    -0    -              RNA   mm   Gm$  am -    -      -       -      -      -       - #M
am     -m      me   gm    Om         -      Om      m     an      Ms            -       -      #11    11    #06    068    PS                vaSOM Sld 11
AS    an       Ms     -& va           e       s ae         6       n     G -  -  -  -      -       -      - 011/81 13  51    8               o4M"SdsPIO1
USmi  65411~ 115    16 *5                958 m          3      00 1 -       -      -      - M     20     -so    -s    -u               [1.) win   u
to DA  1*O3rUdC
(GO0. wwAM 31t'insUU) p\Batualf.u det
igmhiJi  iw  M 06134
vv



oNaA
7911R   IDL CEDIT PNUW
L1teX1< toomtnt; i            Ymn|
PROJECT  YEAR
I        e       3-4       54         7         S         8 9      0        tt        It       la        14        15       IS        17    19-4
Arm pteltd(m)                       120                                          -             -         -         -             -         -
Ytotd (Waow.)                        -         -                  -        150       175      290       225       375      33        375       450      we        700       6o       1000
Tout Prodmoton (kg)                                 - -                   s -  -  1   2115    24000    27o       39OO              450       54000a 630  o4010   102000   12000
RuE  I1l                          -         -        -         -       300I0             80                1100   1       0   157500   18B0    W D 984000    W 0   40
-Laiipreperet1oe                  18_85                 -         -                                                                                                             
Plat_tt                         88166    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    _    _                                                                               - 
Zrttett1uaueA                      -  14610    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -
lUd tWiu.                          -       664        -         -         -         -        -         _         _         _         -        _         -         _         -        -
Eteosritietteo                     -       8840        -        -         -         -         -        -         -------
tpr15&tere                                10-t800    -                    -    -    -    -    -    -                                          -    -    -    -                       -
0t1eP 1        mtt                 -       370         -                            -         -         ---------
01tRartue                          -        640        -o       z -       -         -        -         -         -        -         -       _         _        _         _  
*raltinme                        1tll   54OOD          0711 -             -         -        -         -         -        -         -_             -   _                   - _ 
TvSe1ta                         100       50   -            t - S         O         O        O         O         O        O                  - O       O                  - O  
Ihiates                            -         -O        -e        -      705     3118      3404    3404    33404    3753          3752    383         753      15        403       40393
llurwt                             -         -        -         -        9185    10t44   tt118       1340      18 t40   1666      3137      3614    320        4175      870 I
Tr_mnor                            -         -         -        -        18D       210      240       370   as0          390       45f0      540      966       840   s60o 8
Ieouinot etr1^o ep1ta    -                   -         -        -   5384    -                -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -         -
eattet                            t0         0       O         0ar 3355    W8373    305?           101     35374    a988t    402t8    4076        4110      4566     499       415?
Tea
OlitOtt                          -         -        -                   -        -                            -          -       67    -40        11850    t l1   17830    3115
TOTM. tO67  (2)                5t33      531       515       10813    3         2377      30937    31015    31374    46_         4904      518         1      907       843      697
SET -e
tBra. R      . (t|                   O         0         0        O    5300      73800    3400       t4     115600   1360    15750    190000   33100           30110   35090   4000
seT  etat (33                    5333      53311    10007   tOf861018    3505    38773S   9a3t303a174    4tlBII 4_4    5690    S80                             900_6e3              65
Wtbest P         roject Ra
R"_W~~~~ -                                   -      400       90        000      61         SO       60       660       60        900      80        80         -60
wtWipthb- Prjst Ne-tt Newanme   4313    4392    1            -4403        46    477        483    55484    78136t   31814 10148   130734   16t7    31533   334166                  140
PFA00Di9 S OERT    fl
Nbborerr ceoutrtbtoo    16059  15734   30tQ   3154                          --    -           -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -         --
Lm-tsrtta                        3n7Q2  3ae   7005  7429    -                        -        -         -         -        -         -         -        -          -        -         -
usatoWte                      95313    5612s   10007    101                                -         -         ---                                                          
Repttet ot prinolptp                -         -         -        -      3000     30000    30000    30000    17309          -         -         -        -         -         --                     0  3
IaatoreDnootoanlt O )               -         -        -         -   1100S   t60   3203  390   1403    -                             -         -        -         -         -         -          
Total WDbt SetrtCo Itnomntl         -         -         -        -      41003S   36600    seo3820     303    19019         -         -         -        -         -         -         -                 49 
Tovta  Debt Sevco {roal)            -         -         -        -      30319    t735      24014    21104    117tl0        -         -         -                      
REAL CASH P0I1t'mtc/           O                0         0    o         14520    22413R   23848    41580    72335    89314   109408   139794   1779n    3933   s1                es 3mG
FUelS il lSCl?t   t   U4tlS  50
%W   Rat re_..  foeoe on *aea planted to orchod.
~W   Bsso awr_   ptu ftnnc1ng slm   tota tost, an  reat debt servce.



CH=
7310 IRJRAL CIEDIT PRtUEIT
To  Rehbi itetiAnW  (ttCotant 1307 Yuan)
PROJECT YEAR
1        2         3        4         5        8         7        a         a       10       11        12       19        14       15
-m
Am pleata (ha)                        I    -    -                -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -                                             _    _    _
yi.tw  Igb  jw,                     -        140       480 s   700      10w0      ioo       IwO      10W       Io       1050       910      770       Sao      430      S
Gse EStE I1I                       -      1311      4_36    8 4        SW0      OM 0     69000                          M U    7370       U08     5         41       O
LMO pueps.ste. a
--mmrig                           15"       -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -                                                               _
bplmt plet                        351   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    _    _    _
AsrebmioelaStoe l731    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -
Zmsstaluorlilqeapitel-  4wpl  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -
eitmta1 l                       44       410       -         -        -         -        -          _        _         _        _        _         _        _         _
Ldr- ustmae                       -        43       417         S      34        a4       a"        3"       694       664      775       as        SW       417      3
Labw- bevooi                      -        871     IBM       1S3      146       1406     143       140      146       1436     1414      1369     IVY7    1130        R
FPetiUoN  a pL tldm               -        US       am        8m44      417      417       417      417       417      417      33                 am                 O 811  301 3
processing                        -        149       mgS      743      111      Il1s      Il3      1,116    11        1116      370       3n       671       No       378
ao ttal                         -       1t4      3OM_    8013        63       SW       86        86        863      3M        5M      3N        314       80       1M
Teas
aab' t*~                        -        889   * 131       131B     3714      374M       OM4     374      3734      3734     3361      111      1304      Ml        RU
Tiu   Ib      )                  44       gm       O8718     43        63       g59       GD          6       1600    0350     a5m                444       SW        714                    0
aS"mm a Ur. (1)                      a     12111    43        6mm      3gm       O0G      a0m       6030      am3      gm3      7870      am0      54m                8 w
5 _11m  lt6_ 
Total Cet  (3                    3434      36       9n713     45        30       amS      65m        50       am       350      5607      53       4443      33S3     3714
vit, u Pro"Got Nt
_bv Wa                        t1114      1414     1114      1114     1114
Pith Project Ibt Revenue        -6W7    -4l         -53        105     137       341      1441      3431     34n1    141        13        1457      93        ace      Ole
FZUMMm   a OUUT        I .
*hormsr Aetrlbtloe                727   1SO m              -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -        -         -             -
1041rtsmtee                      1697  315    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -
eubtetl                      32424  45    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -
RApaYMOt of principal              -         -        -        400       4        400      400       400      4W        105       -         -        -        -         -
Zntest on tenn ( a)                -         -        -        200   1E    138   104    79    40                         8       -         -        -        -         -
Totat debt servies (1minti         -         -        -         00 MD     l55     Gm       504       472      440       113       -         -        -         -        -
Totat debt sevice [resl)           -         -        -        487      480       407      86        Zs8      29         72       -         -        -        -         -
VW. CASH POBIINW                     0     -5        5s5       792     2040      2e84     2195      2183     2136      2419     1963     1457        SS9    a6         3D13
R    - 172         ERR                  S ass    1808
W     Baood on data fVrec Y_unn collectiv, te  prduction area.
W     Arng  yietd or Opr1- rre_rooeed  to.
W/  Not revenu  foregone on *re  rabdhittated.
W     eBras revnu  plg financing minus totat cets Iwctcldlng 1noreentat workng capitatl) and rest debt service.



- 81 -
ANNEX 14
Table 4
CHNA
THIRD RURAL CREDZT PROJECr
Lon Neat Pig\W (Constant 1987 Yuen)
WI th Projegt
without
Project     Ye 1      Yr 2     Yr 3      Yr 4     Yr 5      Yr 8     Yr7  Yrs "8-      Yr 20
REVENUE
Fat sLaughter pig tG)                10        7
Lean slaughter pig (#I                                 28        28        28       28        e8       23       28        28
Cutt asws te)                      0.3       1.0       0.8      0.8       0.6      0.6       0.6      0.8       0.8      o.e
Manure ttonl                         11       17        24       24        24       24        24       24        24       24
GROSS REVWE  1                  less      1674      806      560      5808      5806      58       860      56068    58
COSTS
Inveotaentg
Pig pens                          -    376                               -        -         -             -
Equipmnt                          -         50    -            -        -         -        -         -
Breoding saus                     -        SOO       -         -        -         -         -        -         _
subtotal                         0       6          0         0        0                                o              0
operatingi
LWborW                             0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0        0         O
Fo d                            172       9113     415       4505     4505      450      480       4805     4505      4505
Veterinary A Al                   25        48        87       87        87       87        87       87       87        87
Replacement Saw                   68         0      187       167      167       187      167       167      167       187
Incremental aorking capital       -        712      867        -        -         -        -         -        -     -1898
Other                             12        14       28        26       28        29       29        29       29        29
subtotal                      1892      88       5655      4788     4768      4766     4768      4788     4768      3130
Taxes
-ubtotal                             -        -         -             -         -        -         -
TOTAL COSTS                     182       4650     5655      4788      4768     4780      4768     4788     4788      3130
NET REVENUE
Gross Revenue                    196       1J674    5606      5606      580      580       50       580      5806      5806
minuet
Total Costs                      1022      4850     5855      4788      4788     4768      4788     4768     4768      3130
equalet
Nat Revenue                       14F    -76         -8        83        838      836  89 8          638      838      2477
MiCREMENTAL NET REVENbL
With projsct net revenue aino
without project not revenue               - e318    -190       8S7       887      887       687      687       687     2335
FINACDINS & DEST SERNICE
Subborrouer's contribution         -        7          -        -
Long-term Ipan                     -    178           -         -        -         -         -        -        -        -
aubtatal                        -    9564    -               -        -         -        -         -                 -
Repayment of principal             -         -       289       299       288      29S ass            29S       -         -
Interest on loan (on)              -         -       144       120        S8       72        48       24       -
Totat Debt Service (n inoal)       -         -       448       419      395       371       947      323       -         -
Totat Debt Servi0e (reol)          -         -        416      36e       333      200       288      23S       -         -
REAL CASH PCB ITIO6 W              142       188       413      4b9       505      536       B70      5Su      838       838
FRR a 17%          ER 1  SU              SV       I=
\W Based on dota from Sichuan Province.
W     Fanly tOlbor (80 and 80 workdays in tha wthiout and with project situations respcotivelyt  lnvotving no househcLd
cash outtoy.  At the Current financial  qo roat  of Y3 per norkdey# the FRR wotd be 14.0.
\c/  froas revenue ptue finoaeing minus totaL costs tsxctVding inramentlL morking copitil) and reol debt service.



NN  MAL Cm           ram
a-
m ~    ~      ~      M       U          P#$  -
Pasts.. Os,.ateu*w9 (Twon)
With P".J.t
Projest    r.I        Yr Q         Y   Yr 4      Yr 5         Y      r a .7  V6 TO     r S   YtOr  Ye li-O
tds,.lpue  low)                  0        90       no
am soat la)                      S         S       la        7       57        37       Be       In       so       so       as        U
_   zt Gotta i)                           114      a        77      liO      14       801       301      301      801      S01     8So
mms           111n  (         1"4       1V      E4        8 an     7       15        1837     low7    1837      1837     13        3837
Pstu ssatlta_t                 -    483   4                -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -
Live s_ata                     -    -    3Om   400   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -
_PPo                           -    g00    -    -    -    -    -    -                                     _    _    - 
_ubtotal                      0      GU        780      490                 0         0        a        a        0                 a
t.r. adsiatonm_.               -        -        13        7                176       173      170      57   70 aWm w376           376
_sa  asme t                    so        so       54       99      l86      164       154      194      184      194      103       184
subtotat                     8        35       In       875      40       440   I        70           785      73       48       U0
TL DUSTS 3)                   as       WI       134      775      404      44        co       US       78         5      4W        4S
IET _eu
gram R._ tl )                  154       19       3        3        701     low       1W       1        18 t37   lap7    183  1#      7
amis
Total Cata t3l                  so       V1I      114      775      404      440       4        470      75       73       43       47U
Nat A.au  83                  114    -474                -6        304      3         m        an0      we       573   001         m
Imetal Nat swoon                       -        -737      -as       1go      58 l      3        733      43       411    737        73
FIwmuu a OT ICE
subbbrrovr oretibution                   10 Igo           1         -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -
LeGO-toMU.le                            446       M1       30        -        -        -        -         -        -        -        -
oubtotl                             6Om   73   49                 -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -
p      .t ot ptrifip                     a-        -        -        U       E0       400       450      eU       155       -        -
laost anmto"  141 a]                                                Ise      113      lot        as       80      1l        -        -
ltoudtnwlt:  io)t)                                                  176      871       on       016        0      135       -        -
rteat debit SWOON IrfttJ                                    -       14B      5        418       374      173      tt1       -        -
R&&L Sam  POSITI                        1 00                1s 1o8 io 1 U l l 3       4         An       385t     4        6 
FM -                   .    I         P       -                                                                                   -sI                                        4.
W    B          eadoa" t_ It fah     let 111 u            pop 40    f        at futl d t,oI  asnt_t but inolve sa hnsoa_td Oesk eutlsg.
cWiath ub  vauia  h   ustfiaea   ssrt   Y.2 per usuakds Is reote areas of buigimul.th as l FM    olt  balM.
Wieth tabo . plwa it 10mh, aWbPs ftotl f at  and re   dett*   govIe.t
~~~~~L&fnwn   _ tm _w *s tal rc"O                       re" debt Sw1Qs



- 83 -                                                       ANNEX 14
ODU~
TNUO 909L   DtT PRWECT
Fish PondeW   (nata  1997 YUan '000)
With P at,rtj
Yr 1     Yr                   4 Yr               8 Yr4  yea     Yr 8a Y   Y9 Yro  0-19  yeo
Fry I m01                        480      9000     9800    10X0    10900    10a        10O0O    t1000   10900    10         1080
Fish tu)                         846      144      1944      700      8456     4820     400      480       4090      400     40
woo REVWE t11I                 18        8510     48180     70       8840    10900    10O8     10900    18400   19500    18500
nvsntmts
pow *a       (on)               7300    13000       -        -
Civit worm
-pond  Nd cent               19                             -         -        -        -
-outlvsrasulgoeW              100      188         -                          -         --                             
uoipmet                           85   Su88    -             -         -        -        -        -    goo    -               -
bletet                      Is4m      10938    _   0        0         0        0     _           0 _O6              0        0
Oprartingl
Labor                            35       46s      513      5         66        64      864       084     064       604    in's
Fad                              454      Oo      '1167    1701    oa9        am90     a8m   ao           sams     son0      am
Frtlitiet a oheelote              64      115      144   14 14            906 3                  30        808      1         m
Incremtl working capiat    9             17         -                                                                -     -m7
Other             tss   a 75                       366      386  a             366       g6       9        39       Rea      3s
oubot1t _8    a8                               m3        1751      4104     4304     4304     4804      404      404      1498
Txeas
subtotat                        0         0        0      a8s       498      540      540      54          0      6e5n     6
TOTAL COSTS                   13M       14494     81       8090      4686     444      4744     4744      68       479      3167
NET REVENU
rO Ro  vnu                         a0 8510         460       7O5      6840    10800    10oo0   1C00    11400    1500    18100
minus:
Total Costs                     19811    1464      8111    S3         4680     4744     4744      4744     58       467      3187
Nat Revenue                   -1671   -1074        3786     866       4004    O95       9056    605        9667     961    t1IS
FDWUC2X    6 DENT  IERVCE
subborrsr contribution          5411      s606       -        -         -        -        -        -         -        -
Lsrq - oap                     13687  64t8    -               -        -         -        -        -         -        -        -
subtotat                    10        1101        -        -        -             -                  -                      - O
RPYmnt of prinoipet               -         -      1000     80o0     80oo      4500     450      450       4830       -        -
Intaroat on tson                  -         -      195      1685     16        143      10l6      70       845        -        -
Total   bt servie. (nomil)         -        -      3908    8o         4665     53       55_5   _ 5         45         -        -
Totat Mbt bervio  (rel)           -         -       403      974      870      411$    S70      9S11      391o       -        -
REMA CM  PSITW                    3e       331       58       696  1 88           8      96       3m        8717     83       6e
Fu1  iS           on50 a on                  13811m
\W/ Based an date for 19,l00 Su of fiah pond to be established In Ihnn.
W     Inotudes p     hoIwe, p_er poter Nd housing.
W     Oroso revnu  ptu  financin  minus tott coats ooxtluding inor_wtal working capta L            rA l debt service.



S0AJaUs SqSp i's  pus 01600 1611 enluo  Suo$I  Si cald WWOAS smug  /q\
'u.qna ut LAeua  Jo, J*j wop uo Pon   AN
_     -___adN A  '8*i . W3       DI U MU
*3O1   LGM      VM      *m18      0m8  osos         Om       MS       Msa   st          a        0                 PNILUO  NM  W
-        -        toiM   s8is      gm    am          gsa         s      ego      -        -        -            (w)t  "61JOS $S0  1341
_        -        Mo    _m          on       gm       asc   6       B O          -        -        -         (simulUS   e8is tMal 10   wum
-        -        51;      535      855      33 9t Om9m01               30      -        -        -  05w                  0 d1d1 Jo SuoJSI0
-        -    11s1 8 mos             ass    moss      ons    ag         -        -      _          -               wedpouad pe *usi
-  -aa             7:       am                          w -
t;~~~~~~~~95                                                      8309      13      109         8                101 q_ n 
019
8811W6    IlS    Situ      5It1     SIl    SIlS       StUX LI           0391    hUS       13      303(5  150153
l       61      961       131     0991    815       USD         1S  sil        LS      8 -       -                           W1Oqm
<~~~~~im                             -b       -        -        -8       -l        -       misA    urn9     8s ou    O          -t
605     e005       M        o 005  s  s      mow      uos      uBs       o1     O0B       -        -                            PUm-i
*4008    OM      0m        amam. 0081    0081.    0058          51.       5       usIa -           -                         t
005      055      O        095        8      055      098      098      931      oo1      -        -                         .UI1uI.
us      auNs moe    aa             mu       ems      mo       ams       sMB   us          -        -0                                9
Ult       Ms      C9B1l      8t     U aUS      Us     a                 eM        5to     -9 -                                 1Jo
-   -   -   -   -   -   -   O  -    -                                                                                 Joa o E,@ poo
-        _        _        _        _        -        -        -        -        got      Daa      B08                         *um$ 7blg
_ _            _        _        _        _    _   _                    - 00a          8LI _LO                                %oo
StIS~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ _II  _61    tOLl    tOBlS   tOLl    L51  LS 35  ue *        a(I   im
_0  oooi _0    ag    oB   on    08    on    Mt.-                                                   -           _ro"
00M     009      006      000      o 0095    _000 0081    8015         gl    00u         -        -                      mar    _U0R
OC68    IIOtB    W108       LI    09L1t        1      UL8    OWILl    051|1    Olt       -        -             'PJ3  0       sm  _U~
aosr   onus    ams    moos    Omm            moms     mo       ous      oni      usl    -                               .e IS.SA pjim
Mas     mas      moss    ma        mass    moSs    u           mo       m"I.     as       -        -                         IMi Ps
a        0i    ai          a        8        a        8        9                 gm       tu       gm
11 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~p5  u 3 X  103 0                          '
-N
(090.$ "SA 551 IUSIU53SJ dU\IJSIwOO
WUUd luWlO  ftU         Io                                                                   11 
.,  



umA
TdUD RIWUL CREDT PRWECI
Voeetable 01a Pft proeee  1 (Conamtet too? w' 0001
PROJECT YEAR
t        a        8        4        5        6         7        a        3 8              II 1n2             la       14       I5
me el t-                              0    W           we    of    we    we   of   an    of   use  os    of   a
a 5 - u otz _ -                                                              575                        575,-
of wass eik                      -        -      SS=       6am      am3      am~    am         6ead               SS=      edg      Sal      on         -m      On
0tbebW pso                       -        -          4        7        7        7        7                  7        7        p        7      .7          7 
_rn            1                           0      San    14_       14_      143      145    148         145    14M        1415    145    143          146      14555
mu.~~~~~~m                        l
CIvIlite 1d453  13    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -
Is m       s        -        -        -         -        -        - _   _   _   _   _   _ _
ftutesl e_"aJtmse4m                                           -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   - - 
a                            1o O                           a 5               6        6         0        S        0  o              a        a  o               S        o 
01*"t"                         -        -         a       lie      133      1la  1_           1         1"       1ie      1                 1 11                16 sz  t-  -   a
omen                             - I               11      113    1_5        1_5      138    145         145      1t=      145    130        113    145         115
_twone                           -        -        U1       04       04       89        U8       04       19        33       33      a        21        a"        IS
_            cn-                          -         m       I         nf       7        7         7n      7n                 n         n                 77 
lb* 1seoltel                     -        -    1148 73    -    g                       g        an    4             -        -        -        -         -    -1579
OUer                             -        -         i         S        6        U   5 O  O  O      O        D                                   0         0 O                      4
To btet             O                    0     673o    1s15      1an1   13513    13156    g511    11           1359     13518    135l        - 1             10633
,eaeTezee
etatee                         -        -          9      115i    S115      115      115      115       15       11       115      115      115       115      115
NWOM 0      (                  167      33 a         7     115    15        1        1935    135    1am          13n      11        I3n     13n       Ion      1a
FM - I                   M0 _               V a
Srn _mm  (13                       3        0   _ 3        143_     143    145        145      146       143      1441    tm        1435     t_       1_3       145
\T       nt d33  ft67 *od67    1815    13_5   13*b                                    1335    13365 1_            1i_35    1S_      13i 1_5 *
IW not"memot            ing                                                              .         .     ..                  ...       .        .       ..
\ _.goW                         -        -       331|4     3384     354      314      4ES z    354                    3amedbsrc
5135b PrqIem  U.S GIve...|     -15@76  -43         -61       587     lasP     18       115    S137        137      187      11r7     lI       1W       1387      54
ecsmrbse                         US   685   14    3    ns    -                                    -         -        -                 -        -        -         - P
Leqff-tsl.          *        117      158        836      5         -        -          P                                                                 
aettl15                               333      1148       780       -        -        -      _         _          -      _        _        _        _       _-
GIpNmetepr-lnmp_   -                            -   -         00      800      81       810 800 U          4011      -        -        -        -        -         -       
iarteiemi1lea(0S                  -        -       113       153S     339      3#       161       97       31   --C
11ta deb emte   sminel            _         _       313     115      1558     1055      031      S         440       -        -        -        -         _        -
ToXtl dtere    feal               -        -     05           11      835      7411e 0637          k       330
W     _ee  en daeW ter a modavee tawble ett preceelu  faotory tn Blobmen.
W*  Iet revnu  of eNleting vegetable .11 proeeelnp fnoIltlme1 dtept_ce  by tbe projec  tectory.
Wa  1rn  revmi ples fleanohe  *tnw toXta  st and real debt ervice.



- 86 -
AEX 14
Table 9
1URD RURtL CREDIT PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
(all figures are percent)
________________._________________________,_______._______________________________.____________________________________-
Investent Cost          Labor Costs         All Operating Costs      Output PriceTb
Increased  Svttchlag  Increaaed  Switching   Increeed  Switchitng   Decreased  Switchlng
Base Case     10X      ValuelA       10X      ValueLa       10x      Vallef        10X      Valu.ja
m     MMR   m    ERR   X Change   PR  ERR   2 Change  FRR  m         x Change  FRR   ERR   X Change
--------------------------------------_I---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Tre Crops
Rubber           18   19   17   16    >100         10   18    >100        17   18    >100        17   18    -50
Litchi           25    27   24   26    >100        25   27      >100      25   27    >100        24   25    -67
Tea              17   38   16   37    >100         13   36    >100        12   35       4-79     12   35    -45
Livestock
Lean at pis    17   39   16   38    >100           17   39    >100        lb   lb        lb      13   32      -47
Sheep           22   15   21   14         +28      22   15       +47      20   12       +12      18   11       -8
Aquaculture        18   30   16   28    >100         16   30    >100        16   28       +86      15   26    -37
Agroprocessine
CaMeY           24   24   23   22         100      24   23      >100      Lb   lb        lb      21   21    -44
Vegetable oil   20    16   19   15        +33      20   16    >100        Lb   lb        Lb      18   14    -20
Total Project      20   24   19   23       >100      20   23    >100        17   22    >100        17   21    -40
La Percentage change in variable being tested at whlch UPV of project econamic costs and benbfits, discounted at 122,
is reduced to zero.
lb  Figures for the lean meat pig, canery, and vegetable oil emponents correspond to change  n the margin between
gross revemue and operating costs.



ANNEXI 5
- 87 -                            Page 1
CHINA
THIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data in the Project File
A. Project Preparation Reports and related documents
1.   Project preparation netes and subproject technical feasibility and
appraisal reports (in Chinese) prepared by ABC and local governments in
the following provinces: Guizhou,Sichuan, Yunnan, Anhui, Henan and Hubei.
2.   Executive Project Summary dated Febrary 27,1987 and Project Brief dated
February, 27,1987.
3.   Divisional Proposal on Financing of Rehabilitation of Tea.
B. Working Papers by Consultants on Preappraisal and Appraisal Missions
1.   Review of Tree Crops Development in Sichuan, Guizhou and Yunnan by
J. Blencowe.
2.   Review of Livestock Development Proposals by R. Harrison.
3.   Review of Selected Aquaculture Development Proposals, by L.C. Chen.
4.   Technical Appraisal of Yunnan Tea Component by R. K. Nathaniel.
5.   Technical Appraisal of Rubber Processing Component in Yunnan by S. T. Koh
6.   Review of ABC's Staff Training Proposals by R. Van Wagenen and H. Thomas
7.   A note on ABC's current Staff Training Arrangements by H. Thomas.



CHART 1
CHINA
THIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ABC Head Office Organization
President   J
Executive
IVice-13residents
Deparbedits|          Deprtment             Manaemen                Affairs l
2  Agricultural 1  _[  Extarnal  |         Funds    l         j Research & |
1    Credit          Affairs          1  Mobization J       1   RSystems
MobilizationReform
_ Comtroid       _ P@Traitningio &    _   PFunds            _Publications                      l
Management     ~Adn4ns*tration                               Empon 
..~~ ~~_  I
w   4 htInormation |      |Aucit &   ||Political|
Examination     ~Liaison
t  Inspection
Trust |
Management|
KsIaNSw4074



- 89 -                                   CHART 2
INW  MIM  OSITa PRST
IaplsatsXtin Ustidule
I                                  _                                                                                            I .      
CY C       I         low  I  1881  sI      w        I        s"m     I       i
I     MeJQr Project Activities                I
I                .                       t1lalU)1411191a541 11812411131314151 1S3141
I                                             I                                                                                 I
| ProJect Organization and Maneusnt           I
I     .I                                                                                                                        I
! Estabtish p inoalst Pe Ond POD          |    nxux       xu |
I  Estoblish  ounty/oity PO/UJ                   xxXX xXSXX                     xxxxaxx
1  Appoint ddl. ota?t for FM                  1        xxxxxxxxxsx
I  Credit Prrm                                I                                                                                 I
|  Teh. Bureas to initiae                     I                                                                                 1
!    compLet. fessibitity studios             |xXSxxX       XSXXXXAXAX       XXX                                                 I
3  ABC oubprojot appreleet                   I XXXXXXX* I XX5xXXXXXSXXXXXX xxxxXZZxx      JIxIIZXX             XXSXAXXUXXXXXIX
Subloon d1 buro sente                     |XXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXAXXSXXX XXXXXX XXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX    XMEXXAXXXXSXI
Prepeis doigWenepoo1ittictns                                                                                                 I
I  for rubber/tea/offles proo. ptants         I xxxxxxxxxxxx                                                                     I
I  Review gellnut production progrm           |  xxxxx          usxxxunxxhxx                                                     I
I  Review of pasture end sheep dev. prog m        xxxxx                  xxxxxxxx                                                I
I  Introduce RCC pilot program  to nhuind I 
I     Hubet                                    xxxxxxxxxxxx
I  Review FCC pilot program                                             xxxxxxxxxx
I  Introdues RCC pilot program  to enan aed  
3     Sichuan                                 |                                 xxxxxx                                           |
I  End-use werMfiotion of aubloans            I    x x xx x                 xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx                   x zsxxxxxi
I ntroduoa subtoen monitoring                 | xxxxxxxxxxx 
I  Submit progress reportee PUe to POs*                                                                                          I
3    POe to FCDS fCND to IY N                       xxxxx   xxxxx   xxxsx   xxxxx   xxxx   xxsxx    xxxxh    xxxxx   xxxxx   xxl
I  Staff Training                             1
1II
I  Appoint additionot staff in                |                                                                                  I
I       H Oad offo training division                    sxxx                                                                     I
I  Training of projast- eltad staf            I |   l Ux                                                                         I
I  Training  brod ttr fasutty of              I                                                                                  I
| three Nonagqo_t Cadre Coellegag                _          xxxxxxx 
I  Training In Cbtm  for faoutty of                                                                                              I
I    three sootago                              xxtxsa                                          asas cammaamuuUuIuu2Ixx
I  Trainers training at tho  thre  collttages                                                    u mt XX
I  Senior muuger  training at -t              II
I   thre  ooteel_ L                                               |                                  mm                   mamaj
N id-lelt mnagers training a                  II
I    ler-evel so                              I Rateu u_Ixatxanx izaama msaal
I  Proour_t of equipmen                       I
I   satormal for training orapenent'          I UIXXXXESI5                                                                       I
Monitoring and evalution of               I                                                                                  I
training motivity                        I             XuXXX   #XXXX   XXXXX   XX1x1   xXXXX   XXXXX   XXXts     xxiii AXXXi
I  surveys n Impact of training               I                              xxx'                            ax                 I
IIn-homse atudies                                                                                                              I
Finalise detaied To  ftor studies            I xxxxxxxxxx                                                                       I
I  Fietd mork  nd data anyaly                 I         xxxxsxxxxtx                                                              |
I  Review of etudIe  finding                  1                                 x                                                I
I                             .                    ..I
Letend xxxx rnpraset  mpoamuaotln off or ftolltup one project oesvitiss
ProJeot aoemltion datea  sooaer 8%  '1N'Closn1     g detas Junel SUO,



CRART 3
CHINA
THIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Organization for Project Management
Ministry of Finance                 -     -          r
State Planing Conmmission           F      __               ABC Head Offlce
Trainig       Research           Credit        External Affairs
1Department 1Department            Department        Department
r            .                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FCMD
Provincial Goverrnrnent
Planning       Economic        Technical
Commission       Agencies        Agencies                                PranciAl
Branch, ABC
Project Management Committee j       L                ----- -_ - - - - -          Project Office
County/City (Government
Planning       Economic        Technical
Commission       Agencies        Agencies                               County/City
Subbranch. ABC
Project Management Committee           - - -Project Unit
KSR"W8-403U2



IUKLu W416'
t * , N . ij 4 . r 'UP IM tnA                                               CHnIN A
-  {    t"W,*<,-/,^      OFr                              THIRD  RURAL CREDIT  PROJECT
'F*~f   h ! <fo,i,r  '    rvRtA   ,PROJECT PROVINCES:
Q   '\Genl9  i}.      C   JAPNGUIZHOU, SICHUAN, YUNNAN
_  r-{#--< 51 r )  U5 i/.fl2erPROPOSED SUBPROJECTS
i , ,,9,, 5 <b. ,/ - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~T ee Crops                          -          Roads
> 8/Js ' / ___ liv~~~~~~~~~~~~estock                                              Roilroods
!  t 1  5   3  t i 'w'$ F...                                    Aquaculture                  Rivers
P R } *-- ?+! L }~~~~~~~~~~~ Agro-Processing                                  -     ~Prefecfure Boundaries
5 <*_ < r? 8Ht"vPoo*NTo U X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Province Boundaries
20 >atETNA4 ^ ^                  ~    ~ ~~~~~~34   v                             -      Internotional Boundaries             34-
TH^RA,,, \ S             ~~~~~PHIUIPPINfS \            I                                  0   50   100O  150  200
)   *s  '       e                  /                    X  a.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SHAANXI 
L"'  %'.E''>  ,   S"k                >\Wmy    tA\   .,. '  t                                  A,,m, <~k ngyva
XIZANG    
BURMA f k s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t                                  ngA%   wv
BUMA                   ' It_'                                           IE           A                          -,9(;.oS
giiiong~~~ putrkoua



MONOOUA   ~~~~~~~~~~  PEOPLUI  1  11? ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TO Beijing
b<    l/tJUP.OFKONA                 ), XI.
i~~~m"                                                           nghi',.
OF
HAXSHANXI 
I                     /v't"''                                  ,. gr
'/     ~~    /UA 
To XiA                                         ia
34.    ._.                                                   .
SHAANXI
llbm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'N
k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
Shiycin~           Nn an
JJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
SICHUAHUNA
H1                  oCo~st



,   I  _  _ _   _   ,    _  .    ..               .      .                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 20'
HEBEI                                                       lie9                         CHINA
N.O...                                                                   THIRD RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
PROJECT PROVINCES:
ANHUI, HENAN, HUBEI
7, ,Z yPROPOSED SUBPROJECTS
iuoXy xt                                                                            ;,' Tree Crops
Livestock
;. Aquaculture
,IS   fHAN    'D/OJNI   G                             A    Agro-Processing
0                                    - ~~~~~~~~~~~~Roads
jinon                            ~~~~~~~~~~~Roilroods
, .-Rivers
-Prefecture Bouindaries
-  Province Boundaries
International Boundaries
R X*                                                                            5* u
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-?  ISO 200-0F-2
JIANGSU
kIND          .3~~1  ~         Nanjing
To Shanghai
.                                                                             -jr
T thu~Wuh
A
_#~ I T h , ,Mn      o has t/ red br The WJo 8&*. s  fta et the    of
-                        t          tte  eaeers    anJ    6   K JSIvE.V W   ~ ft   p l V 0t of   ho  W   I bSa I   USM  o t Tnk " Fe W-orkt a bon  ar t l y h $ tO N
J             A!    N       G       X      I                          "a/ vo" of any ft"doy,orwh vwws_t asucpweO ch neo,
1!6                       1 !t   \~~~~~ii                      120
J u h  I



