Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1871 CHA
(Third Rural Credit Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 29, 1988
CREDIT NUMBER 1871 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 29, 1988, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) with 
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to ABC proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and ABC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.O1. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, l985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.O2. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"ABC" means the Agricultural Bank of China, a specialized banking 
institution established and operating under the laws of the Borrower, including, inter 
alia, the 1979 State Council Circular and the 1983 State Council Decision;
(b)
"1979 State Council Circular" means the circular of the Borrower's State 
Council on the Restoration of the Agricultural Bank of China, dated February 23, 1979 
(State Council Document
No. (1979) 56);
(c)
"1983 State Council Decision" means the Decision of the Borrower's State 
Council on the Exclusive Exercise of Central Bank Functions by the People's Bank of 
China, dated September 17, 1983 (State Council Document No. (1983) 146);
(d)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and ABC 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(e)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and ABC pursuant to Section 3.O1 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and "Subsidiary Loan" means the subsidiary loan provided for 
in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(f)
"Project Provinces" means the Provinces of Guizhou, Sichuan, Yunnan, 
Anhui, Henan and Hubei.
(g)
"RCC" means a rural credit cooperative established and operating under 
the laws of the Borrower in the Project Provinces, to be selected by ABC for the 
purposes of carrying out a pilot program of rural credit through RCCs;
(h)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by ABC or RCC to a 
Sub-borrower for an Investment Project, and "Free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as 
so defined pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement, and "ABC 
Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan to be made by ABC out of the proceeds of the Credit and out 
of its own funds and "RCC Sub-loan" means a
Sub-loan to be made by a RCC out of the proceeds of the Credit on-lent by ABC and out 
of the RCC's own funds;
(i)
"Sub-borrower" means an individual farmer, farm household, joint 
household, collective enterprise, joint state-collective enterprise or state 
enterprise to which ABC or RCC
proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
(j)
"Investment Project" means a specific development project to be carried 
out by one of several Sub-borrowers utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan or Sub-loans;
(k)
"Renminbi" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(l)
"Foreign Currency" means any currency other than the currency of the 
Borrower; and
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of 
this Agreement.
Page  3
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies
equivalent to one hundred twenty-three million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 123,800,000).
Section 2.O2. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for amounts 
paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by ABC:
(i)
on account of withdrawals made by a Sub-borrower under a Sub-loan 
to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Investment Project in 
respect of which the withdrawal is requested; 
and
(ii)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for Part B of 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit.
(b)
A free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan to a Sub-borrower for an 
Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and 
out of ABC's own funds which shall not exceed the sum of $3,000,000 equivalent, when 
added to the amounts of any other Sub-loans made or proposed to be made to the same 
Sub-borrower for the same Investment Project and not repaid, such amounts being 
subject to change from time to time as determined by the Association in consultation 
with ABC.
(c)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
U.S. dollars a special account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.O3. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from 
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to the respective 
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
shall be cancelled.
(b)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section.
Section 2.O5. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.O6. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
May 15 and November 15
Page  4
commencing May 15, 1998 and ending November 15, 2022. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on November 15, 2007 shall be one and one-fourth 
percent (1-1/4%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent 
(2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms 
of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association 
may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the 
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with 
the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall 
not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment 
modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.O2 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. ABC is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.O2 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall: (i) cause ABC to 
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations 
of ABC therein set forth; (ii) take and cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of foreign exchange and other necessary funds, facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
ABC to perform such obligations; and (iii) not take or permit to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend proceeds of the Credit to ABC under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and ABC, under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, which shall include: 
(i) repayment of principal by ABC, in the currency withdrawn, within 20 years, 
including 5 years of grace, such principal amount to be the amount of Renminbi 
withdrawn and the SDR equivalent of the foreign currency withdrawn; (ii) interest to 
be paid by ABC at the rate of four and a half percent (4.5%) per annum; (iii) 
commitment charges to be paid by ABC at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) per 
annum; and (iv) on-lending terms from ABC to RCCs specified in Part D of the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to affect the provisions of paragraph (b) above.
Page  5
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take steps necessary to enable ABC to achieve a 
difference between (a) and (b) below of not less than two percent or such other 
difference as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Association:
(a)
the weighted average of the interest rates referred to in paragraph C.2 
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement; and
(b)
the weighted average of the cost of funds available to ABC for the 
purposes of the Project from all sources, including ABC's own funds and the Subsidiary 
Loan, both such weighted averages to be calculated in a manner acceptable to the 
Association.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and 
land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by ABC pursuant to Section 2.04 
of the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause the Project Provinces to maintain the 
respective Project Management Committees with composition and functions acceptable to 
the Association, to assist ABC in carrying out the Project with coordination and 
assistance from the relevant departments and agencies of the Borrower.
Section 3.06. The Borrower and the Association shall, in consultation with ABC, 
exchange views on the interest rates to be charged by ABC in its lending operations in 
light of ABC's funding cost and profitability, as well as inflation and other interest 
rates prevailing in China, in order to ensure that interest rates to be paid by final 
beneficiaries are positive in real terms.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall ensure that Yunnan Province shall cooperate 
with ABC in carrying out the tea rehabilitation program pursuant to Section 2.08 of 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause Guizhou Province to: (a) complete a 
review with ABC by December 31, 1989 in respect of the progress in the implementation 
of gallnut, pasture development and sheep breeding programs on the terms of reference 
acceptable to the Association in order to determine the advisability of expanding such 
programs; and (b) consult with the Association regarding the size and phasing of such 
programs.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall ensure that the Investment Projects are 
implemented in conformity with appropriate guidelines on environmental control issued 
by the Project Provinces and
acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.O1. Pursuant to Section 6.O2 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
ABC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that ABC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Page  6
(c)
The laws of the Borrower applicable to ABC, including the 1979 State 
Council Circular and the 1983 State Council Decision shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of ABC to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ABC or for the suspension of its 
operations.
Section 4.O2. Pursuant to Section 7.Ol (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.O1. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.O1 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and ABC; and
(b)
the Borrower's State Council has approved this Agreement.
 
Section 5.O2. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.O2 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by ABC, 
and is legally binding upon ABC in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and ABC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and ABC in accordance 
with its terms.
Section 5.O3. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.O4 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.06 of this 
Agreement and the provisions of Section 4.O2 of this Agreement shall cease and 
determine on the date on which this Agreement shall terminate or on the date 20 years 
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.O1. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.O3 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.O2. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Page  7
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 2O433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
44OO98 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Han Xu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Sub-loans
     (a)   under Part A.1      109,180,000       71% of the ABC
           of the Project                        Sub-loans
     (b)   under Part A.2        5,820,000       100% of funds
           of the Project                        disbursed by
                                                 ABC for RCC
Page  8
                                                 Sub-loans
(2)  Machinery and equip-          360,000       100% of foreign
     ment under Part B                           expenditures and
     of the Project                              100% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory
                                                 cost) and 75%
                                                 of local ex-
                                                 penditures for
                                                 other items pro-
                                                 cured locally
(3)  Overseas fellowships,       1,090,000       100%
     staff training
     and consultant
     services under Part B
     of the Project
(4)  Unallocated                 7,350,000
                               ___________
          TOTAL                123,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
(1)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 4,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for the Sub-loans 
before that date but after June 1, 1987; and
(2)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of a Sub-loan unless: (i) the Sub-loan has been approved by the 
Association; or (ii) such Sub-loan is a free-limit Sub-loan approved by ABC after June 
1, 1987, for which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to stimulate growth and diversification 
of agriculture by expanding the availability of medium- and long-term credit; and (b) 
to support ABC's institutional development for increasing its operational efficiency.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Investment Program
 
1.
A program of Sub-loans to be provided by ABC to Sub-borrowers in the Project 
Provinces for the Investment Projects in:
(i)
the development of tree crops, including rubber, tea, coffee, 
gallnut and 
fruit;
 
(ii)
the development of livestock, including pig, sheep, goat and 
poultry and the 
related pasture and cattle development;
 
Page  9
(iii)
the development of aquaculture, particularly through the 
construction and 
rehabilitation of fish ponds; and
 
(iv)
the establishment of processing facilities, including those for 
fruit, 
oilseed, rubber, tea, animal and aquatic products as 
well as feed mills.
2.
A pilot program of Sub-loans to be provided by RCC for Investment Projects in 
activities described in paragraph 1 above except those that may be excluded by ABC 
with the consent of the
Association.
Part B:
Institutional Development of ABC
 
1.
Upgrading of ABC's national level colleges through the provision of overseas 
training and consulting services.
2.
Provision of ABC staff training in the Project Provinces.
 
3.
Carrying out of in-house reviews and studies in respect of ABC's system reform 
program.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to SDR 
10,200,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of  the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the 
Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
Page  10
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such documents and other 
evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was 
made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association when either 
of the following situations
first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible 
Categories, minus the amount of any outstanding 
special commitment entered 
into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the 
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the 
amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to  paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such 
deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association 
such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account.
