Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1871 CHA
(Third Rural Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA
Dated February 29, 1988
CREDIT NUMBER 1871 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 29, 1988 between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA (ABC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
one hundred twenty-three million eight hundred thousand  Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
123,800,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit 
Agreement, but only on condition that ABC agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and ABC, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to ABC on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
subsidiary loan agreement; and
WHEREAS ABC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ABC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and ABC shall otherwise agree, ABC shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Arrangements set forth in Part A 
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) ABC shall approve and present each of the Sub-loans to the 
Association for approval, or in the case of free-limit Sub-loans, for authorization to 
withdraw from the Credit Account, in accordance with the provisions of Part B of the 
Schedule to this Agreement.
(b)
ABC undertakes that each of the Sub-loans shall be made by means of 
written contract with the Sub-borrower or other appropriate legal arrangements, and 
under terms and conditions including those set forth in Part C of the Schedule to this 
Agreement.
(c)
ABC shall exercise, or cause RCC to exercise, its rights in respect of 
each Investment Project so as to: (i) protect the interests of the Association and 
ABC; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. ABC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.05. ABC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ABC shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to affect the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of 
the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) ABC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to 
the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
aBC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
Page  3
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by ABC of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.07. ABC shall ensure that proceeds of the Credit to be utilized for 
the Sub-loans are allocated in the Project Provinces in amounts satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 2.08. ABC shall carry out tea rehabilitation program in Yunnan Province 
in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.09. ABC shall: (a) by December 31, 1989, complete a review with 
Guizhou Province in respect of the progress in the implementation of the gallnut, 
pasture development and sheep
breeding programs on terms of reference acceptable to the Association in order to 
determine the advisability of expanding such programs; and (b) promptly upon its 
completion, consult with the
Association regarding the size and phasing of such programs.
Section 2.10. (a) ABC shall: (i) carry out a pilot program of RCC Sub-loans in 
accordance with criteria and lending terms acceptable to the Association, including 
those specified in Part D
of the Schedule to this Agreement; and (ii) to this end, cause RCCs to comply with 
procedural requirements and terms and conditions applicable to RCC Sub-loans specified 
in Parts B and D of
said Schedule.
(b)
Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, ABC shall: 
(i) initially carry out the pilot program referred to in paragraph (a) above in the 
Provinces of Anhui and Hubei; (ii) by December 31, 1989, complete a review with the 
Association in respect of the progress in the implementation of such program in order 
to determine the advisability of extending said program to other Project Provinces 
acceptable to the Association; and (iii) based on such review, extend such program to 
such other Project Provinces.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ABC
Section 3.01. ABC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, and agricultural practices under the 
supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. ABC shall, at the request of the Borrower or the Association, 
participate in the review described in Section 3.06 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. ABC shall inform the Association of any changes in the laws 
referred to in Section 4.01 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement which relate to 
the ability of ABC to carry out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ABC shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices: (i) the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project including the Special 
Account; and (ii) the operations and financial condition of ABC's provincial branches 
in the Project Provinces.
(b)
ABC shall:
 
(i)
cause to be audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association 
for each fiscal year: (A) the Project 
accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
above; and (B) the accounts and 
Page  4
financial statements of ABC's provincial 
branches in the 
Project Provinces (balance sheets, statements of income and 
expenses and related statements);
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the 
accounts and the financial statements for such 
year as so audited; and (B) the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and (C) the financial statements 
(balance 
sheet and statement of income and expenses) of ABC's provincial 
branches in the Project Provinces and ABC's total operations, for such year; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, ABC shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
separate records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such separate accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred 
to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report thereof contains, in 
respect of such separate accounts, a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
ABC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or 
 
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify
ABC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
Page  5
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall 
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such 
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For ABC:
Agricultural Bank of China
25 Fuxing Road
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
1053
22017 ABC CN
Beijing
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ABC may be 
taken or executed by its
President or such other person or persons as ABC's President shall designate in 
writing, and ABC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority 
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA
Page  6
By /s/ Han Xu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Project Implementation
Part A:
Project Implementation Arrangements
 
1.
ABC shall cause each of its provincial branches in the Project Provinces to 
maintain a Project Office, with staffing acceptable to the Association and ABC, to 
supervise and monitor the implementation of the Project in the respective Project 
Provinces, and to assist the county-level Project Units, under the guidance of the 
Project Management Committees referred to in Section 3.05 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
2.
ABC shall cause each of the county offices in the Project Provinces to establish 
and thereafter maintain a Project Unit to supervise and monitor all aspects of 
implementation of each such Investment Project.
3.
ABC shall: (a) maintain a staff training committee in a manner acceptable to the 
Association; (b) by June 30, 1988, appoint additional staff in adequate numbers in its 
four divisions concerned with staff training; and (c) by December 31, 1988, appoint 
ten new staff members in its Foreign Capital Management Division.
4.
ABC shall carry out the staff training under Part B.2 of the Project under a 
training program agreed between the Association and ABC, such training program to be 
reviewed by the Association and ABC on an annual basis.
5.
ABC shall furnish to the Association semi-annually the progress reports referred 
to in Section 9.06 (a) (iii) of the General Conditions within 60 days of the end of 
each six-month period.
6.
ABC shall: (a) carry out the studies under Part B.3 of the Project in accordance 
with terms of reference and timing agreed with the Association; and (b) furnish the 
result of such studies
to the Association for its review and comment promptly upon completion.
Part B:
Appraisal of Investment Projects and Approval of Sub-loans
 
1.
Investment Projects shall be appraised by ABC or by RCC under the supervision of 
ABC for the RCC Sub-loans, in accordance with the procedures and criteria set out in 
its project appraisal manual (August 1984). In addition, as part of this appraisal, 
ABC and RCC shall ensure that the Investment Projects shall be designed in conformity 
with appropriate guidelines on environmental control issued by the Project Provinces 
and acceptable to the Association.
2.
When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-loan) to the Association 
for approval, ABC shall furnish to the Association, an application, in form 
satisfactory to the Association, together with:
(a)
a description of the Sub-borrower and an appraisal of the Investment 
Project;
(b)
the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule 
of amortization therefor; and
(c)
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
 
ABC shall approve such a Sub-loan only after the Association has notified ABC of its 
approval.
3.
Each request by ABC for authorization to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain a list of Sub-projects by 
Page  7
Project Provinces in form and
content satisfactory to the Association.
4.
RCCs shall present a RCC Sub-loan to the Association for approval, or request 
authorization to make withdrawals in respect of a RCC Sub-loan, only through ABC 
pursuant to respective paragraphs 2 and 3 above.
5.
ABC shall furnish to the Association for its review and comment, the design and 
specifications of typical rubber and tea processing plants before the first Sub-loan 
in each such category is approved by ABC.
Part C:
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
 
1.
Sub-borrower shall contribute not less than thirty percent (30%) of the total 
cost of Investment Projects.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Sub-borrowers shall pay 
interest from time to time on the principal amount of Sub-loans withdrawn and 
outstanding, at ABC's (or RCC's in the case of the RCC Sub-loans) prevailing interest 
rate for similar loans for similar purposes.
3.
Amortization periods for Sub-loans shall be determined by ABC or RCC under the 
supervision of ABC, based on the estimated cash- flow of the Investment Project 
financed, and shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, provided however, that 
such amortization periods shall not exceed fifteen (15) years except as the 
Association may otherwise agree.
4.
The Sub-loan contracts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement shall 
provide, inter alia, for the right of ABC or RCC to:
(a)
require the Sub-borrower to carry out, and, where appropriate, operate 
the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, financial and
agricultural standards, and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Sub-loan: (i) be procured in accordance with Part E of this Schedule; and (ii) be 
used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association, if 
the Association shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and 
construction included in the investment Project, the operation thereof, and any 
relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that the Sub-borrower, if appropriate, take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall 
be consistent with sound
business practices;
(e)
obtain all such information as may be reasonably requested relating to 
the foregoing, to the administration, operations and financial condition of the 
Sub-borrower, as applicable, and to the benefits to be derived from the Investment 
Project; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Sub-borrower to the use of the 
proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such Sub-borrower to perform its obligations 
under the respective contract.
Part D:
On-lending Terms from ABC to RCCs
 
1.
ABC shall on-lend up to 50% of the total cost of Investment Projects receiving 
RCC Sub-loans. Normally, no RCC shall receive funds from ABC more than 30% of its 
average outstanding loans for the preceding three years.
2.
Interest applicable to funds on-lent to RCCs shall be at ABC's prevailing rates 
for similar loans to RCCs. 
Page  8
3.
ABC shall apply the same amortization schedule for its on-lending arrangements 
to RCCs as that determined by RCC for the Investment Projects as prescribed in 
paragraph 3 of Part C of this
Schedule.
4.
ABC shall hold all repayments received from RCCs in a separate account at its 
provincial branches in the Project Provinces and utilize amounts available in this 
account (after allowing for
repayments to the Borrower under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in respect of RCC 
Sub-loans) for further lending to RCCs on similar terms and conditions applicable 
under this Project.
Part E:
Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or group of items of machinery and equipment under Parts A.1 (iv) and B of 
the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more each shall be 
procured under contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures on 
the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of at least four 
qualified suppliers eligible from at least three different countries eligible under 
the Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of 
the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof). 
2.
Items or group of items of machinery and equipment under Parts A.1 (iv) and B of 
the Project less than the aggregate of $100,000 and breeding stock may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from 
a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Goods except for machinery, equipment and breeding stock covered under 
paragraphs 1 and 2 above, as well as civil works and services required for Investment 
Projects may be procured according to local procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures 
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to 
be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (a) (ii) of the Development Credit Agreement.
(d)
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
5.
In order to assist ABC in carrying out the Project, ABC shall employ consultants 
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
Page  9
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
