Safeguard Policy Issues                        IPP76
PROPOSED Third Urban Poverty Project
(a). Environmental Guidelines
Introduction
As a highly decentralized project and continuation of UPP 2, UPP 3 will support a large number
of small subproject investments in poor urban areas. Through the kelurahan grants, the project is
expected to provide micro loans for income generating activities, and finance small scale
infrastructure and other services (the ceiling for individual sub-projects or micro loans per group
is Rp. 30 million or US$3,750). Through the Poverty Alleviation Partnership Grant, the project is
expected finance small scale infrastructure and services (the ceiling for individual activities is Rp.
200 million or US$25,000). None of these types of activities is therefore expected to have any
large scale, significant or irreversible impacts. Environmental impacts come mostly from poor
site management during the project construction activity. The project has been classified as a
Bank environmental category B.
The menu for the Poverty Alleviation Partnership Grant (PAPG) is open, and kelurahan
organizations and local governments will choose the types of activities they want to finance.
Even though the activities are not restricted, it is unlikely that OPs regarding natural habitats and
cultural property would be applicable. This annex outlines the environmental screening
procedures and guidelines to ensure that the relevant OPs are followed should any negative
environmental impacts be expected.
Indonesia's environmental review procedure is generally consistent with the Bank's and will form
the framework for UPP 3's approach to environmental management. Because UPP 3 subprojects
will be small, no major adverse impacts are anticipated. However, the project will institute
screening, review, and "red-flag" procedures to help ensure that problems are flagged and
corrected.
Basic Principles
The basic environmental principles are:
I. proposals should avoid or minimize negative environmental impacts, and they should
have explored viable alternative designs to minimize any negative environmental impact;
2. the proposal should fit into the General Spatial Plan (RUTR) and avoid protected areas so
designated by the Ministry of the Environment (see below).
3. Any proposal entailing a negative environmental impact shall be complemented by an
environmental plan to mitigate the impact.
Environmental Screening Criteria
Subprojects will be checked against Government of Indonesia (GOI) screening criteria to ensure
that no project would necessitate a full environmental assessment. In an initial screening, the
project type, scale, location, sensitivity, and the nature and magnitude of potential impacts, will
be identified to classify the proposal in one of 4 categories:
FILE COPY


﻿1. those that require ANDAL (full Diwironmental Assessments) for which the Ministry of
Environment has set criteria (see below). These will be eliminated from consideration for
UPP 3 financing.
2. those that require environmental management and monitoring plans (UKL and UPL)
based on limited but site specific studies. The Ministry of Public Works has set criteria
to determine the need for UKL/UPL (see below). It is expected that none of the
proposals submitted under either the PAPG or kelurahan grants would fall under this
criteria.
3. those for which standard operating procedures (SOP) suffice, where generic good
practice would protect the environment adequately. The DG Human Settlements and
Urban and Rural Development have SOP guidelines for some types of projects (including
measures to control dust, noise and traffic at construction sites; specifications for
backfilling and revegetating disturbed areas to prevent erosion; and procedures to control
negative impacts at solid waste transfer stations; etc.). It is expected that some sub-
projects may fall under this category.
4. those that require no environmental study, where no construction, disturbance of land or
water or discharge of pollutants are involved. It is expected that some sub-projects may
fall under this category.
Government Environmental Screening Criteria
(by Decree of the Minister of State for the Environment of the Republic of Indonesia)
Sectors and Projects              Units       ANDAL         UKL/UPL
Water Suply
Raw water intake                      Us              250        -250-50
Transmission (large towns)            km              10          10- 2
Distribution (large towns)            ha              500        - 500 - 100
Urban roads
New construction:
a. Large towns                        km; or ha       5          5 - 1; or 5 - 2
b. Medium towns                       Km; or ha       10         10-3;or1O-5
c. Small towns (villages)             km              30         30 - 5
Widening (large towns)                kIn;            5          >= 10
(if land acquisition)
Bridges in large towns                m               -          >/= 20
Bridges in small towns                m               -          >/= 60
Wastewater & sanitation
IPLT                                  ha              2          -< 2 ha
Sewerage system                       ha              500        - < 500
IPAL                                  ha              3          -<3
Solid Waste Management
Sanitary landfill (TPA)               ha; or ton      10000      -
< 10; or < 10.000
TPA (in tidal area)                   ha; or ton      5000       -
<5; or <5000
Transfer station                                      1000       -<1000
Drainage & flood control
a. In large towns                     km              5          -
< 5; 5-1
b. In mediu ntowns                   an              10         -


﻿<10; 2-10
c. In small towns (villages)          km              25         ->5
Kampung Improvement
Large Towns                          ha               200        ->= 1
Medium Towns                          ha                         >= 2
-Upgrading                             ha               5          - >= I
Sources: KEP-1 7/MENLH/2001 for ANDAL (Concerning Types ofBusinesses Activities Required to
Complete an Environmental Impact Assessment); and KEPMEN PU- 17/KPTS/M/2003 for UKL/UPL
(Concerning Decisions on Types ofActivities in the Field of Public Works that are Required to Prepare
UPL and UKL).
Special screening will be applied on the following cases:
*  Fisheries: Standards from the Fishery Service Agency (Dinas Perikanan) will be applied
to all fishery subproject proposals.
*   Pesticide, ozone-depleting substances, tobacco or tobacco products: No subprojects
using or producing these materials will be financed.
*  Asbestos. No asbestos-containing materials will be financed. Special mitigation
measures to address any issues with existing asbestos in any proposed sub-project (e.g.
renovation of school buildings that may have used asbestos) will be applied.
*   Sub-projects that produce liquid or gaseous effluents or emissions. No manufacturing or
processing operations will be financed that would produce pollutant-bearing effluents or
emissions unless: (a) the operations are small-scale; and (b) the cognizant Bapedalda
reviews the design and certifies that it meets applicable water and air pollution control
standards.
*  Hazardous materials and wastes. No sub-project will be financed that uses, produces,
stores or transports hazardous materials (toxic, corrosive or explosive) or generates "B3"
(hazardous) wastes.
*  Logging. Sub-projects involving logging operations or procurement of logging
equipment will not be financed.
*   Development on protected areas. The Decree or the Minister of the State for the
Environment of the Republic of Indonesia Number KEP-17/MENLH/2001, entitled
Concerning the Types ofBusinesses Activities Required to Complete an Environmental
Impact Assessment, prescribes that any business or activity that is located in a protected
area or that may change the purpose and/or designation of a protected area shall be
required to prepare an ANDAL (see above). This includes: forest protection area; river
edges; marine/freshwater conservation areas; nature tourism park; peat areas; areas
surrounding lakes and reservoirs; coastal mangrove areas; water catchment areas;
national parks; coastal edges; forest parks; cultural reserves; areas surrounding springs;
scientific research areas; nature conservation areas; and areas susceptible to natural
hazards. No new settlement or expansion ofsettlements will be supported in protected
areas under the project. Where settlements already exist, and if it is the policy of the
local government to allow the settlement to remain, proposals for funding under UPP 3
may be used by the existing residents using standard UPP2 procedures and in compliance
with any local regulations on land management which are defined by the protected area
management plan. No road construction or rehabilitation of any kind will be allowed
inside delimited or proposed protected areas.
Design specifications including environment management consideration for water supply, MCK,
urban roads, TPS, markets and bridges will be applied to UPP 3 in the form of Standard


﻿Operating Procedures. Since these types of activities are most likely to be financed under the
PAPG, the SOP used by the participating local government will be applied.
Environmental Screening Process
1. Kelurahan Grants
Community groups (KSMs) will prepare a subproject proposal on a standard format provided by
the kelurahan facilitator, signed by the group members. The standard format will include all
items identified above that are not eligible for financing as part of the negative list. The proposals
will include a description of the activities proposed and compliance with any applicable
guidelines on environmental impacts (as well as land/asset aquisition and impact on indigenous
people). All proposals will be reviewed by project staff for their feasibility, technical soundness,
and compliance with guidelines, before they are considered by the kelurahan organization
(BKM). Project staff will specifically'screen proposals for any environmental impacts based on
the guidelines above which will be included in the project manuals. These will include special
screening for all sub-projects involving land and water use changes (i.e. reclamation, irrigation);
economic projects with environmental impacts to be sure that alignments, effluent, etc. meet best
practice standards. BKMs with the assistance of facilitators will ensure that adequate mitigation
measures are taken. The selection of proposals by the BKM for the kelurahan grant shall be made
in a meeting publicized in advance and open to the public.
2. Poverty Alleviation Partnership Grant (PAPG)
Proposals for the Poverty Alleviation Partnership Grant will be evaluated by a PAPG Selection
Committee established by the local government (with the assistance of project staff) consisting of
a panel of representatives from the local government, the BKM Forum, and
NGOs/universities/private individuals concerned about poverty issues. Sub-project proposals will
be prepared on a standard format which will include the negative list. The Selection Committee
can seek the help of technical experts from the Oversight Consultant (OC), from other
government offices or hire outside experts to carry out technical reviews of proposals if
necessary. All proposals will be screened for any environmental impacts based on the guidelines
above which will be included in the project manuals, and the OC will be in charge of ensuring
that adequate mitigation measures are taken. The process of selection of proposals by the PAPG
Selection Committee will be transparent, with clear criteria for selection.
Reporting
Facilitators and OC staff will aggregate and review environmental reports and flag them in their
quarterly reports. The project manual will include a matrix of likely environmental impacts and
steps with which to address them. An experienced environmental consultant will be hired to
summarize progress, monitor and measure the impact of the project on the environment as part of
the performance evaluation of the project.


﻿(b). Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework
I.   Project Characteristics
1. As a highly decentralized project, UPP3 will support a large number of small sub-project
investments, mainly in urban areas. Through the Kelurahan Grants component, the project is
expected to provide microloans for income generating activities, and to finance small scale
infrastructure and other services (the ceiling for individual sub-projects is US$3,750 or Rp. 30
million). Through the Poverty Alleviation Partnership Grant (PAPG) component, the project is
expected to finance small scale infrastructure and services (the ceiling for individual activities is
US$25,000 or Rp. 200 million). None of the sub-projects is expected have a significant impact
due to land acquisition and/or resettlement.
2. UPP3 is also a community-based demand-driven project. Sub-projects will not be identified
in advance. The identification of the number of people affected by a sub-project can thus only be
defined once sub-project proposals are evaluated by the community organization (BKM) for the
Kelurahan Grants, or by the PAPG Selection Committee for the Poverty Alleviation Partnership
Grant.
3. Since participatory planning and decision making form the basis for the project, the entire
project approach should guarantee that people affected by the project will be involved in the
decision making process.
4. Should any sub-project involve any land acquisition or resettlement, this Policy Framework
provides procedures and guidelines for agreeing on compensation for those persons who are
affected by the sub-project in order to ensure that they are not unfairly treated by being given low
compensation, or benefit unfairly by being given compensation that is significantly higher per
square meter than other owners who sell similar nearby land on the free market.
II. Definitions
5. The definitions used in this Policy Framework are:
a) "Census" means the head count of those persons under a proposed Sub-project that
qualify as Displaced Persons. The date of the Census is the latest cut-off point to
record the persons in the Sub-project area that will receive compensation,
resettlement and/or removal and rehabilitation assistance.
b) "Compensation" means the compensation at replacement cost as determined in
Section V of this Framework given in exchange for the taking of land and building,
in whole or in part, and all fixed assets on the land and buildings and crops and trees.
c) "Land acquisition" means an activity that requires obtaining land, buildings or other
assets from Displaced Persons for purposes of the sub-project against provision of
compensation and assistance.
d) "Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the involuntary taking of
land and other assets as part of the execution of the Sub-project resulting in a direct
economic and social adverse impact, whether or not said Displaced Persons must
physically relocate, had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected;
(ii) right, title, interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and
grazing land) or any other physical asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or
permanently, adversely affected; (iii) access to productive assets adversely affected,
temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of residence


﻿or habitat adversely affected; and "Displaced Person" means any of the Displaced,
Persons;
e) "Physically Displaced Persons" means persons who are forced to move from their
previous location because (i) all or a significant portion (50% or more) of their land
or buildings are affected by the sub-project; or (ii) less than 50% of their land or
buildings are affected by the sub-project if the remaining portion is not economically
viable or habitable.
f)  "Rehabilitation Assistance" means the provision of cash or assets or other forms of
support to enable Displaced Persons without legal rights to the assets taken by the
Project to at least equal or improve their standard of living, income levels and
production capacity to the level prior to the project.
g) "Resettlement" means an effort /activity to relocate the Displaced Persons into a
good new settlement as mentioned in section Vb so that they can develop a better
life.
h) "Involuntary Displacement" means any of the following actions, when they occur
without the Displaced Person's informed consent or power of choice; (a) the taking
of land resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) lost assets or access to assets;
or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not the Displaced
Person must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to
legally designated parks and protected areas resulting in adverse impacts on the
livelihoods of the displaced.
i) "Sub-project" means a specific infrastructure investment project carried out with
funds from Kelurahan Grant or PAPG components of the project.
HI. Basic Principles
6. Involuntary resettlement may cause severe long-term hardship, impoverishment, and
environmental damage unless appropriate measures are carefully planned and carried out. For
these reasons, the overall principles for this Framework are the following:
a) Sub-project proposals should minimize land and asset acquisition and involuntary
displacement. Groups proposing sub-projects should have explored viable alternative
designs to minimize displacement.
b) The group proposing the sub-project will use a transparent and participatory process
to ensure that all Displaced Persons persons agree on any proposed sub-project that
involves land acquisition or resettlement
c) The group proposing the sub-project will have to agree to incorporate the costs for
land acquisition and/or any involuntary resettlement in their sub-project proposals as
part of sub-project costs. The compensation costs will be covered through the
communities' own funds or government funds (World Bank Loan proceeds shall not
be used to finance compensation).
d) In accordance with traditional practice, community members may elect to voluntarily
contribute land or assets and/or relocate temporarily or permanently from their land
without compensation. Voluntary in this context will mean the donation or granting
of land and other assets with the full knowledge of the purposes for which the asset is
being made available and the economic, social and legal consequences that such an
act would have on the person providing the asset and which act is exercised freely
and voluntarily, without any type of cohesion.
e) Displaced Persons should be assisted in their efforts to improve their livelihoods and
standards of the living or at least to restore them, in real terms, to pre-displacement


﻿levels or to the levels pTcvailing prior to the beginning of the project implementation,
whichever is higher.
IV. Framework
7. In the event that a sub-project proposal requires any land acquisition, buildings, crops,
trees, and/or resettlement, the sub-project proposals have to indicate the need for land
acquisition, the number and names of persons affected, and the estimated budget required for
compensation.
8. Proposals that would affect 200 persons or more would normally entail long lead times,
and are expected to be beyond the scope of the project. In the highly unlikely event that more
than 200 persons will be affected and require compensation, the Oversight Consultant will
ensure that the proposal is complemented with a full Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Action Plan (LARAP). The LARAP will include i) a survey to identify the socio-economic
characteristics of the Displaced Persons including a census; ii) a comprehensive plan for the
acquisition of land and/or resettlement; and iii) a compensation package in accordance with
the compensation guidelines set out in Section V and acceptable to the Displaced Persons and
the groups proposing the sub-project (under the PAPG component, this would be the BKMs
and a district level local government agency). The sub-project proposal will also indicate the
budget source for the required compensation (Bank funds cannot be used for compensation).
The OC/NMC shall seek the Bank's approval of the LARA-P and budget, and seek
modifications in case the Bank finds they are needed. Further details on the LARAP are
provided in the attachment to this annex.
9. For any sub-project that requires resettlement of less than 200 persons, the BKM,
supported by the OC staff assisting with proposal preparation, will ensure that the following
steps are followed:
a) The group proposing the sub-project carries out a Census of the persons that would
be affected by the proposed sub-project and that would qualify as Displaced Persons
b) The Displaced Persons agree on the sub-project proposal, and have negotiated
agreement on either voluntary or compensated contribution with the group proposing
the sub-project
c) The agreement is made through a participatory and transparent process
d) Displaced Persons are made aware that they have the right to compensation and/or
other assistance according to the compensation guidelines provided in Section V
.e) In cases where voluntary contributions of land or assets are indicated, these are
clearly agreed with all Displaced Persons; the name(s) of the contributor(s) and
details of the contribution(s) are included in the agreement; and these are verified by
the Oversight Consultants.
f) A simple format on the agreement is incorporated in the sub-project proposal. This
agreement should clearly indicate individual land plots needed for land acquisition
and/or resettlement, the number and names of the affected persons, scheme of
compensation and/or resettlement, and estimated cost for land acquisition and/or
resettlement compensation. In the case of voluntary contribution, the agreement
should state the rationale for it and the fact that the person had the choice of not
providing the asset, and in the case of involuntary contribution, the manner followed
for valuation of the assests which must be in compliance with Section V below.
g) The agreement should indicate that any compensation will come from the
community's or government's contribution to the sub-project. It would be possible to


﻿use World Bank Loan proceeds to ,astruct small works and initiate employment
opportunities for the group members who are to be resettled. This has to be agreed by
the group proposing the sub-project and put in the agreement (see assistance
guidelines in Section V). However World Bank Loan proceeds can not be used to
finance payment of cash compensation or land acquisition.
h) The details of the agreement will be verified by the OC/facilitator in charge of the
affected communities prior to consideration by the BKM or the PAPG Selection
Committee for financing. In the event that no consensus has been reached on the
form and amount of compensation, the sub-project will not be considered for
financing.
i)  No Displaced Persons shall have their land or other assets taken before they have
received the compensation and the resettlement site, if that is the case, as agreed
upon and detailed in the sub-project proposal
j)  Payment of compensation, displacement of people, or preparation of a resettlement
site as agreed upon should be completed before the construction of the respective
sub-project is started.
k) A monitoring and evaluation system for compensation will be introduced to ensure
that Displaced Persons have received their compensation as agreed upon. The
monitoring will be undertaken by the Oversight Consultant and will be a full survey
or sample survey depending on the number of households affected. A report on the
results and recommendations will be published by the OC and disseminated to the
community and the NMC
V. Guidelines for Compensation, Resettlement and Other Assistance
10. Based on agreements reached during the negotiation, Displaced Persons can choose to
receive cash compensation, resettlement, or other options. Other options include serviced
sites, land [swap] of equal size or equal productive capacity, low cost housing, apartments,
real-estate housing with credit facilities, or other schemes. Among those options, Displaced
Persons will be provided the opportunity of having a resettlement site where they do not have
to pay more than their present routine expenditure. In all cases, the amount of compensation,
resettlement or other options must be sufficient to achieve the objectives of improving or at
least maintaining the pre-project level of standard of living, income generation and
production capacity of the Displaced Person.
a. Compensation
11. Displaced Persons have the right to receive real replacement cost compensation. Real
replacement cost means:
a) for land in urban areas, the pre-displacement market value of land of equal size and
use, with similar or improved public infrastructure facilities and services and located
in the vicinity of the affected land, plus the cost of any registration and transfer taxes;
b) for agricultural land, the pre-sub-project or pre-displacement, whichever is higher,
market value of land of equal productive potential or use located in the vicinity of the
affected land, plus the cost of land preparation to levels similar to those of affected
land, plus the cost of any registration and transfer taxes; and
c) for houses and other structures, the market cost of the materials to build a
replacement structure, or to repair a partially affected structure, plus the cost of


﻿transporting building materials to the constructioin site, plus the cost of any labor and
contractors' fees, plus the cost of any registration and transfer taxes. In determining
the replacement cost, depreciation of the asset and the value of salvage materials are
not taken into account, nor the value of benefits to be derived from the sub-project
deducted from the valuation of an affected asset. Compensation for trees, crops and
other assets will be based on the replacement value using existing market prices per
tree prepared by relevant agencies.
12. The extent of the compensation will depend on the tenure situation of the Displaced
Person as set out in Section VI.
13. Displaced Persons whose: (i) remaining land and building cannot be used for housing or
workplace; or (ii) whose remaining land is less than 60 sq meters; or (iii) whose remaining
agricultural land is less than 50% of its initial size or is not economically viable; or (iv)
whose remaining building is less than 21 sq meters; have the option of being included as
Physically Displaced Persons and compensated for the taking of the affected asset. Displaced
Persons whose remaining land is less than 60 sq meters and remaining building is less than 21
sq meters, will have an option to move to a new lot of 60 sq meters and building of 21 sq
meters. They will be provided with compensation for the difference in area between what
they lost and what is being provided to them.
b.     Resettlement Sites
14. The resettlement site provided for the Displaced Persons will include infrastructure and
public facilities so that it is good for living and enables the development of a good social and
economic life, including: (a) road or footpath as necessary; (b) drainage system; (c) water
supply (if a piped water distribution network is not available, there should be shallow wells
that comply with health standards); (d) electricity; (e) health facility, education facility, work
places, religious services, and sport facilities, in accordance with the size of the new
community; and (f) public transport facility to perform a good life.
15. The Displaced Persons will move to the new site after the infrastructure and facilities at
the resettlement site are completed and feasible to live in as confirmed by the OC and the
BKM. The Displaced Persons will be informed of the completion of the resettlement site at
least one month before displacement, and they will be invited to survey the new site. The
resettlement site would be available prior to the start-up of works under the relevant sub-
project.
16. The location reserved for resettlement will be widely publicized so that the general public
will be informed.
c. Other Assistance
17. Displaced Persons who lose their income sources or means of livelihood as a result of the
sub-project will receive assistance to restore it. The types of assistance will be defined by the
BKM and local government (in case of the PAPG) and confirmed by the OC. Training and
assistance that can be provided include: motivation development; skill and vocational
training; assistance to start and develop small businesses; small scale credit; marketing
development; assistance during transition period; and strengthening of community based
organization and services. In implementing the assistance, care should be taken to harmonize


﻿the newly resettled people and the host community in the resettlement area *trough assistance
and integration efforts. The assistance can be linked to existing programs and resources.
VI. Eligibility Criteria of Displaced Persons
18. Displaced Persons can be grouped into the following categories: i) those who have legal
land certificate, girik, or adat title; ii) those who, under domestic law, have a right to occupy
land in a residential, commercial, or industrial zone in the Project area, or occupy land on
infrastructure or public facility sites such as rivers, roads, parks or other public facilities in
the Project area, but do not hold a certificate or legal title; iii) those who have no right to
occupy land in a residential, commercial or industrial zone in the project area or publicly
owned land and publicly owned facility sites but who were occupying such land at the time of
the Census undertaken or at the time of the pre-feasibility study of the sub-project; iv) those
who are renters; v) those whose jobs are lost because of the taking of land; and vi) those who
have no right to occupy land in a residential, commercial or industrial zone in the project
area, or publicly owned land and publicly owned facility sites and whose occupancy of such
land begins after the Census. Compensation will differ according to these groupings.
a) Persons with Land Certificate, Girik or Adat Title
§ Displaced Persons who have land certificate, girik, or adat title will receive
compensation for the land, building, and fixed assets.
§ Displaced Persons who are displaced by the Project can choose to receive cash
compensation or the other options as described in paragraph 10
§ The lots at the resettlement site will have land title of the same level or higher than
they previously had, and the certificate will be issued within 1 year after
displacement of the Displaced Persons.
§ Displaced Persons will receive transport allowance to move their belongings.
§ Displaced Persons will also receive assistance and training as provided in
paragraph 17
b) Persons who under domestic law have recognized rights to occupy land in a
residential, commercial or industrial zone in the Project area but who do not hold a
Land Certificate or legal documents, as well as those who occupy publicly owned
land and publicly owned facility sites under customary rights at the time of the
Census:
§ Displaced Persons will receive compensation for their land, building and fixed
assets, as well as for crops and trees at market value
§ Displaced Persons can choose to receive cash compensation or the other options
as described in paragraph 10
§ The lots at the new site will have Hak Pakai or a higher land title, and the
certificate will be issued within 1 year after the displacement.
§ Displaced Persons will receive transport allowance to move their belongings.
§ Displaced Persons will also receive assistance and training as provided in
paragraph 17
c) Persons who have no right to occupy land in a residential, commercial or industrial
zone in the project area or publicly owned land and publicly owned facility sites in
the project area, but who were occupying such land at the time of the Census
undertaken or at the time of the pre-feasibility study of the sub-project:
§ Displaced Persons will receive rehabilitation assistance in any of the forms
provided for in paragraph 10 instead of compensation for the land occupied in an


﻿amount sufficient to achieve the objectives of this Framework, and compensMion
at real replacement cost for the building, and fixed assets as well as for crops and
trees at market value
§ Displaced Persons can choose to receive cash compensation or the other options
as described in paragraph 10
§ The lots at the new site will have Hak Pakai or a higher land title, and the
certificate will be issued within 1 year after the displacement.
§ Displaced Persons will receive transport allowance to move their belongings.
§ Displaced Persons will also receive assistance and training as provided in
paragraph 17
d) Persons who are renters
§ Displaced Persons who are renters will be assisted with an allowance of six
months rent calculated on the basis of average rent levels for similar houses or
agricultural land within the same area.
§ Displaced Persons who are renters will also receive assistance and training and
transport allowance to move their belongings
e) Persons whose jobs are lost because of the taking of land where they work and
gained their income will be assisted with the forms of assistance described in
paragraph 17.
f) Persons who have no right to occupy land in a residential, commercial or industrial
zone in the project area or publicly owned land and publicly owned facility sites and
whose occupancy of such land begins after the Census will receive no compensation
or rehabilitation assistance for the land or for the structures built and crops planted
therein.
VII.   Consultation and Complaint Resolution
19. This general framework will be included in the Project manuals and guidelines, and OC
staff and facilitators trained in its implementation. The overall project approach in enabling
transparency and consultation should allow solutions to local problems locally, quickly, and
effectively. If any Displaced Persons or other community members have a complaint
regarding the framework or its application in practice, the project has an established system
of complaint handling at the kelurahan and kotalkabupaten as well as provincial and national
levels, with dedicated staff in charge of handling and following up on complaints.
Complaints which cannot be solved locally through the BKM complaint system will be
referred to the OC, and, if necessary to the NMC and the PMU. However, in the event that
the deliberations have been repeatedly conducted over a long period of time, but not
exceeding one year, to reach a consensus but no consensus has been reached on the form and
amount of compensation, dispute resolution will follow Presidential Decree No. 55 of 1993.
The Decree stipulates that after failure to reach agreement with sub-project group, the owner
has the right to object to the Governor (see clause 20(1)), who may conduct further
negotiations (see clause 20(2)). If the owner is still not satisfied, the governor must refer the
case to the Minister of Home Affairs and Minister of Justice (see clause 21 (1) and (2)), for
consideration and referral to the President of the Republic of Indonesia for a final decision
(see clause 21 (3) and (4)).
20. The progress of implementation of any required land acquisition, resettlement, and
assistance will be reported to the Bank regularly by the OC/NMC. If required, an


﻿independent reviewer may lo.cetained to carry out external monitoring and evaluation of the
implementation of specific LARAPs. Such an agency or agencies will have qualified and
experienced staff and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.


﻿Attachment 1
Requirements for a Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan (LARAP)
for sub-projects under the Poverty Alleviation Partnership Grant
affecting more than 200 persons
1. If a sub-project proposal indicates that more than 200 persons will be affected by the sub-
project, the groups proposing the sub-project (BKMs and district level local government
agency), assisted by the Oversight Consultant, will be required to conduct a Census and
socio-economic survey to: (i) determine the number of persons involved; (ii) to collect data
about the social and economic condition of the people, and the physical condition of the
Project area; and (iii) to determine the potential impact of the sub-project.
2. The date of this Survey/Census will be the latest cut-off point to record the persons in the
sub-project area that will receive compensation, resettlement and/or removal and
rehabilitation assistance.
3. The detailed census and socio-economic survey (hereafter referred to as the socio-
economic survey) will cover among others:
i) the size, condition, legal status of land and buildings (listed in impact groups of 0-
25%, 25-50%, 50-75%, 75-100% affected);
ii) the number of Displaced Persons and households;
iii) relevant social characteristics of the Displaced Persons (age, gender, education, etc)
iv) relevant economic characteristics of the Displaced Persons such as livelihoods
(including, as relevant, production levels and income derived from both formal and
informal economic activities); standards of living (including health status)
v) the magnitude of the expected loss - total or partial - of assets, and the extent of
displacement, physical or economic; and
vi) information on vulnerable groups or persons for whom special provisions may have
to be made
4. Based on the results of this socio-economic survey, the Oversight Consultant will assist
the groups proposing the sub-project to prepare a comprehensive plan on the taking of assets
for purposes of the sub-project, and the provision of compensation, resettlement, and
rehabilitation assistance for the Displaced Persons in accordance with the principles of this
Policy Framework. This will be described in a Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action
Plan (LARAP) to be furnished to the Bank for approval.
5. The scope and level of detail of the LARAP will vary with the magnitude and complexity
of the resettlement. The plan will be based on up-to-date and reliable information about: (a)
the proposed resettlement and its impacts on the Displaced Persons and other adversely
affected groups; and (b) the legal issues involved in resettlement. The following list defines
the matters that should normally be included LARAP and it should be regarded as general
guidance in the preparation of a LARAP. When any matter listed is not relevant to Project
circumstances, it should be noted in the resettlement plan:
i) Description of Sub-Project Impact and Analyses
§  Description of the sub-project and identification of the sub-project area.
§  Identification of: (i) the sub-project component or activities that give rise to
resettlement; (ii) the zone of impact of such component or activities; (iii) the


﻿alternatives considered to avoid or minimize resettlement; and (iv) the
mechanisms established to minimize resettlement, to the extent possible, during
implementation.
§   The main objectives of the resettlement program
§   The findings of the socioeconomic studies
§   The findings of an analysis of the legal framework
§   The findings of an analysis of the institutional framework
§  The definition of Displaced Persons and criteria for determining their eligibility
for compensation and other resettlement assistance, including relevant cut-off
dates
ii) Methodologies and Procedures
§  The methodology to be used in valuing losses to determine their replacement
cost; a description of the proposed types and levels of compensation under local
law and such supplementary measures as are necessary to achieve the real
replacement cost for lost assets
§  A description of the strategy for consultation and participation of resettlers and
hosts in the design and implementation of the resettlement activities including;
a summary of the views expressed and how these views were taken into
account in preparing the resettlement plan;
a review of the resettlement alternatives presented and the choices made by
Displaced Persons regarding options available to them, including choices
related to forms of compensation and resettlement assistance, to relocating as
individuals families or as parts of preexisting communities or kinship groups,
to sustaining existing patterns of group organization, and to retaining access
to cultural property;
institutionalized arrangements by which displaced people can communicate
their concerns to Project authorities throughout planning and implementation,
and
measures to ensure that groups such as isolated vulnerable people, the
landless, and women are adequately represented.
iii) Compensation Package
§   Description of the packages of compensation and other resettlement measures
that will assist each category of eligible Displaced Persons to achieve the
objectives of the Policy Framework. Compensation will be calculated based on
Section V of the Policy Framework.
iv) Alternative Relocation
§   Institutional and technical arrangements for identifying and preparing relocation
sites, whether rural or urban, for which a combination of productive potential,
locational advantages, and other factors is at least comparable to the advantages
of the old sites;
§   Estimated time needed to acquire and transfer land and ancillary resources;
§  Any measures necessary to prevent land speculation or influx of ineligible
persons at the selected sites;
§   Procedures for physical relocation under the sub-project, including timetables for
site preparation and transfer;
§   Legal arrangements for regularizing tenure and transferring titles to resettlers;
§  Plans to provide, or to finance resettlers' provision of housing, infrastructure and
social serviccs (which cnsurc comparablk-scrviccs to host populations); and any


﻿necessary site development, engineering, and architectural designs for these
facilities
§   A description of the boundaries of the relocation area; and assessment of the
environmental impacts of the proposed resettlement and measures to mitigate and
manage these impacts (coordinated as appropriate with the environmental
assessment of the main investment requiring the resettlement).
§   Measures to mitigate the impact of resettlement on any host communities.
v) Implementation of resettlement
§   The organizational framework for implementing resettlement, including
identification of agencies responsible for delivery of resettlement measures and
provision of services.
§   An implementation schedule covering all resettlement activities from preparation
through implementation, including target dates for the achievement of expected
benefits to resettlers and hosts and terminating the various forms of assistance.
vi) Costs
§   Detailed cost of the full compensation package, resettlement costs and all
associated implementation costs
§   Identification of sources of financing (Bank funds cannot be used to finance cash
compensation or land acquisition.)
vii) Monitoring and grievance procedures
§   Arrangements for monitoring of resettlement activities by the implementing
agency, supplemented by independent monitors as considered appropriate by the
Bank.
§   Description of grievance procedures
6. There will be regular consultations with all Displaced Persons, and all other stakeholders
including non-governmental organizations throughout the design and implementation of the
LARAP.
7. The LARAP described above will be prepared jointly by the BKM(s) and local
government agenc(ies) proposing the sub-project, with the assistance of the Oversight
Consultants and will thereafter be provided to the Bank through the OC/NMC for approval.
Once Bank approval is obtained, it will be issued as a Decree of the head of the district level
local government (the Bupati or Walikota). Once the Decree has been issued, it will be
disseminated by the OC and relevant govemment offices to the Project Affect Persons.
8. Issuance of approval for contract signing for a sub-project that requires a LARAP will be
considered by the Bank after receipt of a progress report from the OC/NMC that indicates
substantial implementation of the LARAP, including acquisition of all land in critical
locations.
9. The LARAP, including all its maps and annexes, will be publicly displayed at the NMC
and relevant OC office,


﻿c. Framework'For Treatment of Isolated, Vulnerable Peoples
Obiectives
The design of this project is structured to ensure the participation and inclusion of various groups
within communities in local level decision making over resource allocation. However, the project
recognizes that Isolated, Vulnerable People form a particular group that merit a different
approach and specific support. Therefore, the following framework for addressing isolated and
vulnerable people will be adopted for the project.
The objectives of this framework are to:
*   Ensure that isolated and vulnerable isolated and vulnerable people benefit from the project;
and
*   Avoid or minimize potentially adverse effects of the project on isolated and vulnerable
people.
Definition
For the purposes of this project, isolated and vulnerable groups are defined as those that present
varying degrees of the following characteristics:
I. a close attachment to ancestral territories and to the natural resources in these areas;
2. self-identification and identification by others as members of a distinct cultural group;
3. an isolated and vulnerable language, different from the common regional language (e.g.
Javanese);
4. the presence of customary social and political institutions; and
5. primarily subsistence-oriented production
Guidelines
Isolated and vulnerable people are not prevalent in all the project sites-they are likely to be
found in particular kota/kabupaten of particular provinces. The following steps will be taken to
ensure that, where isolated and vulnerable groups exist, the project caters to their specific needs.
1. During the facilitator training, facilitators will be trained in the identification of isolated and
vulnerable people. Through the Community Self Survey exercise and poverty reflections,
facilitators will identify the presence and numbers of isolated and vulnerable groups in the
community and report this to the OCs.
2. For the areas where isolated and vulnerable groups are identified, OCs will organize an
orientation training for relevant facilitators in how to work with isolated and vulnerable
groups in a useful way to identify mechanisms for effective participation, and address
specific challenges in working with such groups, for example, how to deal with groups that
may be in conflict with the larger community, etc.
3. Since facilitators will be hired locally to the extent possible, they are expected to be familiar
with such groups. They will also be rotated as necessary to ensure that those that have been
trained in working with isolated and vulnerable groups, or have specific skills that would be
beneficial in working with such groups, are made available in the right places. Management
of facilitators will be handled by the OCs.


﻿4. Where isolated and vulnerable groups are identified, efforts will be made to ensure that at
least one Community Cadre is from the group and able to communicate easily with the group.
5. Where the isolated and vulnerable group speaks a language different from Bahasa Indonesia,
relevant brochures and documents will be translated in the appropriate language. Provision
has been made in the project budget to allow for additional translations of relevant project
documents.
These steps will be aimed at ensuring that isolated and vulnerable people participate fully in the
project, are aware of their rights and responsibilities, and are able to voice their needs during the
Community Self Survey exercise and in the formulation of the Community Development Plan. In
addition, they will be encouraged to submit sub-project proposals that cater to their group's
needs.
Monitoring and Grievance Procedures
The Terms of References for the OC and NMC include the responsibility for monitoring the
treatment of isolated and vulnerable people in the project. Where isolated and vulnerable people
are identified, the OCs will be required to report on their participation in the project. Provisions
will be made in the MIS system to monitor the involvement of isolated and vulnerable people.
This will be followed by the NMC as well as monitored during supervision missions.
The project has a complaint system that allows community members to raise issues or complaints
at various levels-at the kelurahan level, at the OC level (either at kota/kabupaten or province
level), and at the national level. There are designated staff at the OC and NMC responsible for
following up on complaints and ensuring that they are handled adequately. Where isolated and
vulnerable people are concerned, the facilitator/OC will ensure that grievance redress
mechanisms are developed in culturally appropriate ways in close collaboration with the relevant
group.
Project evaluation studies will include monitoring and evaluation of the impact of the project on
isolated and vulnerable people.


