Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4063-IND 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Third Urban Poverty Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 2, 2005 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 4063-IND 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated August 2, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the 
financing of the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower 
and the Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is making a loan to the Borrower in the 
amount of sixty seven million three hundred thousand  Dollars ($67,300,000) (the Loan); 
and 
 
(C) 
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan 
provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004) (the General Conditions), with the modification set forth below (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
Section 6.03(c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive”.  
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
Page  4
-
2
-
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“BAPPEDA” means the Provincial, Kabupaten or Kota Development 
Planning Agency established and operating within a province of the Borrower, a 
Kabupaten or a  Kota, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
“BKM Forum” means a forum of BKM representatives at the Kecamatan 
and Kota level for the exchange of experience and collective actions relating to poverty 
alleviation. 
 
(c) “BKM” 
means 
Badan Keswadayaan Masyarakat
,
a
Kelurahan level 
organization with elected members, legally empowered by registering as an association to 
act on behalf of the Kelurahan community to take actions aimed at reducing poverty in 
the Project Kelurahan. 
 
(d) 
“Bupati” means the head of a Kabupaten. 
 
(e) 
“Camat” means the head of a Kecamatan. 
 
(f) 
“Community Development Plan” means the three-year investment plan 
prepared by the BKM, in accordance the procedures and criteria set out in the Project 
Manual, for poverty alleviation activities in the Project Kelurahan. 
 
(g) 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of 
the Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss of shelter; 
(B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or means of 
livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; or (ii) the 
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting 
in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person, and “Displaced Persons” means, 
collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
 
(h) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
(i) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement. 
 
(j) 
“Environmental Guidelines” means the guidelines adopted by the 
Borrower through KIMPRASWIL on January 29, 2004, setting forth the measures and 
actions to be taken during the implementation of the Project to eliminate or offset adverse 
environmental impacts or to reduce such impacts to acceptable levels in the design and 
implementation of Sub-projects, as such guidelines may be amended from time to time 
with the prior agreement of the Association. 
Page  5
-
3
-
(k) 
“Evaluation Consultants” means the team of consultants referred to 
under Part D.3 of the Project. 
 
(l) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and “FMR” mean each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
 
(m) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing January 1 
and ending December 31. 
 
(n) 
“Grant” means either a Kelurahan Grant or a Poverty Alleviation 
Partnership Grant, as the case may be. 
 
(o) 
“Grantee” and “Grantees” mean a person or persons, respectively, 
responsible for the carrying out of a Sub-project under Parts B.1, B.3 and C of the 
Project. 
 
(p) 
“Highly Vulnerable Groups” means groups of peoples, including 
widows, the elderly and the disabled, having special poverty alleviation needs and to be 
addressed in the Community Development Plan. 
 
(q) 
“Isolated Vulnerable People” means those social groups in Indonesia that 
have a distinct social and cultural identity, and that are susceptible to being disadvantaged 
in the development process induced by the Project or any part thereof. 
 
(r) 
“Isolated Vulnerable Peoples Framework” means the framework adopted 
by the Borrower through KIMPRASWIL on January 29, 2004, setting forth the measures 
and actions to be taken during the implementation of the Project for: (i) the informed 
involvement of Isolated Vulnerable People, through a process of informed participation, 
in the design and implementation of each Sub-project to be, or being, carried out in a 
location in which such people reside or use for their livelihood; and (ii) designing and 
implementing mitigation measures on possible impacts of the Project on Isolated 
Vulnerable People which are socially and culturally acceptable to them; as such 
framework may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the 
Association. 
 
(s) 
“Kabupaten” means a district, an administrative division of the 
Borrower. 
 
(t) 
“Kecamatan” means an administrative sub-district of a Kabupaten. 
 
(u) 
“Kelurahan Grant” means a grant made available by the Borrower out of 
the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan to a Grantee or Grantees for a Sub-project under 
Part B.1 and B.3 of the Project. 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
(v) 
“Kelurahan” and “Desa” mean an urban section of a Kecamatan. 
 
(w) 
“Kelurahan-borrower” and “Kelurahan-borrowers” mean a person and 
persons, respectively, responsible for the carrying out of a Sub-project under Part B.2 of 
the Project. 
 
(x) 
“KIMPRASWIL” means the former Ministry of Settlements and 
Regional Infrastructure of the Borrower.  
 
(y) 
“Kota” means a municipality, an administrative division within a 
province of the Borrower. 
 
(z) “KPKD” 
means 
Komite Penanggulangan  Kemiskinan Daerah
,
a
forum 
established by a Bupati or Wali Kota to coordinate poverty alleviation initiatives at the 
local level. 
 
(aa) 
“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan" means a resettlement 
and rehabilitation action plan, acceptable to the Association, prepared and implemented 
by a BKM or a Project Kabupaten or Project Kota, pursuant to the Land Acquisition and 
Resettlement Policy Framework and paragraph 11 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
(bb) 
“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Land 
Acquisition and Resettlement Policy adopted by the Borrower through KIMPRASWIL on 
January 29, 2004, setting forth the measures and actions to be taken during the 
implementation of the Project for the provision of compensation, rehabilitation and 
resettlement assistance to Displaced Persons, as such framework may be amended from 
time to time with the prior agreement of the Association. 
 
(cc) 
“Loan Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between 
the Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time 
to time; and such term includes the “General Conditions applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as 
amended through May 1, 2004), as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement. 
 
(dd) 
“Lurah” means the head of a Kelurahan. 
 
(ee) 
“MPW” means the Ministry of Public Works of the Borrower and any 
successor thereto. 
 
(ff) 
“National Management Consultants” means the team of consultants 
within the Project Management Unit at the central level to assist in Project 
implementation and monitoring. 
 
Page  7
-
5
-
(gg) 
“Oversight Consultants” means the team of consultants and facilitators at 
the provincial and district level to assist Project Kotas, Project Kabupatens and Project 
Kelurahans with Project implementation and monitoring.
(hh) 
“PJOK PAPG” means a Project manager at the Kota and Kabupaten 
level. 
(ii) 
“PJOK” means a Project manager at the Kecamatan level.  
 
(jj) 
“Poverty Alleviation Partnership Grant” means a grant made out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the Loan to a Grantee or Grantees for a Sub-project under Part 
C
of the Project. 
 
(kk) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
March 9, 2004, covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation. 
 
(ll) 
“Project Kabupaten” means a Kabupaten participating in the Project. 
(mm) 
“Project Kecamatan” means a Kecamatan  participating in the Project.  
(nn) 
“Project Kelurahan” means a Kelurahan participating in the Project. 
(oo) 
“Project Kota” means a Kota participating in the Project. 
(pp) 
“Project Management Unit” means the unit established in MPW.  
(qq) 
“Project Manual” means the Project Manual, adopted by the Borrower, to 
assist the Borrower, including central government ministries, the PMU, the BAPPEDA of 
provinces of the Borrower, Project Kotas, Project Kabupatens, Project Kecamatans and 
Project Kelurahans, and BKMs in the implementation of the Project through the 
description of, among others, procurement procedures and standard documentation as set 
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, reporting requirements as set forth in Article 4 of 
this Agreement, the Project Performance Indicators as set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, the Environmental Guidelines, the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy 
Framework, the Isolated Vulnerable People Framework, maintenance provisions for 
works to be carried out under a Sub-project and criteria for the selection of Sub-projects 
as set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such Project Manual may be amended 
from time to time with the agreement of the Association. 
(rr) 
“Rupiah” and “Rp” means the currency of the Borrower. 
(ss) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
Page  8
-
6
-
(tt) 
“Sub-loan” means a loan made to a Kelurahan-borrower or Kelurahan-
borrowers for a Sub-project under Part B.2 of the Project out of funds made available by 
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(uu) 
“Sub-project” means a specific infrastructure investment project, social 
services project, income-generating investment project or social welfare project selected 
pursuant to criteria and procedures set forth in the Project Manual and carried out under 
Parts B and C of the Project and utilizing the proceeds of a Grant or a Sub-loan. 
(vv) 
“Sub-project Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to be 
entered into among the relevant: (i) Grantee or Grantees, BKM, and PJOK for purposes 
of implementing the activities under a Sub-project under Parts B.1, B.3 and C of the 
Project; and (ii) Kelurahan-borrower or Kelurahan-borrowers, BKM and PJOK for 
purposes of implementing the activities under a Sub-project under Part B.2 of the Project. 
(ww) “UPK” 
means 
Unit Pengelola Keuangan
,
the financial management unit 
responsible for the management of funds for the BKM. 
(xx) 
“Wali Kota” means the head of a Kota. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to forty seven million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 47,400,000). 
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: (i) for 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on 
account of a Grant or a Sub-loan made under Parts B and C of the Project to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for a Sub-project and in respect of 
which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost 
of goods and services required for Parts A and D of the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2011, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Page  9
-
7
-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on May 15 and November 15, in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
May 15 and November 15, commencing November 15, 2015, and ending May 15, 2040, 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2025, shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
’s creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
Page  10
-
8
-
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
(5) years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, engineering and financial practices, and sound environmental and social 
standards, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Page  11
-
9
-
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the  
Association not later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement 
Plan, for the Association’s approval. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or 
such other period agreed to by the Association): (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
Page  12
-
10 - 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of  reports referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of  statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section.  
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 13 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
Page  13
-
11 - 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and 
shall cover such calendar quarter. 
Section 4.03.  The Borrower shall make publicly available, and agrees that the 
Association may also make publicly available, each final audit report referred to in 
Section 4.01 of this Agreement, promptly after its issuance by the independent auditors 
referred to therein. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely that the Project Manual, acceptable to the 
Association, has been adopted by the Borrower. 
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely that each of the Isolated Vulnerable 
People Development Plan and the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework 
has been adopted by the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in 
accordance with the laws of the Republic of Indonesia. 
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
Page  14
-
12 - 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
c/o Directorate General of Treasury 
 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
 
P.O. Box 1139 
 
Jakarta 10710 
 
Indonesia 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
FINMINISTRY  
 
45799 DJMLN-IA 
(21) 381 2859 
 Jakarta 
   44319 
DEPKEU-IA 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
Page  15
-
13 - 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
By: /s/ Jusuf Anwar 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Kundhavi Kadiresan 
Authorized Representative 
Page  16
-
14 - 
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in 
each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the  
Credit Allocated 
(Expressed in  
SDR Equivalent
)
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollars
)
%
of
Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1)  Kelurahan Grants  
and Sub-loans  
37,400,000 
25,100,000 
100% of Grant or 
Sub-loan amount 
disbursed 
 
(2) Poverty Alleviation 
 
Partnership Grants 
-
30,900,000
100%
of Grant 
amount disbursed 
 
(3) Consultants’ services 
 
under Parts A and D 
 
of
the Project 
10,000,000 8,300,000 
100% 
 
(4) Fee 
- 
336,500 
Amount due under 
Section 2.04 of the 
Loan Agreement 
 
(5) Unallocated 
 
TOTAL 
 
-
_________ 
 
47,400,000
2,663,500 
________ 
 
67,300,000
Page  17
-
15 - 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
3. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) Kelurahan Grants and Sub-
loans; (ii) Poverty Alleviation Partnership Grants; (iii) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms costing up to $100,000 equivalent; and (iv) contracts for the 
employment of individuals costing up to $50,000 equivalent; all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
4. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements).  In 
the case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has 
been made from the Credit Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Association only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-
month period following the date of such request.  
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars, 
a
special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or in a commercial bank acceptable to the 
Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including, in the 
case of a commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 of Part B of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
Page  18
-
16 - 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in paragraph 4 of Part A of this Schedule adequately provide the information required for 
Report-based Disbursements;  
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account; or 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Part B of this Schedule if, at 
any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
Page  19
-
17 - 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement. 
Page  20
-
18 - 
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $14,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.  
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.  
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 3 of Part B of this Schedule 1 for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Page  21
-
19 - 
Eligible Expenditures.  Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  22
-
20 - 
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.  Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: 
(a) 
the amount so requested; and 
(b) 
the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in paragraph 4 of Part A of Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following the date of such reports. 
Page  23
-
21 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to provide improved 
services for the urban poor and strengthen community and government institutions for 
responsive service delivery. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Community Development and Local Government Capacity Building
1.   
Carrying out of poverty awareness-raising activities in Project Kelurahans, 
including national level public campaigns, Kelurahan level workshops, and training of 
community volunteers, to encourage communities: (i) to discuss the nature of poverty in 
the Project Kelurahans and methods to address poverty and; (ii) to carry out community 
self-surveys.  
2.     
Establish a BKM or strengthen an existing BKM though the provision of 
technical assistance and training. 
3.  
Preparation of a Community Development Plan by the BKM in each Project 
Kelurahan, on the basis of the community self-survey and provision of technical 
assistance. 
4.    
Carrying out of: (a) poverty awareness-raising training for Project Kelurahan 
cadres and other relevant stakeholders; (b) leadership training for BKM and Kelurahan 
cadres; (c) Project cycle training for community groups, BKM members, UPK, PJOK, 
and Kelurahan cadres; and (d) training in specific skills required for Project 
implementation for relevant community groups, BKM members, UPK, PJOK, Kelurahan 
cadres and facilitators. 
5.    
Provision of technical assistance to BKMs for the establishment of BKM Forums 
and provision of technical assistance and training to BKM Forums. 
6.   
Establishment of KPKDs and strengthening of existing KPKDs through the 
carrying out of capacity building activities, including awareness raising in poverty 
alleviation and training in participatory planning and budgeting. 
Page  24
-
22 - 
Part B
:
Kelurahan Grants and Sub-loans
1. 
Carrying out of infrastructure investment and social services Sub-projects in 
Project Kelurahans, through the provision of Kelurahan Grants to Grantees.  
2. 
Carrying out of income-generating investment Sub-projects in Project 
Kelurahans, through the provision of Sub-loans to Kelurahan-borrowers. 
3. 
Carrying out of social welfare Sub-projects in Project Kelurahans through the 
provision of Kelurahan Grants to Highly Vulnerable Groups. 
Part C
:
Poverty Alleviation Partnership Grants
Carrying out of infrastructure investment and social services Sub-projects 
benefiting more than one Project Kelurahan, through the provision of Poverty Alleviation 
Partnership Grants to Grantees.  
Part D
:
Strengthening Project Implementation Agencies
1. 
Strengthening the Project Management Unit’s capacity in Project implementation 
and monitoring through the provision of technical assistance by the National 
Management Consultants. 
2. 
Strengthening the capacity of provincial-level BAPPEDAs, Project Kotas, 
Project Kecamatans and Project Kelurahans in Project implementation and monitoring 
through the provision of technical assistance by the Oversight Consultants. 
3. 
Carrying out evaluations of the impact of the Project on poverty in Project 
Kelurahans, including provision of technical assistance by the Evaluation Consultants. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2010.
Page  25
-
23 - 
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Guidelines), the provisions of the 
Annex to this Schedule 3  and the  provisions of this Schedule.  If the Borrower employs 
any procurement or inspection agents, it shall ensure that the requirements of Section 
3.10 and 3.11 of the Procurement Guidelines are met. 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Section I and IV of 
the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Parts B and C of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of  Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  
For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants 
for services estimated to cost less than $400,000 equivalent per contract may comprise 
entirely national consultants. 
Page  26
-
24 - 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for Project evaluation under Part D of the Project may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Single Source Selection
Services by the National Management Consultants, Evaluation Consultants and 
the Oversight Consultants under Part D of the Project requiring continuation of existing 
services, and services required by communities under Sub-projects under Parts B and C 
of the Project, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set forth in the first sentence 
of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to individual consultants on a 
sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, subject to prior approval of the Association. 
4. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for assignments which the Association agrees meet the requirements of 
paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 
3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association, namely: each 
contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm selected on the basis of Single 
Source Selection or that is estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.  In 
addition, the record of justification referred to paragraph 5 to Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines for each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more shall be subject to prior approval by 
the Association.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association.  
Page  27
-
25 - 
Annex 
to  
SCHEDULE 3 
Without limitation on the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit 
Agreement (Schedule 3) and of the Guidelines and the Consultant Guidelines (as such 
terms are defined in said schedule and referred to hereafter as the Procurement 
Guidelines), the following  provisions shall apply in respect of goods, works and 
consultants’ services to be procured under the Project: 
1.
 
To ensure end-user participation in the procurement of goods, works and 
consultant services under the Project, the requestor/user of such goods, works or 
consultant services (as the case may be) to be acquired, shall be represented on the 
relevant procurement/selection committee.  The criteria for the selection of procurement 
committee/selection members shall in all cases be consistent with the provisions of the 
Procurement Guidelines and the Project Management Manual (provided, however, that in 
the event of any inconsistency between the Project Management Manual and the 
Procurement Guidelines, the provisions of the Procurement Guidelines shall apply).  
2. 
The annual Procurement Plan, including all updates thereof; shall be made 
publicly available promptly after their finalization. 
3. 
All bidding documents and requests for proposals issued in accordance with 
Schedule 3 shall be made available to any member of the public promptly upon request, 
subject only to payment of a reasonable fee to cover the cost of printing and delivery.  In 
the case of requests for proposals, the relevant documents will only be made available 
after notification of award to the successful firm.  Each such document will continue to 
be made publicly available until a year after completion of the contract entered into for 
the goods, works or consultants’ services in question. 
4. 
All short lists of consultants and, in cases of pre-qualification, lists of pre-
qualified contractors and suppliers shall be made available to any member of the public 
promptly upon request. 
5. 
A summary of the evaluation of all bids and proposals for specific contracts shall 
be disclosed to all bidders and parties submitting proposals therefor, promptly after the 
notification of award to the successful bidder/consultant.  Information in such summaries 
will be limited to a list of bidders/consultants, all bid prices and financial proposals as 
read out at public openings for bids and financial proposals, all bids and proposals 
declared non responsive (together with reasons for such an assessment), the name of 
winning bidder/consultant and the contract price.  Such summaries will be made available 
to any member of the public promptly upon request. 
Page  28
-
26 - 
6. 
Contract award information for all contracts for goods and works of $100,000 
equivalent or more and all contracts for consultants of $50,000 equivalent or more shall 
be made publicly available and published widely, and be made available to any member 
of the public upon request, promptly after such award. 
7. 
A list of all contracts awarded in the three (3) months preceding the date of such 
request, including, with respect to each such contract, the name of the 
contractor/consultant selected, the contract amount, the number of bidders/makers of 
proposals in respect thereof, the procurement method followed and the purpose of such 
contract shall be made available, promptly upon request by member of the public. 
8. 
Representatives of the end-users of goods or works being procured shall be 
permitted to attend public bid openings in respect thereof.  
Page  29
-
27 - 
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project, a Project 
Management Unit in MPW, responsible for the implementation of the Project and the 
monitoring of the Project, headed by a Project Manager, and said Unit to be provided at 
all times with adequate funds and other resources and staffed by qualified and 
experienced personnel in adequate numbers as shall be necessary to accomplish its 
objectives.    
2. 
The Borrower shall adopt and, thereafter apply in the implementation of the 
Project, the Project Manual, acceptable to the Association, which shall include the 
description of: (i) implementation arrangements; (ii) the procurement procedures set forth 
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement and standard procurement documentation; (iii) reporting 
requirements, financial management procedures and audit procedures as set forth in 
Article 4 of this Agreement; (iv) the Project Performance Indicators as set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; (v) the Environmental Guidelines; (vi) the Isolated 
Vulnerable Peoples Framework; (vii) the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy 
Framework; (viii) the environmental criteria applicable to Sub-project design including 
environmental impact mitigation; (ix) maintenance provisions for works to be carried out 
under a Sub-project; and (x) the criteria for the selection of Sub-projects and terms and 
conditions of Grants and Sub-loans set forth in the Annex to Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that, prior to participation in Project activities, a  
Project Kota or Project Kabupaten has: 
 
(a) 
agreed to carry out activities under the Project in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Association, including the Project Manual; 
 
(b) 
established a Project office for purposes of Project coordination and 
disbursement of funds; 
 
(c) 
taken all steps required to make available counterpart funds as required; 
and  
 
(d) 
established a list of Project Kelurahans in accordance with the criteria set 
out in the Project Manual. 
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that, prior to participation in Project activities under 
Part C of the Project, a Project Kota or Project Kabupaten has: 
Page  30
-
28 - 
 
(a) 
complied with the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule; 
 
(b) 
agreed to carry out activities under Part C of the Project in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association, including the Project Manual; 
 
(c) 
established an independent Poverty Alleviation Partnership Grant 
Selection Committee consisting of BKM Forum members, community representatives 
(including non-governmental organizations if such organizations wish to participate) and 
local government staff; 
 
(d) 
taken all steps required to fund the operational costs of the PJOK-PAPG; 
and 
 
(e) 
taken all steps required to promote the development of joint proposals by 
local government agencies and community organizations including the provision of 
required funds. 
5. 
In carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall: (a) prepare and make 
available materials for poverty awareness-raising, acceptable to the Association, for the 
first year of Project implementation; and (b) thereafter, prepare and make available 
socialization materials, acceptable to the Association, until completion of the Project, in a 
timely manner.   
6. 
The Borrower shall ensure that Parts A.2 and A.6 of the Project are carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Manual.  
7. 
In carrying out Part A.3 and A.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall: (a) prepare 
and make available training materials therefor, acceptable to the Association, for the first 
year of Project implementation; and (b) thereafter, prepare and make available training 
materials, acceptable to the Association, until completion of the Project, in a timely 
manner.   
8. 
The Borrower shall ensure, at all times, that public information, aimed at 
disclosing to inhabitants of Project Kecamatans and Project Kelurahans all 
administrative, financial, environmental, social, procedural and technical aspects 
pertaining to the selection, design, preparation and implementation of Sub-projects, 
including the Project Manual, is available free of charge at the offices of the respective 
Camat and Lurah.  
9. 
The Borrower shall ensure that Sub-projects are selected for purposes of Parts B 
and C of the Project in accordance with the criteria and the terms and conditions set forth 
in the Annex to this Schedule. 
Page  31
-
29 - 
10. 
The Borrower shall ensure that, for purposes of Part B.2 of the Project, a 
revolving fund is established and maintained by the respective BKM in the Project 
Kelurahans, in accordance with procedures agreed with the Association and set forth in 
the Project Manual, to be funded with the proceeds of  repayments of Sub-loans and to be 
used exclusively for further on-lending to finance Sub-projects. 
11. 
In carrying out Parts B and C of the Project, the Borrower shall:  
 
(a) 
ensure that the proceeds of Grants and Sub-loans shall not be used to 
finance the acquisition of land; 
 
(b) 
shall apply the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework, 
including: 
(i)  
taking all appropriate measures to avoid or minimize the 
acquisition of land or assets of people and to avoid the 
displacement of said people;  
(ii) 
where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of 
residents is unavoidable under a proposed Sub-project, ensuring 
that all Displaced Persons thereunder shall have been 
compensated and provided with resettlement and rehabilitation 
measures prior to the implementation of such Sub-project and in 
accordance with the provisions of the Land Acquisition and 
Resettlement Policy Framework; and 
(iii) 
in the event that two hundred (200) or more residents are 
adversely Displaced by a Sub-project:  
(A) 
preparing a resettlement plan in accordance with the 
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework 
and furnish such plan to the Association for approval; 
and  
(B) 
prior to the carrying out of the Sub-project, ensuring that 
all Displaced Persons shall have been compensated in 
accordance with the provisions of said plan; 
(c) 
taking all such measures and actions set out in the Environmental 
Guidelines for the elimination or offsetting of adverse environmental impacts under a 
proposed Sub-project, or the reduction of such impacts to acceptable levels; and 
 
(d) 
 applying the Isolated Vulnerable Peoples Framework, including: 
Page  32
-
30 - 
(i) 
avoiding, and, if not possible, minimizing cultural, social and 
economic adverse effects on Isolated Vulnerable People caused 
or likely to be caused by the Project; and 
(ii) 
through a process of informed consultation and participation, 
involving concerned Isolated Vulnerable People in the design 
and implementation of Sub-projects so as to ensure that the 
benefits received by the Isolated Vulnerable People under the 
Project are in harmony with their economic, social and cultural 
preferences and protect their customary user rights. 
12. 
In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall select Project Kotas and 
Project Kabupatens in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Association.  
13. 
In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall carry out an evaluation 
of the performance of the selected Project Kotas and Project Kabupatens in the 
implementation of the Poverty Alleviation Partnership Grant program, and furnish such 
evaluation to the Association by October 31 of each year, commencing October 31, 2006, 
and until completion of the Project.  
14. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about October 15, 2007, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph 14, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date;  
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by December 15, 2007, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this paragraph 14, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter; and 
(d) 
make publicly available the report referred to in sub-paragraph (c) of this 
paragraph 14, at the same time as it is furnished to the Association pursuant to said sub-
paragraph. 
Page  33
-
31 - 
Annex 
to  
SCHEDULE 4 
Selection Criteria for Sub-Projects 
A. 
Selection Criteria for Sub-projects - General 
1. 
No Sub-project shall: (a) include expenditures intended for a military or 
paramilitary purpose; (b) include civil works for government administration or religious 
purposes; (c) relate to the manufacture or use of environmentally harmful products 
(including pesticides, ozone-depleting substances, tobacco or tobacco products, materials 
containing asbestos, arms and drugs); (d) relate to activities producing liquid or gaseous 
effluents or emissions at harmful levels; (e) relate to activities using, producing, storing 
or transporting hazardous materials and wastes; (f) relate to logging; (g) relate to 
activities in protected areas; (h) relate to fisheries activities that are not in accordance 
with standards set by the Borrower’s Fishery Service Agency; or (i) include the financing 
of government salaries. 
2. 
No project shall qualify as a Sub-project eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of a Grant or a Sub-loan until a Sub-project Implementation Agreement has 
been entered into between or among the relevant: (i) Grantee or Grantees and BKM for a 
proposed project under Parts B.1 and B.3 of the Project; (ii) Grantee or Grantees and 
PJOK PAPG for a proposed project under Part C of the Project; and (iii) Kelurahan-
borrower or Kelurahan-borrowers, BKM and PJOK for a proposed project under Part B.2 
of the Project, in each case on terms and conditions set forth in the Project Manual. 
B. 
Additional Selection Criteria for Sub-projects under Part B of the Project
1. 
Sub-projects under Part B.1 of the Project
(a) 
Each Sub-project proposed under Part B.1 of the Project shall be a public 
infrastructure investment project or a social service project which is technically, 
financially and environmentally viable, and economically justified by the number of 
people benefiting from it. 
 (b) 
Each Sub-project proposed under Part B.1 of the Project in the education 
sector shall be compatible with the relevant Kabupaten/Kota education master plan, if 
such plan exists. 
(c) 
Each Sub-project proposed under Part B.1 of the Project in the health 
sector shall be compatible with the relevant Kabupaten/Kota health master plan, if such 
plan exists. 
Page  34
-
32 - 
2. 
Sub-projects under Part B.2 of the Project
(a) 
Each proposed Sub-project shall be a poverty alleviation and income-
generating investment project which is technically, financially, socially and 
environmentally viable, and economically justified.  
(b) 
Sub-loans shall be made on terms and conditions agreed with the 
Association and set forth in the Project Manual.   
3. 
Sub-projects under Part B.3 of the Project
Each Sub-project proposed under Part B.3 of the Project shall be a social welfare 
project or activity which is technically justified. 
C. 
Additional Selection Criteria for Sub-projects under Part C of the Project
1. 
Each Sub-project proposed under Part C of the Project shall be : 
(a) 
a public infrastructure investment project or a social service project 
which is technically, financially, socially and environmentally viable, and economically 
justified by the number of people benefiting from it; 
(b) 
a Sub-project proposed by Kelurahan organizations in partnership with 
local government agencies; and 
(c) 
funded at least fifty percent (50%) by DINAS development budget, 
BKM and private sponsors. 
2. 
Each Sub-project proposed under Part C of the Project in the education 
sector shall be compatible with the relevant Ministry of Education and Kabupaten/Kota 
education master plans, if such plans exist. 
3. 
Each Sub-project proposed under Part C of the Project in the health 
sector shall be compatible with the relevant Ministry of Health and Kabupaten/Kota 
health master plans, if such plans exist. 
Page  35
-
33 - 
SCHEDULE 5 
Performance Indicators 
Target  
Outcome Indicators  
Baseline 
2005 
YR1 
2006 
YR2 
2007 
YR3 
2008 
YR4 
2009 
YR5 
2010 
(1) 50% of poor households in the 
targeted Kelurahans receive 
benefits and  improved services 
under Project 
-
50% of micro credit recipients 
have increased their income level 
-
infrastructure  built cost at least 
20% less than those built by 
government and meet the needs 
of community (in line with 
Community Development Plans 
(CDP)) in 80% of Kelurahans 
-
the provision of grant assistance 
(social fund) continues in 70% of 
Kelurahans
 
10%   30% 
 
30% 
 
40% 
 
30% 
 50% 
 
50% 
 
80% 
 
70% 
(2) At least 70% of the BKMs that 
have been formed are 
representative, effective, and in 
participative manner
 
50%  
70% 
(3) At least 30 local governments 
participating under Part C of the 
Project provide their own resources 
for the implementation of CDP 
independently from Poverty 
Alleviation Partnership Grants
 
20  
30 
Results Indicators for Each Part of 
the Project 
Part A:
 
(a)  % of Community Development 
Plans implemented 
 
30 
 
40 
 
50 
 
70 
 
90 
 
(b)  % of adults voting in BKM 
elections 
 
30 
 
30   
 
(c)  BKMs formed as percentage of 
participating local governments 
 
50%
80%
Part B:
 
(a)  % of poor urban households 
utilizing Project infrastructure 
 
10 35  50  65 75 
Page  36
-
34 - 
Target  
Outcome Indicators  
Baseline 
2005 
YR1 
2006 
YR2 
2007 
YR3 
2008 
YR4 
2009 
YR5 
2010 
(b)  % of poor urban households 
accessing micro credit 
 
10 20  25  35 40 
(c)  % of BKMs with microcredit 
who have repayment rates over  
90% 
 
50% 
 
60% 
 
65% 
 
70% 
 
(d) % of poor urban households 
receiving grant assistance 
 
5
6
8
10
15
(e)   % of BKMs that receive funds 
from other agencies 
 
10
20
30
Part C:
 
(a)  # of Regional Poverty 
Alleviation Strategy papers 
completed  
 
30
40
(b)  % of poor urban households 
receiving services through 
partnership at the receiving BKM  
 
40%
50%
55%
60%
(c)  % of financing provided by local 
government and private sector for 
PAPG 
 
50%
50%
50%
50%
Part D:
 
(a)  % of BKMs with completed 
annual financial audits
 
50% 60% 70% 
80% 
(b)  % of Oversight Consultants 
providing timely, accurate data 
through MIS 
 80% 
 
85% 
85% 
90% 
100% 
(c)  % of targeted areas receiving 
technical support 
 70% 
75% 
80% 
85% 
95% 
