                                                                                                          92432
Community-Based Settlement Rehabilitation and Reconstruction                                              April 5, 2006
                                  Grant amount:                 US$85 million
                                  Implementation period:        September 2005 – August 2007
                                  Partner Agency:               The World Bank
                                  Implementing Agency:          Ministry of Public Works

Background

                              The estimated need for housing in Aceh and Nias is at 80,000-100,000 in Aceh and 13,500 in Nias.  At the
                              moment, housing needs are being met by NGOs, Government and bi-lateral projects. As part of this effort,
                              the Multi Donor Fund project is helping to provide 5,000 new houses and rehabilitate 8,500 more in villages
                              and urban neighborhoods and provide grants for basic community infrastructure. The price per house under
                              this project is about US$4,000, compared to an average of more than US$6,000 for houses provided by
                              NGOs and bilateral donors. Yet, villagers are choosing these houses on the grounds that they control the
                              process. However, unit prices will need to be adjusted shortly to take into consideration local inflation.
 A newly built Meunasah, or
Acehnese community hall, in   Project Objective
        Banda Aceh.
To rebuild and repair houses in 188 villages and urban neighborhoods through community-driven processes.

Project Design

The project works through the World Bank’s community-driven Urban Poverty Project (see more information
below) that establishes elected community development boards. The project provides grants to communities
and for basic infrastructure. The infrastructure grants component has just been stocked up to meet the
                                                                                                           Tsunami survivors living in
reconstruction needs in supported villages. One of few housing projects that focuses on repair as well as
                                                                                                            temporary or transitional
reconstruction.                                                                                           shelters while waiting for the
                                                                                                                    finalization of their
Mechanism                                                                                                           permanent homes.

Mechanisms require that all damage and needs identification, planning, implementation and supervision are community-driven, supported
by technical staff and especially housing facilitators. Housing groups are formed to identify construction needs and key beneficiaries, and
then grants are allocated to the housing groups, based on the number of houses needing rebuilding or repair.

Results to Date

       Out of 1,200 houses being reconstructed in 19 urban neighborhoods, more than 270 have been completed and the remaining
       houses are at an advanced stage of construction.
       Over 900 families have received grants to repair their houses.

 

More information:
  Project Documents (Urban Poverty Project)

Back to top
 
