CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1513 IND
Loan Agreement
(Seventh Power Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated February 3, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1513 IN0
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 3, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and     INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Perusahaan Umum
Listrik Negara (hereinafter called PLN) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to PLN the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and PLN;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and PLN of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project


﻿- 2 -
Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project Agree-
ment;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and PLN pursuant to Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time; and
(c) "Governing Laws" means Government Act No. 19, 1960,
Presidential Decree No. 17, 1967, Law No. 9, 1969, Government
Regulation No. 18, 1972, and any other legal provisions in force
at any time governing the organization and operations of PLN, as
any of them may be amended or supplemented from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
one hundred and nine million dollars ($109,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and forty-five hundredths per cent (7.45%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause PLN to perform in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
all the obligations therein set forth, shall take or cause to be
taken all action, necessary or appropriate to enable PLN to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
To that end, the Borrower shall ensure that sufficient liquid
funds to cover the budgeted expenditures estimated by PLN to be
made for the Project during each quarter shall be available to PLN
not later than the fifteenth day of such quarter.
(b) The Borrower shall transfer to PLN, in addition to the
funds referred to in the preceding paragraph, and as and when
required, sufficient funds to finance PLN's capital expenditures
as annually reviewed and agreed with the Bank.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of
the Loan to PLN under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and PLN , under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take all actions to ensure
at all times that amounts owed to PLN for services and electricity
provided by it to any department or agency of the Borrower be
promptly paid when due, and, to that end, the Borrower shall
ensure that sufficient liquid funds to cover such amounts owed to
PLN shall be available to each department or agency not later than
the fifteenth day of the month during which such amounts shall be
payable.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that the position
of President Director of PLN shall at all times be filled by
a qualified and experienced person.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on
assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the
Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien ar'ing in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.


﻿-5-
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall through PLN:
(a) adopt the lower of the two demand forecasts which are
included in the Java Power System Development Plan prepared by
consultants under Part C of the Project described in Schedule 2
of the Development Credit Agreement No. 399-IND (West Java Thermal
Power Project) of June 22, 1973, between the Borrower and the
Association, as a guideline for the preparation of a development
program of electric power generation, transmission and distri-
bution in Java until PLN's fiscal year 1986/87.
(b) review annually with the Bank, before the approval of
PLN's budget by the Borrower, potential changes in the load growth
of electric power on Java and the variations of PLN's development
program for Java that are required as a result of such changes and
take necessary steps to implement such development program;
and
(c) review annually with the Bank PLN's investment budget
for the next fiscal year before its final approval by the Bor-
rower, in order to enable the Bank to express its views on the
priorities assigned to the investments included under the budget
and on the balance among the generation, transmission and distri-
bution of electric power which would result from such investments.
Section 4.03. The references to Financial Recovery Plan
in the following Davelopment Credit, Loan and Project Agreements
are hereby deleted:
(a) Part B of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement
No. 399-IND (West Java Thermal Power Project) of June 22, 1973
between the Borrower and the Association.
(b) Sections 2.04, 4.03 and 4.04 of Project Agreement
No. 399-IND (West Java Thermal Power Project) of June 22, 1973*
between the Association and PLN.


﻿-6-
(c) Part B of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement No. 1127-IND
(Fourth Power Project) of June 17, 1975 between the Borrower and
the Bank.
(d) Sections 2.04, and 4.03 through 4.06 of Project Agree-
ment No. 1127-IND (Fourth Power Project) of June 17, 1975 between
the Bank and PLN.
(e) Part B of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement No. 1259-IND
(Fifth Power Project) of May 20, 1976 between the Borrower and the
Bank.
(f) Sections 2.04, 4.03 through 4.06 and 4.08 of- Project
Agreement No. 1259-IND (Fifth Power Project) of May 20, 1976
between the Bank and PLN.
(g) Part D of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement No. 1365-IND
(Sixth Power Project) of February 4, 1977 between the Borrower and
the Bank.
(h) Sections 2.04 and 4.03 through 4.06 of Project Agreement
No. 1365-IND (Sixth Power Project) of February 4, 1977 between the
Bank and PLN.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) a default shall occur in the performance by PLN of any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b) the Borrower shall have taken any action for the disso-
lution or disestablishment of PLN or for the suspension of its
operations, without having obtained the prior concurrence of the
Bank;
(c) the Borrower shall have Luspended, terminated, repealed
or substantially amended any of the Governing Laws or any provi-
sion thereof, without having obtai,.ied the prior concurrence of the
Bank; and


﻿-7-
(d) PLN shall have become unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by PLN or
by others whereby any of the property of PLN shall or may be
distributed among its creditors.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c) or (d)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of PLN
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action; and
(b) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and PLN, respectively, has been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by PLN, and is legally binding upon PLN in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and PLN, respectively, and
is legally binding upon the Borrower and PLN in accordance with.
its terms.


﻿-8-
Section 6.03. The date May 3, 1978 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister ef Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Jakarta
Indonesia
Cable address:                    Telex:
MINISTRY FINANCE                   44379
Jakarta
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the


﻿-9-
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Danudirdjo Ashari
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Catory                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment                   56,900,000
(a) directly                                 100% of foreign
imported                                expenditures
(b) locally                                  95% of local
manufactured                            expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) imported                                 65%
goods pro-
cured locally
(2) Construction
(a) civil works             4,200,000        69%
(b) mechanical and         12,900,000       100% of foreign
electrical works                        expenditures
(3) Consultants' services        8,500,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
(4) Unallocated                 26,500,000
TOTAL      109,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:


﻿- 11 -
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required -to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallo-
cation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order That further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting


﻿- 12 -
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinton, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Construction of a third oil-fired thermal power unit
(200MW) at the Semarang Harbor power station situated in
Central Java.
Part B:   Construction of about 121 km of 150 kV double circuit
transmission lines connecting the Semarang Harbor power
station with Ungaran, West Semarang and Kudus in Central
Java.
Part C:   Construction of two new 150 kV substations at Ungaran
and Kudus, and extension of existing Semarang Harbor,
West Semarang, Jatingaleh and Solo substations in
Central Java with a total transformer capacity of
about 150 MVA.
Part D:   Provision of consultants' services for:
(i) engineering and procurement of major equipment for
a new dual (coal and oil) fired thermal power
station at Suralaya in West Java; and
(ii) carrying out a feasiblity study and site investiga-
tions for a new dual (coal and oil) fired thermal
power station in East Java.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning August 1, 1983
through   August 1, 1997                   3,635,000
On February 1, 1998                             3, 585,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
. before maturity                              1.10%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                              2.25%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                              4.10%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen years
before maturity                              5.95%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen years
before maturity                              6.70%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                              7.45%


