CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1513 TND
Project Agreement
(Seventh Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK NEGARA
Dated February 3, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1513 IND
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 3, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK NEGARA (hereinafter called PLN).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Indonesia (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Bor-
rower an amount in various currencies equivalent to oie hundred
and nine million dollars ($109,000,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that
PLN agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and
PLN, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agree-
ment will be made available to PLN on the terms and conditions
therein set forth; and
WHEREAS PLN, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE th2 parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the Gen-
eral Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. PLN shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. In order to assist PLN in carrying out the
Project, PLN shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for the construction to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) PLN undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by PLN to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, PLN shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the
Project.
Section 2.05. (a) PLN shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contracts, documents, construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) PLN: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), and to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent
to it by the Borrower, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(c) of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning, the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan so relent to it and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿- 3 -
(c) PLN shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of PLN and any relevant records and documents.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between PLN and the
Bank, PLN shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
PLN and the Bank of their respective obligations under this Agree-
ment and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 2.06. PLN shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, PLN shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiv-
ing the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) PLN shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relat-
ing to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) PLN shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by PLN of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. In order to ensure a steady increase in its
share of electricity supply from its fiscal year 1978/79 to fiscal
year 1985/86, PLN shall prepare and furnish to the Bank annually
in advance for its review, PLN's customer connection program for
each fiscal year and thereafter shall implement such program in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PLN
Section 3.01. (a) PLN shall at all times manage its affairs;
improve its financial position, plan its future expansion and


﻿4-
carry on its operations, all in accordance with sound engineering,
administrative, financial and public utility practices and under
the supervision of experienced and competent management assisted
by experienced and competent staff in adequate numbers; and
(b) In order to improve its operational efficiency, PLN
shall implement plans to attain specific performance targets,
including a target on the reduction in system losses, to be agreed
between PLN and the Bank from time to time.
Section 3.02. (a) PLN shall maintain its existence and right
to carry on its operations, and shall take all steps necessary
to acquire, maintain and renew all interests in land and other
properties and all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which
are necessary or useful in the carrying out of the Project or in
the conduct of its business.
(b) PLN shall at all times operate and maintain its plants,
facilities, equipment and other property, and promptly as required
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance
with sound engineering and public utility practices.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PLN shall not
sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property
or assets which shall be required for the efficient operation of
its business and undertaking.
Section 3.03. PLN shall take out and maintain with responsi-
ble insurers, or make other provisions, including self-insurance,
satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and
in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. PLN shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. PLN shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the


﻿-5-
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of PLN and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. For the purpose of Sections 4.04, 4.05 and
4.06 of this Agreement:
(a) the term "capital expenditures" means any expenditure
incurred on account of fixed or capital assets, including interest
charged to construction;
(b) the term "funds from internal sources" means the differ-
ence between:
(i) The sum of gross revenues, cash consumer contribu-
tions in aid of construction, net non-operating
income, and any other cash inflows other than funds
for financing capital expenditures; and
(ii) The sum of all expenses of operation, including
maintenance and administration (excluding deprecia-
tion and other non-cash operating charges), inter-
est and other charges on debt (excluding interest
financed under a loan contract), repayment of loans
(including sinking fund payments, if any), all
taxes or payments in lieu of taxes, all cash
distributions of surplus, and any other cash
outflows other than capital expenditures;
(c) the term "debt" means all debt incurred by PLN, includ-
ing debt assumed or guaranteed by PLN;
(d) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (A) under a loan
agreement or contract, on the date and to the extent that it is
drawn down pursuant to such loan agreement or contract, and (B)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing
for such guarantee is entered into but only to the extent that
the guaranteed debt is outstanding;


﻿-6 -
(e) the term "equity" means PLN's capital, retained earn-
ings, surplus and reserves (including any revaluation reserve but
excluding any reserve allocated to cover specific liabilities);
(f) the term "net revenues" means gross revenues from all
sources, adjusted to take account of PLN's tariffs in effect
at the time of the incurrence of debt even though they were not
in effect during the fiscal year or twelve-month period to which
such revenues relate, less all operating and administrative
expenses and provision for taxes, if any, but before provision
covering adequate depreciation and interest and other charges on
debt; and
(g) the term "debt service requirement" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any),
interest and other charges on debt.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
PLN shall from time to time take all such measures as shall be
required to produce, during consecutive three-year periods from
its fiscal years 1977/78 through 1983/84, funds from its internal
sources as contribution to the capital expenditures at such levels
as shall be agreed with the Bank, and for periods from fiscal
years 1982/83 through 1984/85 and thereafter, the level of such
funds shall be equivalent to not less than 30% of its capital
expenditures.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
PLN shall at all times maintain a debt/equity ratio of not more
than 60:40.
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
PLN shall not incur any debt, other than for money borrowed for
financing the Project, unless its net revenues for the fiscal year
next preceding such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period
ended prior to such incurrence, whichever amount is greater, shall
be not less than 1.3 times the maximum debt service requirement
for any succeeding fiscal year on all debts, including the debt to
be incurred.
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be neces-
sary to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt
payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on
the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which
such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable
for the purposes of servicing such debt.


﻿-7-
Section 4.07. Section 4.07 of Project Agreement No. 1365-IND
(Sixth Power Project) of February 4, 1977 between the Bank and PLN
shall be replaced by the following:
"PLN shall design and implement, after consultation with
the Bank, a new tariff structure which will reflect as closely as
possible the long run marginal cost to the Indonesian economy of
meeting the demand for electricity. This new tariff shall become
effective on April 1, 1979 or such later date as the Bank may
agree."
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Bank and of PLN thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Loan Agreement shall ter-
minate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this
Section, the Bank shall promptly notify PLN of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,


﻿-8 -
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For PLN:
Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara
Kantor Pusat
Jl. Adityawarman
Blok MI No. 135
Kebayoran Baru
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:                    Telex:
PLNPST                             46186 (JKT)
Jakarta
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of PLN may be taken or executed by the
President Director of PLN or such other person or persons as the
President Director of PLN shall designate in writing, and PLN
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.


﻿- 9 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK NEGARA
By Is/ Danudirdjo Ashari
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works shall
be procured in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (here-
inafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   Contracts for equipment shall be grouped together to the
extent practicable for the purposes of inviting bids, and such
grouping of items shall be subject to the approval of the Bank.
3.   Bidders for civil works included in Parts A, B and C of the
Project shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of
Part A of the Guidelines.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to PLN of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or
installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in the Republic of Indonesia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:


﻿- 11 -
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Republic of Indonesia if the bidder shall
have established to the satisfaction of PLN
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in the Republic of
Indonesia equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Republic of Indonesia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preference
for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under
Category (2) of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement and to be procured in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 of this Schedule, PLN may grant a margin of
preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿-12-
(a) Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying also for such preference shall be asked to provide,
as part of the data for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification accepted by the Bank, a particular
firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The
bidding documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the
method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of
bids to give effect to such preference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by PLN,
responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. PLN shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be
followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified
bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and of
the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalifica-
tion and for such eligibility shall be furnished by PLN to the
Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of PLN's
decision, and PLN shall make such additions to, deletions from, or
modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiv-
alent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, PLN shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the


﻿- 13 -
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, PLN
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to
in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, together with the recommendations for
award of the said consultants and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform PLN and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
PLN shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform PLN and state the reasons for such determination.


