CIRCULATING COPY
Report No. 674a-UV                                               IX  BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
Appraisal of a                                                                           RETURN TO
Livestock Development Project    REPORTS sX
Upper Volta                                                                         1   WITHIN
ONE VES--
May 8, 1975
Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use                                               FILE COPY
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Croup. it may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Croup does not accept responsibility
for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00   =  CFAF 225.00
aFAF 100   =  uS$ o.44
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 hectare (ha)                =         10,000 m2 = 2.46 acres
1 kilometer                   =         0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)                0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)               -        2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)                   =        0.26 gallons
1,000 kg = 1 metric ton                0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
BND                           Banque Nationale de Développement
CBPP                          Contegious Bovine Pleuropneumonia
CCCE                          Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique
CEBEV                         Communauté Economique du Bétail et de la Viande
FAC                           Fonds dtAide et de Coopération
FED                           Fonds Européen de Développement
HAER                          Hydraulique et Aménagement des Espaces Rurales
IEMVT                         Institut de l'Elevage et de Médecine Vétérinaire
des Pays Tropicaux
IRAT                          Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales et
des Cultures Vivrières
ONERA                         Office Nationale de l'Exploitation des Resources
Animales
ORD                           Organisme Régional de Développement
ORSTOM                        Office de la Recherche Scientifique et Technique
Outre Mer
PU                            Project Unit
RMWA                          Regional Mission in Western Africa of the World Bank
SCET                          Societé Centrale d'Equipement du Territoire
SVCP                          Societé Voltaique des Cuirs et Peaux
UDEAO                         Union Douaniére des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
USAID                         United States Agency for International Development
Fiscal Year: January 1 - December 31



UPPER VOLTA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............... .. ..............    i - v
I.   INTRODUCTION ..      ................................  1
II.   BACKGROUND ..............................             1
A. General             . . ........;    1
B.  Agricultural Sector ..... .................       2
C.  The Livestock Subsector.               .          3
D.  Utilization of Pastoral Resources .........       5
E.  Livestock Development Strategy ............       6
III. THE PROJECT AREA.                                       8
IV. THE PROJECT                   ..9
A. Summary Description            ...                 9
B. Detailed Features         ...10
C.  Organization and Management ............ ...    13
D. Accounts and Audit         ...16
V.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS            17
A.  Project Costs ......    .......................    17
B.  Financing .......    ..........................    19
C. Procurement .......     ........................    20
D. Disbursement           ...21
VI.   PRODUCTION, PRICES, MARKETING, FINANCIAL
RESULTS AND COST RECOVERY .22
VII.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .... .......    24
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ........    26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, conmrising
Messrs. M. Walshe (consultant), K. Meyn and M. Cognet (IDA), K. Kroeger and
J. Lebloas (consultants), which visited Upper Volta in October/November, 1974.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1.   Agriculture and the Livestock Subsector
Table 1. Profitability of Livestock Production
Table 2. Smallholder Output
2.   Veterinary Service
3.   Livestock Marketing
Table 1. Past and Projected Market Throughput
Table 2. Development of Stock Routes and Small Holding
Grounds
4.   Meat Processing Facilities
Table 1.  Actual and Projected Slaughter at Bobo-Dioulasso
Table 2.  Conparison of Live Cattle and Meat Exports
Table 3.  Investments for ONERA to Undertake Increased
Meat Exports
Table 4.  Incremental Sales and Operating Costs for
ONERA to undertake Increased Meat Exports
Table 5.  Incremental Financial Rate of Return on
Investment by ONERA
Table 6.  Upper Volta & Ivory Coast Shares of the
Incremental Value of Trade in Live
Cattle and MIeat
5.   Banque Nationale de Développement (BND)
Table 1. Income Statement
Table 2. Balance Sheets
6.   Group Ranch Development
7.   Development Projections
MIodel: Group Beef/Dairy Ranch - 15,000 ha
Table 1.  Herd Projection
Table 2.  Investiment Costs
Table 3.  Sales and Value of Subsistence Production
Table 4. Assumed Liveweights, Milk Yields and Prices
Table 5.  Operating Costs
Table 6.  Cash Flow



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Group Ranch Development Center Samorogouan
Table 7. Investment Costs
Table 8. Sales and Operating Costs
Table 9.  Cash Flow
Veterinary Service
Table 10.      Model-Communal Herd - Herd Projection
Table 11.      Model-Communal Herd  - Income and Operating Costs
Table 12.       Investment Costs
Table 13.       Operating Costs
Table 14.       Cash Flow
Livestock Marketing and Meat Processing
PU - Investment Costs
Table 15.       Livestock Marketing
Table 16.      Meat Processing
ONERA
Table 17.       Bobo-Dioulasso Headquarters - Investment Costs
Table 18.      Livestock Marketing - Income and Operating Costs
Table 19.      Meat Processing - Income and Operating Costs
Table 20.       Bobo-Dioulasso Headquarters - Income and
Operating Costs
Table 21.       Cash Flow
Project Unit
Table 22.       Investment Costs
Table 23.       Operating Costs
Technical Services
Table 24.       Investment Projection
8.   Summary of Annual Investment Costs
9.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
10.   Incremental Financial Rates of Return
11.   Government Incremental Cash Flow
12.   Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Table 1.        Economic Rate of Return
CHART
Proposed Organization and Management
MAP
Location of Project Activities






UPPER VOLTA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary and Conclusions
Background
i.        The Government of Upper Volta has requested IDA assistance in
financing a livestock development project. The location would be Dedougou
and Bobo-Dioulasso rural development (ORD) 1/ regions, one of Upper Volta's
most important and high potential livestock areas (58,000 km2, 0.9 million
people). It would be IDA's first major livestock operation in Upper Volta
and the first comprehensive effort to increase livestock production by
traditional producers (pastoralists and crop farmers). The project was
identified jointly by RNWA and FAC and prepared by SCET (a French consulting
firm) and RMWA. This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal
mission in October/November, 1974.
Project Description
ii.       The project would be a broadly based program to assist cattle
production in Dedougou and Bobo-Dioulasso ORDs through ranch development,
and the improvement of livestock marketing, meat processing and veterinary
services. It would help about 300,000 traditional cattle producers and,
in addition, would introduce commercial ranching to the traditional sector.
iii.      The project, carried out over five years, 1976-80, would comprise:
(a) establishing nine group ranches and a ranch development
center;
(b) providing improved veterinary services throughout Dedougou
and Bobo-Dioulasso ORD regions;
(c) constructing a livestock market and holding ground at
Bobo-Dioulasso as well as improving 730 km of stock routes;
(d) renovating a slaughterhouse at Bobo-Dioulasso; and
(e) providing for training, field trials, project evaluation and
monitoring, and future project preparation.
1/   ORD refers to both a geographical unit and the administrative organization
charged with developmental responsibilities.



- ii -
Project Execution
iv.       The Governnent would establish a Project Unit (PU) in the Ministry
of Plan to coordinate and supervise project implementation; this unit would
include a Project Director, an Assistant Director (Agricultural Economist),
a Civil Engineer, an Accountant and a Livestock Specialist. The Project
Director would be responsible to the Minister of Plan through a Policy and
Steering Committee. The Bobo-Dioulasso ORD would have responsibility for
implementing the group ranching components, and it would establish and staff
a development center at Samorogouan for this purpose. Bobo-Dioulasso and
Dedougou ORDs would have responsibility for implementing the improved
veterinary service. PU would implement the livestock marketing and meat
processing cornponents on behalf of ONERA, an autonomous agency responsible
to the Minister of Plan, which would operate these facilities.
Cost Estimates and Financial Arrangements
v.        The project costs for the five-year period, including taxes, are
estimatts&d at US$11.5 million.  Taxes other than import duties account for
about 6% (US$0.7 million) of project costs including contingencies. It is
proposed that an IDA Credit of US$9 million be made to Government on standard
terins, covering 78% of project costs including taxes or 83% excluding taxes.
The Credit would finance the project's foreign exchange costs (US$4.8 million)
and 63% (US$4.2 million) of local currency costs. The remaining 37% (US$2.5
million) of the latter would be met from Government's budgetary allocations
(US$1.3 million) and from the National Development Bank (BND) (US$1.2 million).
vi.       Funds for the veterinary service would be channelled as a grant to
the Dedougou and Bobo-Dioulasso ORDs. Funds for the Group Ranch Development
Ceniter would be on-lent to Bobo-Dioulasso ORD by Government without interest,
for a term of 20 years with a five-year grace period. Funds for group ranches
would be channelled through BND to final beneficiaries at 10% annually, for
^. term of 13 years with a six-year grace period. Government would lend funds
to rfND at 5.5% annually, for a term of 18 years with a six-year grace period.
The spread accruing to BND is sufficient to cover administrative expenses
and risks. Government would onlend funds for livestock marketing and meat
processing to ONERA at '10% annually, for a term of 15 years including a five-
year grace period; ONERA would make avai'Lable funds required for the invest-
ment program to PU, which would develop the facilities. As part of the
Ministry of Plan PU would obtain funds Eor its other operations and for
technical services directly.
Procurement and Disbursements
4i.       Vehicles and equipment (US$0.9 million) would be procured through
.aternational coùinetitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. Domes-
tically manufactured goods would be allowed a preference of 15% (or the level
of ap-L±able import duty whichever is lower).  Contracts for (a) building
and ccnstruction (US$1.7 million), (b) the installation of 88 wells along



- iii -
stock routes and for ranch development (US$0.7 million), and (c) the rehabil-
itation of the Bobo-Dioulasso slaughterhouse (US$0.1 million), including
construction works and the purchase of equipment, involve numerous operations
scattered over the project area and, phased over three years, would be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
local procedures which are acceptable to IDA. These contracte are not large
enough to make international tendering appropriate. Draft tender documents
for all contracts exceeding US$100,000 would be submitted to IDA for approval
before invitations were issued. A major part of project cost8 (US$3.5 million)
would be for cattle purchase, on fari developments, purchase of seeds and
vaccines, staff salaries and operating costs; none of these would be suitable
for competitive bidding. The services of expatriate staff and consultants
(US$1.0 million) would be obtained according to procedures acceptable to IDA.
viii.     The IDA Credit would be disbursed over five years to cover:
(a) 75% of total expenditures for civil works -- US$2.1 million;
(b)  CIF cost of equipment required for the Bobo-Dioulasso slaughter-
house and 85% of total costs for vehicles and other equipment --
US$0.9 million;
(c) 60Z of cattle purchases for group ranches and for the
Group Ranch Development Center -- US$1.1 million;
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures for expatriate personnel
and foreign training, and for consultants for the
Bobo-Dioulasso slaughterhouse -- US$1.0 million;
(e) 75% of the incremental working capital and project
operating costs of group ranches, the Group Ranch
Development Center, and PU during the disbursement
period, excluding cattle purchases and foreign
expenditures for personnel and training -- US$0.7
million; and
(f) 45% of the total operating costs of the veterinary
services component during the firet three years --
US$0.3 million.
US$2.9 million would be unallocated.
Markets
ix.       The market outlook for meat is very favorable in West Africa.  Meat
is increasingly scarce due to the recent drought, rapid population growth
and urbanization; the strength of demand is shown by rapidly rising prices.
Since the incremental production of the project at full development would not
exceed about 11% of current domestic output, it should find a ready market.



- iv -
The hides and skins can easily be exported or bought by the state agency,
SVCP; the milk would improve the nutrition of rural families and any surplus
would find a ready local market.
x.        Livestock marketing in the country is reasonably efficient, and
the project would improve the marketing infrastructure in Dedougou and Bobo-
Dioulasso ORDs.- Slaughtering facil ties would be made adequate by the
reconstruction under this project or a slaughterhouse to cover the needs of
Bobo-Dioulasso, the only large town in the project area. Meat is retailed
by an adequate network of butcher stalls.
Benefits and Justification
xi.       The principal direct benefits from the project would be incremental
annual livestock production worth CFAF 758 million (US$3.4 million) in 1974
terms, yielding net foreign exchange eatnings of the order of US$1.6 million.
About 50,000 pastoralists, benefitting from the improved veterinary service,
would increase their average cash incomes from livestock production from about
US$85 to US$105 and about 3,000 participating in group ranches would increase
their cash income to about US$200. About 220,000 farmers, benefitting from
the improved veterinary service, would increase their average cash incomes
from livestock production from US$5 to US$7 and about 14,000 farmers partici-
pating in group ranches would increase their cash incomes to US$56 in addition
to the US$36 deriving from crops. About 120 new jobs would be created.
xii.      The economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 28%;
because of this high rate of return the project would absorb a substantial
amount of the risks which are most likely to occur.
xiii.     The project would substantially increase the productivity of the
traditional cattle herd (490,000): offtake would be increased from about 11%
to 13% and sales would be increased by about 30%. The organization of tradi-
tional producers into group ranches would be a pioneering venture for Upper
Volta which tackles basic and sensitive development issues -- social, cultural
and land use. The institution building, training and technical assistance
aspects of this component are of major significance and should provide guide-
lines for future development. If successful they could set the stage for
widespread development of Upper Voltals vast pasture and livestock resources.
xiv.      Risks.  The group ranch component is risky because of its pilot
nature and the absence of precedent for this type of development in West Africa,
but represents the only conceivable mechanism to achieve a better use of the
livestock pasture resource. Although potential members have indicated they
would welcome participation -- as evidenced by a social study carried out
during preparation and field investigation during appraisal -- it is extremely
difficult to ascertain if the local community understands the full nature of
the changes and commitments involved. In implementing this component, the
Samorogouan Development Center would come to grips with this uncertainty by
explaining and interpreting the nature of group ranches as well as resolving



conflicts and difficulties as they arise. Furthermore, the potential benefits
from participation, which are substantial, should constitute a strong incentive
to cooperate with the Center. Funds for the group ranches are to be disbursed
in phases, and should the concept of the group ranches not take hold, disburse-
ments will cease. If this should happen, it would be most regrettable but it
would not jeopardize the remainder of the project. The rate of return for
group ranches is lower than that of the other components and its omission
would in fact increase the arithmetical average. However, the rate of return
on the group ranch component is highly satisfactory; furthermore, it does not
reflect important non-quantifiable benefits. In sum, although the project
does involve risks, the potential benefits are so important relative to them
that the risks are worth taking.
Recommendation
xv.       With the assurances obtained during negotiations as set out in
Section VIII of this report, the project is suitable for an IDA credit of
US$9 million.






UPPER VOLTA
Livestock Development Project
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Upper Volta has requested IDA assistance in finan-
cing a livestock development project. It would assist about 300,000 tradition-
al producers by providing improved veterinary, marketing and slaughtering
services; and, in addition, credit would be extended for the first time to
about 17,000 livestock owners to assist them in a transition from subsistence
to market-oriented operations.
1.02      The project was identified jointly by the Bank's Resident Mission
for West Africa (RMWA) and Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération (FAC) on Government's
request and prepared by Societé Centrale d'Equipement du Territoire (SCET) and
RMWA. It would be IDA's first major livestock operation in Upper Volta. Four
previous IDA credits have been made for agriculture. Two of them, (i) the
Rural Development Fund Project (Credit 317-UV, US$2.2 million) in 1972, and
(ii) the Drought Relief Fund Project (Credit 442-UV, US$2.0 million) in 1973,
are progressing satisfactorily. A third project, the West Volta Cotton
Project (Credit 225-UV, US$6.2 million) in 1971, has not proceeded as well
as planned and cotton production achievements are lagging well behind appraised
estimates. More recently, the Bougouriba Agricultural Development Project
(Credit 496-UV, US$8.0 million), was signed in July, 1974.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, com-
prising Messrs. M. Walshe (consultant), K. M4eyn and M. Cognet (IDA), K. Kroeger
and J. Lebloas (consultants), which visited Upper Volta in October/November,
1974.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Upper Volta has an area of about 274,000 km , and a population of
5.5 million growing at about 2% per year. The productive population is
estimated at about 2.0 million, of which about 95% are engaged in agriculture.
Some 0.5 million Voltaics, 75% male, live more or less permanently in the
Ivory Coast and Ghana, and seasonal migration is common. The country is land-
locked, with the closest seaport being Abidjan, about 1,200 km from Ouagadougou,
the capital. There were serious droughts in the 1968, 1970, 1972 and 1973
growing seasons; fortunately, rainfall was normal during the last rainy season
(May to September 1974).



-2 -
2.02      With a per capita GDP of about US$70, Upper Volta is one of the
poorest countries in Africa and one of the world's 25 "least developed
countries." Economic growth has been slow, and real per capita GDP increased
by little more than 1% a year between 1966 to 1973. The major factor in this
disappointing performance was a decrease in agricultural production (including
livestock) of about 10% between 1967 and 1973, because of four sequential
droughts (para 2.01). GDP (current prices) is estimated at CFAF 95 billion
(US$422 million). Agriculture and services (transport, trade and Government)
each account for about 40% of GDP, and industry for the remainder.
2.03      Although the climate and soils have considerable limitations, the
main potential for development lies in agriculture, the mainstay of the
economy (Annex 1). The Sudanian and Guinean Zones, with rainfall of 600-1400
mm/year, comprise about 85% of the total area; these zones are suitable for
growing a broad range of crops and the wl.ole country is well adapted to live-
stock production if modern technology is employed. Only 15% of the country
lies in the Sahel, where rainfall of under 600 mmi is too low for cropping.
Generally, expansion of the agricultural sector is impeded by the tradition-
bound and underdeveloped condition of the rural population.
B. Agricultural Sector (Annex 1)
2.04      Agriculture accounts for virtually all exports and provides the
livelihood of about 95% of the population. It accounts for 40% of GDP. In
1972, the value of agricultural output amounted to CFAF 37 billion (US$164
million), of which crop farming accounted for 57%, livestock about 25%, and
the balance for forestry, hunting and fishing.
2.05      Crop farming is carried out by some 500,000 families, mainly to
fulfill subsistence needs. The main crops are sorghum, millet, cotton,
groundnuts and sesame. Yields are low but with improved technology cereal
yields can be increased two- to threefold and cotton yields four- to fivefold.
A typical subsistence farm has about 4 ha cultivated and supports a 10-member
family. With prevailing shifting cultivation, 20 ha are required to sustain
4 ha cultivated per year; on a gross basis, about 11 million ha (40% of the
total area) is utilized, including fallow, for cultivation of about 2.2
million ha. While such a farming system is adequate as long as land is
plentiful, it tends to break down with increasing population pressure--for
example in the densely populated Mossi Plateau--as the fallow period is reduced
and soil fertility declines. There is, however, evidence from ongoing pilot
schemes that with modern technology--the use of fertilizers and rotation
cropping--a period in fallow is not essential to sustain a stable farming
system and high yields.



- 3-
C. The Livestock Subsector
2.06      Numbers, Output and Exports.  The livestock population represerits
a major national resource in Upper Volta and is estimated at about 2.5 million
cattle, about 4 million sheep and goats, 200,000 donkeys, 60,000 horses,
5,000 camels and about 150,000 pi-s; poultry numbers are about 10 million
(Annex 1). Historically, the national herd has grown by about 2% annually,
however, due to drought it has decreased since 1967. About 275,000 head of
cattle are sold or slaughtered annually, a total offtake of about 11%, but only
about 6.6% (165,000 head) pass through public markets and slaughterhouses.
2.07      In recent years, livestock's share of GDP has amounted to about 11%.
Total meat production is estimated at 54,000 tons, including 28,000 tons
from cattle. Milk production for human consumption -- from cattle, sheep and
goats -- is estimated at 100 million liters. In 1972, livestock exports
(US$10.9 million), mainly live animals, accounted for about 25% of livestock
production and 50% of all recorded exports. The main customers are Ivory
Coast and Ghana, though exports to the latter have decreased considerably due
to import and currency restrictions.
2.08      The Traditional Producer.  About 70% of Upper Volta cattle are
owned by Peulh pastoralists, who constitute about 6% of the population, and
the remaining 30% of the cattle by crop farmers, who generally entrust most
of their cattle to Peulhs for herding, against payment in kind (usually milk).
About three quarters of the Peulh live outside the Sahel. In the dry season,
those that live in the Sahel move their cattle south to the Sudanian and
Guinean zones, where grazing and water are relatively abundant, and return
to the Sahel at the beginning of the wet season. The typical Peulh'farmer
has about 70 cattle and 30 smallstock; the crop farmer has about five cattle
and 10 smallstock. Herds are grazed by day on communal land and confined to
thorn enclosures by night.
2.09      Productivity.  Traditional production coefficients are low.  Only
about 50% of the calves born reach maturity and are being used for breeding
or sold for slaughter. Milk yields are 150 kg/lactation; it takes 4-8 years
for a steer to attain a slaughter weight of 300-350 kg. The annual production
of a typical Peulh cattle herd (70 head) is estimated at US$1,260, or 21%
of the herd value (US$6,000). Per capita incomes of Peulh pastoralists are
estimated at US$109, including US$24 worth of milk consumption; crop farmers
derive about US$5/capita from livestock in addition to milk consumption to
the US$36/capita earned from crops.
2.10      Animal Health (Annex 1).  Rinderpest and contageous bovine pleuro-
pneumonia (CBPP) have been contained reasonably well as a consequence of an
immunization campaign in 1964-67, financed by FED and USAID.  They remain a
constant threat, however, until a more comprehensive vaccination service is
provided. Anthrax and blackleg are widespread because of inadequate
vaccination cover. Trypanosomiasis occurs in the Guinean and southern part



-4-
of the Sudanian zones but under the prevailing tse-tse challenge, it can be
controlled by prophylactic or curative treatments which are becoming increas-
ingly popular among pastoralists. However, in the dense bush areas of the
south, the heavy tse-tse challenge allows cattle production only with
trypanotolerant breeds. Internal parasites are prevalent and few control
measures are taken. All these diseases responsible for high mortality and
low calving rates are controllable by modern techniques, but the veterinary
vaccination service reaches only about 50% of the cattle population because
of inadequate facilities, staffing and funding. Thus the proposed project
would place considerable emphasis on veterinary vaccination services (Annex 2).
2.11      Livestock Marketing and Meat Processing (Annex 3 and 4).  Livestock
marketing is a complex traditional system and subject to limited government
control. The system, although reasonably adequate, needs improvement to cater
for projected increases in output. Livestock producers sell surplus stock
either directly or through 40 secondary and 20 principal markets to traders
or their agents; these middlemen then move the animals on foot to consumption
centers or, in the case of live animal exports to Abidjan, by railroad. A
few traders export carcass meat from Bobo-Dioulasso and Ouagadougou to Abidjan,
using refrigerated railway trucks. Large slaughterhouses exist in Ouagadougou
and Bobo-Dioulasso, and together handle about 40,000 cattle and 53,000 sheep
and goats per year. Slaughter slabs with simple facilities are normally found
in communities with more than 2,000 people. Meat retailing is handled by
private butchers, without cooling facilities, and meat is sold on the day of
slaughter. SVCP (Societe Voltaique des Cuirs et Peaux), a parastatal company,
is the principal buyer and exporter of hides and skins. ONERA (Office National
de l'Exploitation des Resources Animales) has been created by Government decree
in 1975 in order to consolidate activities for livestock marketing and meat
processing, which previously were the responsibilities of several local author-
ities.
2.12      Taxation.  Presently, Government levies a tax of CFAF 200 per head
on farmers' adult cattle. Marketing and slaughter taxes vary from place to
place; in the Bobo-Dioulasso region, the charge per head is CFAF 100 for
mar'-eting and CFAF 200 for slaughtering. Export taxes amount to CFAF 1,600
per head of live cattle. Although livestock taxes are unpopular, and probably
less than half are collected, they constitute the only proven way of collect-
ing revenue from livestock; they provide about 4% of public revenue.
2.13      Regional Development Organisms (Organisme Regional de Developpement
-- ORD) were first created in 1965 as fully independent entities to promote
rural development in their areas but within the framework of an integrated
national rural development policy. Eleven ORDs cover the country, and only
three are 100% financed by Government. In the others, investment and operat-
ing expenses are financed by FAC, FED, USAID and IDA (Bougouriba). The
majority of ORDs employ foreign development companies as management agents.
Each ORD is administered by its own Board of Directors comprising appointed
Gover,;miient officials and representatives of local authorities and farmers.
Government is represented by a "Commissaire du Gouvernement" who possesses
and exercises considerable controlling powers. ORDs are, in particular,



responsible for providing agricultural extension, training, veterinary, credit
and crop marketing services, and rural infrastructure (roads, wells, ware-
houses, training centers, dams) in collaboration with and under the supervision
of the Division of Water Development and Rural Engineering (HAER). Effective
January 1975, veterinary field services have been transferred to the OR-Ds.
2.14      The Department of Livestock and Animal Industry, of the Mir.stry of
Planning, Rural Development, Environment and Tourism (Ministry of Flan) has
been traditionally concerned with livestock development policy and services
such as animal health, livestock marketing, meat inspection, and animal production.
Following decentralization of field services (para 2.13), the Department would
mainly concern itself with policy formulation, livestock planning and project
monitoring as well as with a limited number of specialized activities such as
operating three livestock farms (Banankeledaga, Samandeni, Markoye), one feed
-mill (Bobo-Dioulasso), and a poultry center (Ouagadougou).
2.15      Four research stations are concerned with livestock and forage pro-
duction. Two of these, IEMVT 1/ and ORSTOM 2/ (Centre Muraz), carry out
research on tryponosomiasis at Bobo-Dioulasso. Two IRAT research stations, at
Saria and Farako Ba, engage mainly in crop research; they are also investigat-
ing the use of improved pastures, the role of work oxen, and the benefits of
cattle manure for crop production. ORSTOM engages in more basic work, includ-
ing soil, hydrologïc, and socioeconomic studies.
2.16      The National Development Bank (Banque Nationale de Developpement -
BND) is responsible for agricultural credit (Annex 5). BND lends about
US$18 million annually, primarily in the agricultural sector. It is a reason-
ably well-managed bank which pursues rather conservative credit policies.
Interest rates are 10% for seasonal credit, and range from 8% to 11% for
medium-term credit for farm equipment. Bad and doubtful debts represent about
10% of credit outstanding; and adequate provision has been made to cover these.
D. Utilization of Pastoral Resources (Annex 1)
2.17      Pastureland constitutes a major national resource.  Natural pastures
comprise about 13.6 million ha, and fallow, which produces some livestock feed,
an additional 8.8 million ha. Taken together, this means that about 80% of
the total land resource is available for utilization by grazing livestock.
Under the present traditional systems involving uncontrolled burning and
minimal herd management, this resource is grossly underutilized. Pasture-
based livestock production can be increased several fold because, unlike the
other so-called Sahelian 3/ countries, 85% of Upper Volta lies Jutside the
1/   Institut  d'Elevage et de Medicines Véteérinaire des Pays Tropicaux.
2/   Office de la Recherche Scientifique et Technique Outre Mer.
3/   Chad, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal.



-6-
Sahel zone and has an average rainfall that favors pasture production. In
the small Sahelian area, the carrying capacity of natural pasture with tradi-
tional management is about 13 ha/AU 1/, and this has already been reached or
exceeded. In the Sudanian and Guinean zones, the carrying capacity under
traditional management is about 7-8 ha/AU, versus present stocking rates of
about 10-14 ha/AU. This can be further improved with better grazing manage-
ment and controlled burning, and it *.xould be possible for the carrying
capacity to be doubled to about 4 ha,AU, and by planting the subtropical
legume Stylosanthes (stylo), which remains green and provides good feed
during the dry season due to its deep rooting ability, carrying capacity
could be increased to about six times the present level. Furthermore, since
stylo improves soil fertility and humus content, it could be a major factor
in facilitating the development of sedentarized agriculture.
2.18      The principal problem in developing the pastoral resource is to
find ways to change the prevailing system of utilization. Under the present
tand tenure system, all land is owned by Government and usufructuary rights
are given to individual farmers for cropping. However, grazing rights are not
granted to individuals and all pastureland is regarded as communal grazing
land, even when it is farmland resting under fallow. An additional complic-
ation is that the crop farmers were the traditional owners of the land and
in practice still regard themselves as such. Thus, although the law extends
to pastoralists equal rights to communal grazing land, village leaders who
allocate the usufructuary rights to land also decide which areas will be
utilized for cropping and which for grazing.   As the pastoralist Peulhs are
"foreigners" in these areas the tendency is for pastoralists to lose out in
suich allocations. More serious, land use conflicts are rising in areas where
population pressure is heavy and increasing the demand for crop land. Another
big problem is, since livestock are individually owned, there is no incentive
for the individual to improve the communally used grazing resource. Under
these circumstances there is a need to first develop group structures that
would enable traditional producers to invest and reap the benefits of modern
ranching technology. The ranching structures developed must, therefore,
(a) provide security of land tenure to traditional livestock procuders; (b)
restrict livestock numbers to the carrying capacity of the land; (c) enable
producers to continue obtaining milk for subsistence while concurrently
increasing cash sales; (d) enable traditional producers to borrow and repay
development loans; and (e) ensure good ranch and rangeland management which
is the key to profitability. Experience with group ranches in Kenya suggests
that this approach could meet all these objectives, and should be put to the
test.
E. Livestock Development Strategy
2.19      The basic objective of Government's development strategy is to
increase the productivity of the livestock and pasture resources. These
1/   Animal Unit (AU):  equivalent to one head of cattle over 1 year old.



-7-
resources are among the country's most valuable assets and at present con-
tribute US$42 million to GDP (11%). Rough estimates indicate that current
levels of production could be increased by six times and offer prospects
for substantially increased incomes and exports (Annex 1). Government pro-
poses to achieve this through: (a) providing improved veterinary vaccina-
tion services; (b) exploiting pasture resources by helping traditional
producers to adopt modern livestock production methods; and (c) providing
improved livestock marketing and meat processing services. The proposed
project would pursue these objectives in an area comprising over one fifth
of the country.
2.20      The most immediate impact can be achieved through increasing the
productivity of the existing national cattle herd by improving currently low
production coefficients. The net return on capital invested in traditionally
raised livestock is not low, at about 16% (Annex 1); but it can be increased
to about 19-20% with quite modest improvements in animal health, in particu-
lar an increase of weaning rates from 39% to 44% and a reduction of calf
mortality from 6% to 4%. Achieving this depends on improving the organiza-
tion and management of the veterinary service to ensure that vaccination
coverage increases from the existing level of about 40% to about 80% of the
national herd or more.
2.21      Achievement of the second objective requires an approach such as
would be implemented under the proposed project. Traditional methods, char-
acterized by low productivity and virtually no investments except in the
herd itself, must be replaced by a form of ranching adapted to local con-
ditions if production from pasture is to be increased. Investment in ranch
infrastructure - water, firebreaks, roads and cattle handling facilities
-- are required together with technical assistance in pasture and livestock
management.  Since major social organizational changes are a prerequisite
for investment (para 2.18), the creation of suitable structures is the first
priority. Under this proposed project, the organization of traditional pro-
ducers into group ranches (para 4.04) would enable them to use modern ranch-
ing techniques. Some moderate success here could double output per animal
unit (US$21 to US$49) and increase it by over six times per hectare (US$2.6
to US$16.3). This would be a pioneering venture for Upper Volta and
sensitive issues -- social, cultural and land use -- must be resolved, as
well as practical issues involving ranch management, loan repayment obliga-
tions, and profit sharing. If group ranches are successful, they could be
developed over most of the country and would therefore, be of major develop-
ment significance.
2.22      Achievement of the third objective requires investment in live-
stock marketing and meat processing to improve these services. Although
existing facilities are reasonably adequate to cater for present needs,
expansion and improvement is required to cater for the substantially in-
creased offtake which would result from improved veterinary services and
pasture development.



-8-
2.23      In the last analysis, a livestock development strategy in Upper
Volta must be formulated in the context of a sound overall agricultural
development policy. This is important because in the Sudano Guinean clim-
atic zones (most of the country) both crop and livestock can be produced
and thus compete for the use of land; under such conditions livestock have
a residual claim on land. This is so because cropping is the most intensive
form of production and results in more human food per unit of land. Under
present conditions of low population density, this is not an immediate issue
but with population growth there is a distinct danger that the livestock
industry may be relegated to insignificant proportions unless the cropping
sector can be made to evolve from the present wasteful system of shifting
cultivation to one based on crop rotation and ultimately mixed crop - live-
stock farming. Under the traditional system of shifting cultivation, it
takes 20 ha of land, including fallow, to support a family cultivating 4 ha
of crops per year. The introduction of a crop rotation system based on
ox-drawn cultivation would allow a family to increase the annual area under
cropping to 7 ha and still release 13 ha of land previously held in fallow,
and would constitute the first state of the integration of crops and live-
stock in the farms. Thus the modernization of cropping would permit accom-
modating the agriculturalist population growth of the next 25 years on the
same land area presently committed to cropping at an even higher level of
productivity and thus of income.  This, in turn, would preserve vast areas
of land for livestock production.  The group ranch component of the project
involving the simultaneous development of traditional crop farming and animal
l-sbandry would be an attempt to serve this strategy.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      The project would cover the ORDs (para 2.13) of Dedougou and Bobo-
Dioulasso in the west of the country (Map); these ORDs constitute one of the
mv-r important and high potential livestock and cropping areas in Upper
Volta. Two others IDA - financed agricultural development projects in the
same area are (i) the West Volta Cotton Project (Credit 275-UV) and (ii) the
Rural Development Fund Project (Credit 317-UV). The area is about 58,000
kl2 and has a population of about 0.9 million.  The project area lies within
the Sudanian eco-climatie zone (Annex 1), with annual rainfall that increases
from about 600 mm in the north to about 1,100 mm in the south. The rain be-
gins gradually in May, and lasts through September; a dry and cooler period
follows through February; and a dry and hot season lasts from March through
June.  Farming systems and the ownership of livestock are typical of the
Sudanian and Guinean zones (Annex 1).
3.02      Group ranching would be located in an area of about 300,000 ha in
the Nanergue, Tegouara, Kouissi and Seguedougou cantons about 100 km west of
,obo-Dioulasso, bordered on the east by the Black Volta river and on the west
, aiî.  Annual rainfall in this area is about 1,100 mm, and about 30% of
~--z ;rea is suitable for crop production.  This area has about 20,000 inhab-
itants; about 84% belong to cropping families; and 16% to Peulh families,



who settled in this region about 20 years ago. Land tenure problems are
similar to those described in para 2.18. It is therefore important for
successful group ranch development to involve crop farmers who are themselves
cattle owners.
3.03      The project area carries about 20% of the country's cattle (490,000
head) and about 20% of sheep and goats (750,000 head). The Samorogouar. sub-
project area carries about 23,000 cattle and 8,000 sheep and goats   Cattle
in the subproject area are of the Zebu type, indicating that trypanosomiasis,
although present, is not a serious problem.
3.04      Communications and social services for the group ranching area are
poor. For purposes of the project, it would be necessary to improve the road
system; improvement of the road connecting Samorogouan with Kourouma in the
north and Orodara in the south should receive priority. This road has been
included in the proposed Rural Road Project which was appraised in December
1974. In addition, the area is served by only three dispensaries, two
schools and four rural education centers; and only 11% of children attend
school compared to 23% for the whole Bobo-Dioulasso ORD. As noted in para
4.20, Governnent has agreed to improve the rural infrastructure and social
services in the area.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Summary Description
4.01      The project would be a broadly based program to assist cattle pro-
duction in Dedougou and Bobo-Dioulasso ORDs through group ranch development
and the improvement of livestock marketing, meat processing and veterinary
services. It would help about 300,000 traditional cattle producers and, in
addition, would introduce modern commercial ranching to the traditional sector
(Annex 6).
4.02      The project, carried out over five years, 1976-80, would comprise:
(a) establishing nine group ranches and a ranch development
center;
(b)  providing improved veterinary services throughout
Dedougou and Bobo-Dioulasso ORDs;
(c) constructing a livestock market and holding ground at
Bobo-Dioulasso as well as improving 730 km of stock routes;
(d) renovating a slaughterhouse at Bobo-Dioulasso; and
(e) providing for training, field trials, project evaluation and
monitoring, and future project preparation.



- 10 -
4.03      A project unit (PU) would be located at Bobo-Dioulasso to coordinate
and supervise project operations (para 4.18) and to implement the livestock
marketing and meat processing components, to be operated subsequently by
ONERA. The veterinary component would be implemented by the Dedougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso ORDs. Bobo-Dioulasso ORD would be responsible for group ranch
development. BND would be the credit channel for livestock marketing, meat
processing and group ranch lending.
B. DetaiLed Features
Group Ranch Development (Annex 6)
4.04       Group ranches would be enterprises in which about 35 Peulh pastoral-
ist families and 150 crop-farming stock owners (families) collectively obtain
a long-term land lease, maintain agreed stocking levels, transfer most of
their herds to collective management, and yet continue to own most of their
livestock as individuals. The legal status of group ranches including the
rights and obligations of the members would be defined in a group ranch
statute acceptable to IDA. The ratification by Government of such a statute
would be a condition of disbursement for this project component (para 4.19).
4.05      Each group ranch would be formed on basis of sociological and
soil studies and following detailed discussions with potential members and
local leaders.  A five-member group ranch committee with representatives of
the pastoralist and crop-farming communities would be elected by group ranch
members; it would be responsible for obtaining a long-term lease from Gov-
ernment and for development and management policies within the provisions
of the group ranch statute (para 4.04). Day-to-day management would be
carried out by a ranch manager who would be employed by the Group Ranch
Development Center after consultations with the group ranch committee.
4.06      Ranch development would include surveying, water development
(including 73 shallow wells), pasture improvement, firebreaks, farm tracks,
fencing, stock handling facilities, staff housing, fara equipment, breeding
stock, steers, and incremental working capital. Average investment per
ranch would be about CFAF 114 million (US$505,000 - Annex 7 Table 1 to 6)
in 1974 prices, equivalent to an investment of CFAF 614,000 (US$2,700) per
participating family. Development on each ranch would be over three years.
The on-ranch carrying capacity would be increased from about 2,200 AU to
about 5,000 AU at full development. Cattle required for subsistence milk
would be retained near the pastoralists' homesteads. All other cattle
would be marked and transferred to collective management, but would remain
the property of the individual owners; feeder steers would be purchased,
owned and managed collectively. Group ranches would be provided with credit
and technical assistance following endorsement of a ranch development plan
by the Ranch Development Center Manager. Debt liability and loan servicing
would be a group function; repayment would be affected by a per-head-of-cattle
charge to individual cattle owners and to the group for collectively owned



- il -
cattle for services rendered. Operating costs would be shared on a per
animal basis. Cattle would be marketed collectively, but individually owned
cattle would be sold at the owner's decision.  The profit from collectively
owned animals would be divided equally between all members.
4.07      The project would finance about nine group ranches of 15,000 ha
each in the Samorogouan area of Bobo-Diculasso ORD (Map); the target would
be to commence development on three ranches in each of the first three project
years. The ranches would be established on land which Government has declared
a special development area and on which the groups could obtain long-term
leases. It would be a condition of credit effectiveness that provision for
granting long-ternm (50-year) leases to participating groups had been made by
Government.
4.08      A Group Ranch Development Center would be created at Samorogouan,
to give technical support to the group ranches and to make draft animals
available to crop farmers (para 4.19). The main investment items would be
staff housing, offices, farm equipment, machinery, farm infrastructure, draft
oxen and working capital. Total investment would be about CFAF 132 million
(US$587,000 - Annex 7 Tables 7 to 9).
Veterinary Service
4.09      An intensive veterinary service would be developed for Dedougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso ORDs (Mtap). The service would ensure (a) vaccination of all
cattle against rinderpest for two years and annual vaccination of weaners
thereafter; (b) annual vaccination of all cattle against CBPP; and (c) vac-
cination of all cattle against anthrax, blackleg and pasteurellosis in areas
where outbreaks occur. In addition, young stock would be dosed once a year
for gastrointestinal parasites. These services would substantially increase
productivity from cattle producers' herds; offtake would increase from about
11% to 13%, representing an increase of about 20% in cattle sales (Annex 7
Table 10). When fully operational (Year 4), the service would reach 410,000
cattle grazing on an area of about 5.6 million ha and owned by about 280,000
cattle producers. The main items provided would include: buildings for two
sector headquarters, five veterinary posts, housing for seven senior staff
and two junior staff, 36 vaccination yards, repairing 23 vaccination yards,
vehicles, veterinary equipment, a stock of vaccines and drugs for two years,
and other operating costs for three years (Annex 7 Table 12).
Livestock Marketing and Meat Processing
4.10      PU would implement the livestock marketing and meat processing
components of this project, and would transfer the facilities to ONERA, which
would operate them.
4.11      Livestock Marketing.  The project would improve 730 km of stock
routes by providing 15 wells and water troughs and 30 small holding grounds
(about 50 ha each). They would be located on the three main stock routes
converging on Bobo-Dioulasso (Map) and their location, following a SCET study,



- 12 -
is specified in detail in Annex 3, Table 2. With existing facilities, this
would provide stock water and grazing at intervals of about 25 km along the
stock routes. PU would contract well construction and maintenance to pri-
vate contractors or to the Government's specialized agency, HAER, which has
adequate equipment and experience for work of this kind. A 6,000 ha holding
ground would be provided near Bobo-Dioulasso; it would have three watering
points, 40 km of firebreaks, and would be identified with concrete posts.
A new livestock market (capacity - 200 head/day) would be provided at
Bobo-Dioulasso to replace the existing market which is badly located with
inadequate facilities.  ONERA would operate the market daily.  Economic
marketing fees would be charged to make the facilities self-supporting.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that (a) manage-
ment of the Bobo-Dioulasso municipal livestock market would be transferred to
ONERA; (b) no livestock marketing would be licensed within the Bobo-Dioulasso
municipality except at the ONERA market; and (c) ONERA would be allowed to
col1ect economic marketing fees (Annex 3), and the municipality would renounce
tlhe marketing tax presently levied. The investment items would include:
surveying, fenced yards for cattle, sheep and goats, water supply, vaccination
crush, weighbridge, railway connection and loading ramp and an office and
shelter (Annex 7 Table 15). Plans have been drawn up by SCET, and PU would
prepare tender documents without difficulty.
4.12      Meat Processing.  The project would provide for the reconstruction
and equipping of the existing Bobo-Dioulasso municipal slaughterhouse, which
would then be operated by ONERA. Slaughtering capacity is overtaxed with the
e-;isting method of operation, whereby private butchers and their helpers
slaughter their own stock and pay a headage fee for using the slaughterhouse,
and steady increases in the number slaughtered annually. About 25,000 cattle
equivalents are now slaughtered annually, and this figure is expected to
reach 31,000 by 1980 and 41,000 by 1985. The slaughterhouse could handle
these projected increases provided that it is re-equiped to allow on-the-line
butchering. The main investr.ent items include repairing, renovating and
painting buildings, meat processing and refrigerating equipment, and consulting
services (Annex 7, Table 16).
1". 13    Under the proposed new system, animals would be slaughtered by
slaughterlhouse employees, and carcasses and edible by-products would be
delivered by the slaughterhouse to butclher stalls.  Economic slaughter fees
wculd be charged to make the facilities self-supporting. These fees, repre-
senting about 3% of the value of the animals, are about 33% higher than the
current slauglhter costs (taxes plus labor); they would be acceptable to the
butchers because of hardship and time losses arising from the present inade-
quate facilities.
4.14      PU would employ consultants to prepare detailed plans and tender
doctuents for the facilities. During negotiations an assurance was obtained
f r-om Government that the consultants and their terms of reference and conditions
of elFovyment would be acceptable to IDA.  Construction would be by contract
in PY 2. Assurances were also obtained from Government that (a) the management



- 13 -
of the Bobo-Dioulasso municipal slaughterhouse would be transferred to ONERA;
(b) no slaughter would be licensed within the Bobo-Dioulasso municipality
except at the ONERA slaughterhouse; (c) the Department of Livestock and Animal
Industry would supervise and enforce proper levels of hygiene; (d) ONERA would
be allowed to collect economic slaughter fees; and (e) the municipaliy would
renounce the slaughter fees presently levied.
Training, Research, Project Monitoring and Preparation (Annex 7, TabLe 24)
4.15      Training.  The project would include in-service training for local
staff as well as four two-year overseas fellowships for selected graduates in
ranch management, dairy production, pig production and agricultural economics.
It would also provide a study tour to Kenya Group ranches for the Project
Director and group ranch leaders as well as short study tours for the Project
Director and other senior staff.
4.16      Field Trials.  The Project Unit would need to conduct simple field
trials, including cheap methods of stylo establishment, management of natural
and improved pastures, and fattening by smallholders. It is expected that the
Ministry of Plan's technical staff would carry out this work in conjunction
with their routine duties. Small amounts of additional seed, fertilizer,
veterinary supplies, and minor consultancy services would be required as well
as cattle (about 100) for smallholder fattening.
4.17      Evaluation, Monitoring and Project Preparation.  The establishment
of group ranches and the improvement of marketing facilities must be regarded
as an important pilot experiment for Upper Volta. For this reason, these
activities should be subjected to careful evaluation and monitoring to assess
whether, in the light of experience, they can be replicated throughout the
country during the implementation of subsequent projects. To that effect,
an assurance was obtained at negotiations that a satisfactory plan for project
evaluation and monitoring would be submitted to IDA before the end of 1976.
The project provides funds for studies, to be carried out partly by consultants,
to identify, inter alia, project possibilities in smallholder fattening and
milk production. In total the project provides funds for about 38 consultant
man-months required for this purpose, for the Ranch Development Center and
ONERA. An assurance was also obtained that the terms of reference for these
studies and the consultants would be acceptable to IDA.
C. Organization and Management
Project Unit (Annex 7 Table 22, 23 and 24)
4.18      Overall responsibility for the project would be vested in an
especially created Project Unit (PU) in the Ministry of Plan. PU would be
responsible for planning, supervising, and monitoring project operations
which would be carried out by the Bobo-Dioulasso and Dedougou ORDs (para 4.17),
and for implementing the livestock marketing and meat processing components.



- 14 -
The project would provide for the equipping and staffing of this Unit which
would be located at Bobo-Dioulasso. PU would consist of a Project Director,
appointed by the Minister of Plan; an Assistant Director (agricultural
economist); an accountant, a civil engineer, and support staff. A livestock
specialist would replace the civil engineer in PY 4. The Project Director
would be responsible to the Minifter of Plan through a Policy and Steering
Committee which would include th. Directors of Livestock, Agricultural
Services and Plan of the Ministry of Plan, the Director of Commerce of the
Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Mines, the General Manager of BND, the
Permanent Secretary of ORDs, and the Presidents of the Bobo-Dioulasso and
Dedougou ORDs. In addition to its normal tasks, PU would be responsible for
arranging overseas training and project-related investigational work. PU
would evaluate all investment plans proposed by the ORDs as to technical,
economic and social suitability, and only plans approved by PU would be
financed under the project. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that
Government would set up PU with the staff and respansibilities described above.
Group Ranches
4.19      The Bobo-Dioulasso ORD would be responsible for implementing the
group ranching components, and would establish and staff the Development
Center at Samorogouan for this purpose (para 4.08). The Development
Center's Manager, an experienced and appropriately qualified livestock
specialist, would be responsible to the General Manager of the ORD. Other
staffing (32) would include group ranch managers, assistant group ranch
managers, office staff, drivers, mechanics, laborers and a veterinary
assistant (Annex 7, Table 8). The Center would:
(a) with the assistance of a local steering committee comprising
local leaders and Administration Officers, select group
ranching areas, survey and demarcate such areas, and select
participants for each group ranch;
(b)  prepare investment plans for each group ranch and arrange
and supervise contracts for planning and constructing water,
roads and firebreaks for the ranches;
(c) establish a central workshop, to repair and maintain tractors
and equipment for the ranches;
(d) provide technical assistance in ranch management by, inter
alia, making available one manager and one assistant manager
to each group ranch;
(e) establish a stylosanthes seed production farm ta supply
the group ranches;
(f) provide in-service training for group ranch leaders, managers
and herders; and



- 15 -
(g) purchase, train and sell work oxen to crop farmers and train
farmers in the management and use of draft oxen.
Each group ranch would elect a group ranch comnittee from its members, and
the ranch manager to be employed by the Development Center would be accept-
able to the group ranch committee (Annex 6). Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the following conditions would be met before a ranch devel-
opment loan was made under the project: (a) that a Group Ranch Statute
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association had been approved by
all necessary governmental action and were in full force and effect in rela-
tion to the Group Ranch for which the Development Loan is proposed; (b) that
the ranch area had been surveyed and demarcated; (c) that the members of the
participating group had been selected and had agreed to participate; (d) that
a long-term lease had been given by Government to the participating group
guaranteeing the exclusive use of the land allocated to the group, for a
period of at least 50 years; and (e) that the rights and obligations of the
participating group as defined in a Group Ranch Statute had been agreed to
by group members, and that all such agreements had been submitted to IDA for
approval (para 4.04).
4.20      Crop farmers comprise about 84% of the inhabitants of the area
where group ranches would be located, and since they are the traditional
owners of the land, it is vital that their cooperation be secured (para
3.02).  Therefore, the project would provide a community development officer
and an agriculturalist for the group ranch component of the project, to
specifically help farmers to improve their operations and to help organize
the improvement of the rural infrastructure, schools, dispensaries, and wells
etc. Funds are available under Credit 225-UV that can be used for the first
purpose and funds from pipeline projects for the latter. PU wouid prepare
detailed investment plans.  Assurances were obtained from Government at nego-
tiations that (a) integrated development of the Samorogouan group ranch
project area would be undertaken; (b) it would make satisfactory arrangements
to finance the cropping and rural infrastructure components of such integrated
development; and (c) the ORD would allocate on a full-time basis 9 extension
officers to help farmers in this area.
Veterinary Services
4.21       Bobo-Dioulasso and Dedougou ORDs would have responsibility for
implementing the veterinary services component of the project. Government
transferred all existing veterinary staff and facilities to the ORDs on
January 1, 1975. Veterinary services would be administered by the two
existing chiefs of veterinary field services, one located in Bobo-Dioulasso
and one in Dedougou. Each would be responsible to the ORD Manager and
would be assisted by supporting supervisory and field staff. The veterinary
staff allocated to the vaccination service (para 4.09) for the two ORDs
would comprise one veterinarian, six veterinary assistants (one of whom
would be the chief of service at Dedougou), 15 veterinary nurses, 15 tem-
porary vaccinators and 26 supporting staff, including office personnel and
drivers. Overall staffing for the Veterinary Vaccination Service comprises



- 16 -
20 existing staff and 35 incremental staff (Annex 7, Table 13). Under the
improved service, veterinary assistants, veterinary nurses and vaccinators
would live in towns and villages where facilities would be provided. An
assurance was obtained at negotiations that Governnent would agree to a
staffing plan along the lines set out in Annex 7, Table 13.
ONERA
4.22      ONERA, an autonomous agency, "Office" responsible to the Minister
of Plan, has been set up by Government to regulate and develop livestock and
meat marketing nation wide (para 2.11). It would have full responsibility
for operating the livestock marketing and meat processing components after
facilities had been developed by PU.  ONERA would have power to fix fees and
charges for livestock marketing and meat processing. Since Government intends
that ONERA should be financially viable, an assurance was obtained at negotia-
tions that ONERA would charge fees for livestock marketing aand slaughtering
that wotuld ensure this. The charges and fees and provisions for compensating
the Bobo-Dioulasso municipality are included in the projections for ONERA
(Annex 7, Tables 18 and 19) as a guideline.
Staffing of Key Positions
4.23      Key project positions would be:  (a) the Project Director; (b) Assist-
ant Director (Agricultural Economist), PU; (c) Civil Engineer, PU; (d) Account-
ant, PU; (e) Livestock Specialist, PU; and (f) the Manager, Group Ranch Devel-
opment Center, who would be a livestock specialist. A senior Voltaic with
appropriate experience would be appointed to the post of Project Director.
As it is unlikely that suitably qualified and experienced Voltaics would be
available to fill the remaining posts, expatriates would probably have to be
recruited. This was requested by Government during negotiations. Expatriate
specialists would have counterparts who would replace them after PY 5. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that the Project
Director, the Assistant Director (Agricultural Economist), PU, the Civil
En,ineer, PUI, the Accountant, PU, and the Development Center Manager would
have qualifications, experience, terms of reference and conditions of appoint-
ment acceptable to IDA. It would be a condition of credit effectiveness that
the rroject Director had been appointed. At negotiations Government has
presented a candidate who is acceptable to IDA.
D. Accounts and Audit
4.24      The Project Unit would be required to set up an accounting system
wliich would reflect the application of funds to various components of the
pr-oject. The accounts of each group ranch would be kept by the Group Ranch
Development Center and would be submitted to BND twice a year. Dedougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso ORDs would be required to maintain separate accounts for the
veterîinary service. ONERA would be required to set up and maintain a satis-
factc,ry accounting system with respect to its Project related operations



- 17 -
which should provide in accordance with sound accounting principles con-
sistently applied, a true aid fair view of the operations and financial
position of ONERA operations under the Project. BND would keep separate
accounts for the project funds it would handle; these would be audited
annually, as now, by both the French Caisse Centrale de Cooperaticn
Economique (CCCE) and by the Financial Controller of the Ministry of Finance.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:  (a) Dedougou and rw:o-Dioulasso
ORDS and ONERA would appoint independent auditors acceptable to !DA; (b) copies
of the audited accounts and of the auditor's report thereon for Bobo-Dioulasso
ORD, Dedougou ORD, ONERA, and BND would be submitted to IDA within four months
of each financial year; and (c) the report of the auditors would be of such
scope and in such detail as IDA may reasonably request.
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Costs
5.01      Total project costs for the five-year disbursement period, 1976-80,
are estimated at US$11.5 million, including a foreign exchange component of
US$4.8 million. The tax component, other than import duties, is about US$0.7
million or 6% of project costs. Project goods would be imported duty-free
and this was confirmed at negotiations. Costs are detailed in Annex 8 and
summarized below.
5.02      Cost estimates are based on prices ruling at the end of 1974, and
include: (a) a physical contingency of 10% on fixed investients, other than
technical services; and (b) expected price increases compounded at the
following annual rates of increase for both local and foreign costs:  for
building and civil works, 16% in 1975, 14% in 1976, 12% in 1977 to 1979,
and 10% in 1980; for vehicles and equipment, 12% in 1975, 10% in 1976, 8%
in 1977 to 1979, and 7% in 1980; for incremental cattle purchases, 8% in
1975, and 10% in 1976 and thereafter; for other incremental operating costs,
10% in 1975, 9% in 1976, 8% in 1977 to 1979, and 7% in 1980; for local costs
included in technical services, 7% in 1975 and thereafter. Total contingen-
cies amount to 45% of the project's base costs.



SUIeIARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Local     Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign  Total  Percent   Percent
of Total  Foreign
(CFAF Million)             (US $ Million)         Base Cost Exchange
Ranch Development
Group Ranches                   740.2      233.7      973.9      3.29    1.0h    h.33        55        2h
Group Ranch Development
Center                    55.3      67.6      122.9      0.25    0.30    0.55         7        55
Sub-total                   795.5      301.3   1,096.8      3.5h    1.3h    h.88        62        27
Veterinary Service                   97.6      110.1      207.7      o.h3    0.h9    0.92        12        53
Livestock Marketing and Ibat
Processing
Livestock Marketing              5L.o       51.3      105.8     0.2h    0.23    0.h7                 1h9
Meat Processing                   8.8       3].2      ho.o      o.O4    O.14    0.18                   78
Suh-total                    62.8       83.0    l145.8      0.28    0.37    0.65         8        57
Project Unit,                        54.1       61.1      115.2     0.2L    0.27    0.51          6        53
Technical Services                   25.7      188.4      21L.1      0.11    o.84    0.95        12        88
Total Base Cost          1,035.7       7ù?.9   1,779.6      h.60    3.31    7.91       100        L2
Physical Contingencies          )16.2       Uh.3       90.5     0.20    0.20    0.40          5
Expected Price Increases        h12o6      298.7      711.3     1.85    1.3h    3.19         ho       42
Sub-total                   h358.8     3h1.      807.9      2.05    1.54    3.59         5        k3
Total Project; Cos'L              le9h.5   1,086.9   2,587.5         6.65   14.85   11.30         -        L2



- 19 -
B. Financing
5.03      The financing of project costs would be as follows:
Project Component                     IDA        Government   BND        Total
-US$ ~~million- --
Group Ranch Development             3.02          0.44      0.87        4.33
Group Ranch Center                  0.43          0.12          -       0.55
Veterinary Service                  0.80          0.12          -       0.92
Livestock Marketing and
Meat Processing                   0.51          0.14         -        0.65
Project Unit                        0.39          0.12          -       0.51
Technical Services                  0.94          0.11          -       0.95
Total Base Cost                 6.09          0.95      0.87        7.91
Unallocated                         2.91          0.35      0.33        3.59
Total                           9.00          1.30      1.20       11.50
Percentage (including taxes)        78%           11%        11%       100%
5.04      The proposed IDA credit for US$9 million would be to Government
on standard ternms. Excluding taxes, which amount to US$0.7 million, the
credit would finance about 83% of project costs. Government's contribution
excluding taxes (US$0.6 million) would cover about 5% of project costs; BND's
contribution (US$1.2 million) would be 11% of project costs excluding taxes.
In terms of total costs, the credit would finance 100% of the project's
foreign exchange costs (US$4.8 million) and 63% (US$4.2 million) of local
currency costs. The remaining 37% (US$2.5 million) of the latter would be
met from Government budgetary allocations (US$1.3 million) and from BND's
resources (US$1.2 million).
5.05      The IDA Credit together with Government's contribution would be
deployed as follows:
(a)  CFAF 362.4 million (US$1.6 million) would be passed on
as a grant to the Ministry of Plan to cover the costs of
PU, technical services and 90% of stock route wells;
(b)  CFAF 207.7 million (US$0.9 million) would be passed on as
a grant to the Dedougou and Bobo-Dioulasso ORDs to cover
the costs of the Veterinary Services;
(c)  CFAF 122.9 million (US$0.5 million) would be lent to the
Bobo-Dioulasso ORD without interest for a term of 20 years
and with a five year grace period, to cover the costs of
the Group Ranch Development Center;



- 20 -
(d) CFAF 112.7 (US$0.5 million) would be lent to ONERA for a
term of 15 years with a five-vear grace period, at 10%
interest per annum, wh:i.cl& it wouldc make available ta PU
to develop livestock marketing and meat processing
facilities. After completion of development, PU would
transfer assets and liabilitles to ONERA, which would
operate the livestock marketing and meat processing
facilities;
(e)  CFAF 776.3 million (US$3.5 million) would be lent to BND
for a term of 18 years with a six-year grace period at
5.5% interest per armum, to extend credit for Group Ranch
Devulopment. Together with its contribution -- CFAF 197.6
million (US$0.9 million) -- BND would on-lend these funda
at 10%. This rate is in line with BNDts interest rates
for other lending oporations in agriculture, and the spread
accruing to BND is sufficient to cover administrative
expenses and rieka. Funds for group ranches -- CFAF 973.9
million (US$4.3 million) -- would be on-lent to final
beneficlaries for a term of 13 years with a six-year grace
period; and
(f) CFAF 735.5 million (US$3.3 million) would be kept in reserve
teo cover contingencies.
"t would be a condition of credit affectivenesa that (a) Covernment had
allocatwd CFAF 60 million (US$0.3 million) tO pre-finance PU and ORD oper-
ations, (W) a subsidiary loan agreement acceptable to IDA had been executed
berwecn Government and BND providing, inter alia, an advance of Government
to BNID of CFAF 60 million (US$0.3 million) to enable BND to pre-finance group
rancin development, and (c) Government and ONERA had entered into arrangements
aecepczable to IDA, to relend funds for the llvestock marketing and meat
procesiing components, and to make these available to PU.  An aasurance was
obtained at negotlations that BND will consider only investment plans that
lhave beenk evaluated and approved by PU as to their technical, financial and
economic viability.
C. Procurement
5.06      Vehicles and equipment (US$U.9 million) would be procured througlh
international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guideline6. Domes-
tically manufactured gooda would be allowed a preference of 15% (or the level
of applicable import duty, whichever is lower). Contracts for (a) building
and construction (US$1.7 million), (b) the installation of 88 wells along
stock routes and for ranch development (US$0.7 million), and (c) the renova-
tion of the Bobo-Dioulasuo slaughterhouse (US$0.1 million), including con-
struction work1s and the purchase of equipmnent, involve numerous operations
scattered over the project area and, phased over three years, would be



- 21 -
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accord-
ance with local procedures which are acceptable to IDA. These contracts are
not large enough to make international tendering appropriate. Draft tender
documents for all contracts exceeding US$100,000 would be submitted to IDA
for approval before invitations were issued. A major part of project costs
(US$3.5 million) would be for cattle purchase, on farm developments, purchase
of seeds and vaccines, staff salaries and operating costs; none of these
would be suitable for competitive bidding. The services of expatriate staff
and consultants (US$1.0 million) would be obtained according to procedures
acceptable to IDA.
D. Disbursement
5.07      The IDA Credit would be disbursed over five years to cover:
(a)  75% of total expenditures for civil works -  US$2.1
million;
(b) CIF cost of equipment required for the Bobo-Dioulasso
slaughterhouse and 85% of total costs for vehicles and
other equipment -- US$0.9 million;
(c) 60% of cattle purchases for group ranches and for the
Group Ranch Development Center -- US$1.1 million;
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures for expatriate personnel
and foreign training, and for consultants for the Bobo-
Dioulasso slaughterhouse -- US$1.0 million;
(e) 75% of the incremental working capital and operating
costs of group ranches, the Group Ranch Center and PU
during the disbursement period, excluding cattle purchases
and foreign expenditures for personnel and training -
US$0.7 million; and
(f) 45% of the total operating costs of the veterinary services
component during the first three years -- US$0.3 million.
US$2.9 million would be unallocated. Annex 9 shows the estimated quarterly
disbursements. Any unspent balance would be cancelled.
5.08      Disbursement would be made against import documentation, contracts,
or certified records of expenditure. For disbursements against the latter,
documentation would not be submitted to IDA for review, but would be retained
by PU or BND for possible scrutiny by IDA supervision missions. PU would
provide assistance in preparing, and endorse all supporting documents needed
for reimbursements and, where relevant, attach an addendum certifying that the
Government had disbursed its share.



- 22 -
VI. PRODUCTION, PRICES, MARKETING, FINANCIAL RESULTS AND COST RECOVERY
Production
6.01      Annual incremental project production by PY 5 would be about
9,500 cattle (900 tons of carcass meat), 800 tons meat from feeder steers
and 550 tons of milk. By full development in 1992 (PY 16), it would be
about 17,500 head (2,200 tons meat), 1,000 tons meat from feeder steers,
and 1,400 tons of milk; this would represent a 35% increase in cattle pro-
duction for herds affected by the improved veterinary service and a 340%
increase in cattle and a 62% increase in milk for group ranch herds (or a
30% increase in cattle and 2% increase in milk for the whole of the project
area). In addition, the project would generate an annual incremental produc-
tion of about 17,500 hides, 340 trained work oxen and 5 tons of stylo seed.
Prices and Marketing
6.02      Free market forces determine the price of live cattle and milk,
and present marketing arrangements are satisfactory (para 2.11). During the
last five years, cattle prices have increased by about 70%. The price of
cattle at the village level varies according to place and season; in the
project area, the price to producers averages about CFAF 80/kg liveweight
for low quality cattle destined for local consumption and about CFAF 120/kg
for high quality steers for export. The average milk price to producers is
about CFAF 25 per litre. These prices have been used in calculating financial
and economic benefits.
6.03      Although Government publishes a schedule for retailed meat price
controls in all cities and towns, the official prices are not enforced.
Thus, actual retail prices exceed controlled prices by some 60-80%. It would
be extremely difficult to police price controls because most meat is retailed
in "heaps" rather than specific cuts by private butchers, and it is easy for
them to increase the proportion of low quality parts included in these heaps.
The level of domestic livestock prices is mainly determined by cattle export
prices and, since Government does not attempt to regulate the number of
cattle exported, the nominal price controls in this particular case are not
an issue of practical importance. Nevertheless, prudent Government policies
are important to the development of the livestock subsector. An assurance
was obtained at negotiations that Government would inform IDA as and when
needed regarding its pricing and marketing policies for the livestock sub-
sector.
6.04      It is estimated that about 50% of the incremental meat production
under the project would be exported and the remainder would be consumed
locally.  The market outlook for meat is very favorable in West Africa
(Annex 4); the strength of demand is shown by rapidly rising prices (para
6.02). Since the incremental production of the project at full development
(PY 16) would not exceed about 11% of present domestic output, it should find



- 23 -
a ready domestic and external market. Incremental milk production would
improve the nutrition of about 320 pastoralist and about 1,700 agricultural
families in the ranching subproject area.
Financial Benefits
6.05      Benefits to cattle producers in the project area that can be readily
quantified--increased cattle offtake and milk production--would be derived
primarily from the improved veterinary service, the group ranches, and improved
livestock marketing and slaughtering. The per capita average annual cash
income from livestock production of about 53,000 pastoralists benefiting
from the improved veterinary service would be, at full development in PY 11,
CFAF 23,600 (US$105) compared with CFAF 19,100 (US$85) without the project.
The average per capita annual cash income from livestock production of about
224,000 livestock-owning farmers benefiting from the service would be, at
full development, CFAF 1,570 (US$7) compared with CFAF 1,130 (US$5) without
the project. The average per capita annual cash income of about 3,000
pastoralists participating in group ranches would be, at full development
in PY 16, CFAF 46,100 (US$205) compared with CFAF 18,000 (US$80) without the
project. The average annual cash income from livestock production of about
14,000 farmers participating in group ranches would be, at full developrment,
CFAF 12,600 (US$56) compared with CFAF 900 (US$4) without the project, in
addition to CFAF 8,000 (US$36) deriving from crops.
6.06      The financial rate of return on investments (Annex 10) would be
as follows: 14% for group ranches; 18% for group ranches if herdsmen's wages,
which would constitute income for group ranch members, were ignored; 18% for
livestock marketing; and 22% for meat processing. Financial projections
indicate that, based on anticipated fees and charges, ONERA would be financially
viable with a positive cumulative cash surplus from Year 2 (Annex 7, Table 21).
In calculating these returns, 1974 prices were used and, with the exception
of 90% of investment costs for stock-route wells (para 5.05), all investments
and operating costs were taken into account. Since stock-route wells will
be located in areas where water supplies for local communities are badly
needed, it is reasonable to treat a large proportion of the investment as
a public service (such investments are normally provided as a public service
in Upper Volta).
Recovery of Project Costs
6.07      Group ranch beneficiaries and LMB would be required to repay to
BND, in full with interest, the loans to develop group ranches and marketing
facilities, respectively. Group Ranch beneficiaries would also be required
to repay the loan for establishing the Samorogouan Development Center although
interest would not be charged because of the development nature of this item.
Thus far vaccination has been provided substantially as a free public service
throughout Upper Volta, and cattle owners have been required to pay a nominal
fee only. This has been considered necessary because some of the livestock
producers would be unable to pay the full cost of vaccination and had they



- 24 -
been required to do so, their unvaccinated herds would constitute a permanent
disease hazard. Yet, Government has been unable to find viable alternative
means of funding the vaccination program and as a consequence it has not been
able to provide adequate veterinary coverage. Ultimately, the recovery of
the cost of providing veterinary services may indeed only be practically
achieved fron taxes levied on the livestock sector but to achieve this, the
present method of taxation would need to be thoroughly overhauled, possibly
in favor of taxing cattle at the point of slaughter or export. Government
would be requested to review the present system of livestock taxation and
propose measures to improve revenue collection from these sources. The im-
plementation of an improved livestock tax collecting system will require
studies and consequently time. In the meantime, project participants in the
project area W.7ould, after a period of demonstration, be expected to contribute
an increasing share of the operating costs of the veterinary service, and pay
the full cvst of vaccinations and drugs after three years; in addition, an
annual charge to cover the full cost of the service thereafter. This would
amouint to a charge of about CFAF 114/animal/year (US$0.51), compared with the
present charge of CFAF 10/animal.  While this is a considerable increase in
absolute terms, it represents only about 0.5% of the value of an average
animal and the majority of farmers should be willing to pay these charges in
return for an efficient veterinary service.  An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that Government would submit before the end of 1976 a plan for
recovering the full costs of the veterinary service over a reasonable period.
6.08      A Government cash flow related to the project is at Annex 11.
Government benefits arise principally from a head tax on livestock; in-
direct taxes on cattle and meat exports; and the interest spread on develop-
ment loans. It is estimated that additional revenue resulting from the
project would amount to about CFAF 90 million (US$0.4 million) in FY 5 and
to about CFAF 135 million (US$0.6 million) at full development.  Assuming
that the operating costs of the Veterinary Service are not recovered, such
revenue would amnount to CFAF 40 million (US$0.2 million) in FY 5 and to about
CFAF 80 million (US$0.4 million) at full development. Government revenue
would therefore be substantially increased by the project.
VII.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The project would be the first comprehensive effort to improve
traditional livestock production in Upper Volta and would yield substantial
benefi,s. At full development in PY 16, project-induced incremental live-
stock prcduction would be worth CFAF 758 million (US$3.4 million) annually
in 1974 terms. A-ssuming that about 50% of the marketed live cattle are
exported, in line with present trading patterns, foreign exchange earnings
wuuld be of tle order of CFAF 359 million (US$1.6 million) a year, as com-
pared with foreign exchange costs of about CFAF 130 million (US$0.6 million).
Tle oroject would benefit 30,000 poor rural families (300,000 persons) (para
5.».5)   The project would help reduce underemployment of family labor which
is considerable, and about 120 new jobs would be created.



- 25 -
7.02      Although quantifiable benefits are substantial, those that cannot
be quantified are still more important. The organization of traditional
producers into the group ranches would be a pioneering venture for Upper
Volta which tackles basic and sensitive development issues -- social, cul-
tural and land use. It would sensitize crop farmers for livestock production
and eventually lead to a unified farming system integrating livestock and
agriculture. The institutional building, training and technical issistance
aspects of this component are of major significance and should provide guide-
lines for future development. If successful, they could set the stage for
widespread development of Upper Voltals vast pasture and livestock resources.
Other benefits that have not been taken into account in the rate of return
calculations include (a) reduced crop damage due to improved stock routes
and livestock marketing facilities, and (b) reduced public health hazard from
contaminated meat due to improved sanitation at slaughter.
7.03           The economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 28%
(Annex 12). An increase in total costs of 10% would lower the rate of
return by 4% (to 24%), an increase of 20% would lower it by 7%.  A decrease
in total benefits of 10% would lower the rate of return by 4% to 24%. Because
of its high rate of return the Project would cover a substantial amount of
the risks which are most likely to occur.
7.04           Risks  The group ranch component is risky because of its pilot
nature and the absence of precedent for this type of development in West
Africa, but it represents the only conceivable mechanism to achieve a better
use of the livestock/pasture resource under conditions in Upper Volta. Al-
though potential members have indicated they would welcome participation --
as evidenced by a social study carried out during preparation and field
investigation during appraisal -- it is extremely difficult to ascertain if
the local community understands the full nature of the changes and commit-
ments involved. In implementing this component, the Samorogouan Development
Center would come to grips with this uncertainty by explaining and inter-
preting the nature of group ranches as well as resolving conflicts and
difficulties as they arise. Furthermore, the potential benefits from
participation, which are substantial (para 6.05), should constitute a strong
incentive to cooperate with the Center. Funds for the group ranches are to
be disbursed in phases and, should the concept of the group ranches not take
hold, disbursements will cease. If this should happen, it would be most
regrettable but it would not jeopardize the remainder of the project. The
rate of return for group ranches is lower than that of the other components
and its omission would in fact increase the arithmetical'average. However,
the rate of return on the group ranch component is highly satisfactory;
furthermore, it does not reflect important non-quantifiable benefits (para
7.02). In sum, although the project does involve risks, the potential benefits
are so important relative to them that the risks are worth taking.



- 26 -
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations agreement was reached with Government on the
following principal points:
(a)  the management of Bobo-Dioulasso livestock market and slaughterhouse
would be transferred tu ONERA; no livestock marketing and slaughter-
ing would be licensed except in ONERA facilities; the Department
of Livestock and Animal Industry would enforce proper standards
of hygiene; ONERA would be allowed to collect adequate fees to
cover its costs; the municipality would renounce taxes presently
levied; and PU would make suitable arrangements for engaging
consultants to prepare plans for the Bobo-Dioulasso slaughterhouse
(para 4.11 and 4.14);
(b)  a plan for project evaluation and monitoring would be
prepared and submitted to IDA for approval before the end of
1976; and terms of reference for studies and consultancies
would be acceptable to IDA (para 4.17);
(c) it would set up the Project Unit and only investment plans
approved by this unit would be financed under the project
(para 4.18);
(d) specified conditions would be met before a ranch development
loan was made under the project (para 4.19);
(e)  integrated development of the Samorogouan group ranch area
would be undertaken; satisfactory arrangements to finance
the cropping and infrastructure components would be made;
and the Bobo-Dioulasso ORD would allocate nine extension
officers to help crop farmers in this area (para 4.20);
(f) it would agree to a staffing plan for veterinary services
along the lines set out in Annex 7, Table 13 (para 4.21);
(g) ONERA would charge fees for livestock marketing and slaugh-
tering that would ensure the financial viability of these
facilities (para 4.22);
(h) candidates selected for key posts as specified would have
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and conditions
of appointment acceptable to IDA (para 4.23);
(i) accounting and auditing procedures outlined in para 4.24
would be adhered to (para 4.24);



- 27 -
(j) BND would consider only investment plans that had been
evaluated and approved by PU (para 5.05);
(k)  Government would inform IDA as and when needed regarding
its pricing and marketing policies for the livestock sub-
sector (para 6.03);
(1) it would submit before the end of 1976 a plan for recovering
the full costs of veterinary services (para 6.07).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the IDA Credit would be that:
(a)  provision had been made by Government for granting long-term
(50-year) leases to participating groups in the group ranch
subproject area which has been declared a special development
area by Government (para 4.07);
(b) the Project Director had been appointed (para 4.23); and
(c) (i) Government had allocated CFAF 60 million (US$0.3 million)
to pre-finance PU and ORD operations, (ii) a subsidiary loan
agreement had been executed between Government and BND
providing, inter alia, an advance of Government to BND of
CFAF 60 million to enable BND to pre-finance group ranch
development, and (c) Government and ONERA had entered into
arrangements acceptable to IDA to relend funds for the
livestock marketing and meat processing components, and to
make these available to PU (para 5.05).
8.03      With the above assurances obtained during negotiations, and condi-
tions, the project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$9 million.






Annex 1
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture and the Livestock Sub-Sector
A. General
2
1.        Upper Volta, a landlocked country of about 274,000 km , is situated
North of the Ivory Coast and Ghana, and is seriously handicapped by its dis-
tance from overseas supplies and markets (the capital, Ouagadougou, is 1,180
km from the nearest seaport, Abidjan). Its population of 5.5 million is
estimated to be growing at about 2% per year.
2.        The annual rainfall ranges from 1,400 mm in the extreme Southwest
(southern Guinean Zone) to 500 mm in the North (Sahelian Zone) and extends
over only a limited period of 90 to 150 days (May to September). Moreover,
there are wide fluctuations (about 20%) in annual rainfall and in its dis-
tribution during the season, causing great variations in crop yields. Average
daily temperatures are high throughout the year (ranging from 250 to 30° C),
and a parching desert wind blows constantly from November to April. This
type of climate permits the growing of drought-resistent annual crops, such
as millet, sorghum, cotton, groundnuts, and sesame, over most of the country,
and mangoes and cashews in the South without irrigation.
3.        Upper Volta's land use is summarized in the following table:
Million Ha.       % of Surface
Crops                         2.2                 8
Fallow                        8.8                32
Natural Pastures             13.6                50
Other                         2.8                10
27.4               100
Crops utilize 40% of total land resources, if fallow land, which is required
to maintain the system, is included. It is estimated that 50 to 70% of the
total area comprise soils which are suitable for cropping, although these
soils have low organic matter levels and are deficient in plant nutrients.
4.        Agriculture is the most important sector of Upper Volta's economy;
it contributes about 40% of GDP, 100% of exports and employs 96% of the
population. Crops and livestock are the two major components of agriculture.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Crops contribute 57°' of agricultural production and about 60% of total ex-
ports; it employs 94% of the population engaged in agriculture.  The basic
food crops are millet, sorghum and maize of which only a very smiall porportion,
perhaps 15%, is narketed.  Cotton is the most important cash crop and by far
the major agricultural export crop, accounting for about 20% of total exports.
Crop production has declined due to the recent droughts: compared co the
1964-1970 period (in constant 1967 prices), it dropped by 14% in 1970/71 and
21% in 1972/73. The first consequence was an increased grain deficit (about
60,000 tons in 1973); but even under normal cliniatic conditions, Upper Volta
needs to import about 30,000 tons annually. With only 6% of the agricultural
population entirely devoted to the livestock sector, livestock contributes
25% of agricultural production and 40% of total exports. Livestock production
comprises cattle (39%), sheep and goats (22%), pigs (4%), milk (21%) and
poultry (14%').  Live cattle is by far the major livestock export, accounting
for about 25% of total exports.  Livestock production stagnated between 1968
and 1971, at a level of about CFAF 8.5 billion. 1)uring the same period,
exports nave decreased considerably, frora CFAF 2.88 billion in 1968 to
CFAF 1.95 billion in 1971. In 1972, production and exports both suddenly
increased: 9% for production and 26% for exports, because of increased selling
due to the drought.
B. Mlain Zones for Livestock and Crop Production
5.        For livestock and crop production, Upper Volta can be divided
into thiree ecoclimatic zones: the Sahel, the Sudanian Zone and the Guinean
Zone.
6.        Sahel:  About 4 million ha (15% of the surface area) are in the
Sahelian Zone, where rainfall varies between 250 and 600 nn per year. The
rainy season lasts about three months (June to September), the dry season
extends over nine months.  Grasses are usually less than 1 m high, and have
relatively high feed values. In some places, trees form open or closed
woodlands or thicl;ets; in other places trees are widely scattered.  'lost
trees are deciduous, fine-leaved, and tsorny.
7.        The Zone is too dry for crop production, although subsistence
cultivation is increasing at its southern fringes.  Trypanosomiasis is not
a problem in the Sahel. The region is stocked with about'560,000 zebu
cattle, 900,000 sheep and goats, 5,000 camels and 50,000 donkeys. 'W1ithout
improvements (wells, etc.), the average carrying capacity is about one
animal unit (AU) 1/ per 8-20 ha. Actual stocking rates have been much
greater (about 5 ha per AU), which led to considerable overgrazing in areas
with good water supply and to losses of about 16-20% of the cattle and 15,4
of the sheep and goats during the recent drought.
1/   1 AU = head of cattle over one year old.



ALNCEX 1
Page 3
8.         Sudanian:  There are about 19 million ha (70% of the surface area)
in this Zone. Rainfall varies between 600 and 1,000 mm per year. The rainy
season lasts for about five months (May to September); the dry season extends
over seven months. It is estinated that 50 to 75% of the area comprise
soils which are suitable for cropping; poor laterite soils occur in the
remainder. The non-cultivated area is covered by tall grasses, mainly
Andropogon ssp., ranging from about 80 cm to 3-4 m. Grass fires occur every
dry season, but most existing shrubs and trees are fire-tolerant. Over
wide areas, trees attain 7-25 m in height and form a light canopy over grass
but with little shrub undergrowth.
9.         Shifting cultivation by small scale subsistence farmers is dominant
in this zone, but livestock husbandry by settled and seminomadic farmers is
also important.  This type of climate permits the growing of drought-resistent
crops, such as millet, sorghum, cotton, groundnuts, sesame and maize.
Trypanosomiasis occurs throughout the zone but diminishes as the dry season
progresses and towards the end it almost disappears. There is a variety of
trypano-tolerant humpless cattle and non-tolerant zebu cattle in the area.
By mid dry season, northern parts are occupied by zebu cattle from the Sahel.
Trypano-tolerant cattle (Mere, Baoule) and Zebu crosses with some trypano-
tolerance are being kept in southern parts.
10.       Guinean:  About 4 million ha (15% of the country's surface area)
are in this Zone, which receives between 1,000 and 1,600 mm average annual
rainfall and is situated in the southwest of the country. The rainy season
lasts for six to seven months (April to October). Outside the valleys, soils
are relatively poor, with laterites predominating. Dense tall grasses
(Hyparrhenia and Andropogon species) predominate; they are usually burnt
during the dry season. Woodlands and forest galleries are common, but are
confined to moist low-lying areas and are seldom continuous for more than
a few kilometers. Tall grass savannah occurs in wide valleys and strips
of evergreen forest fringe the streams.
11.       Crop farming by subsistence cultivators is dominant, but settled
and seminomadic farmers also keep livestock. The most important anmual
crops are minllet, sorghum, maize, cotton, groundnuts, and sesame. Mangoes,
cashews, and sugarcane are also being grown. There is a year-round incidence
of trvpanosomiasis, and the majority of cattle are of the humpless, trypano-
tolerant type (Baoule, Mere).
C. Livestock
12.       Livestock represents a major national resource to Upper Volta.
The livestock population is estimated at about 2.5 million cattle, 4 million
sheep and goats, 200,000 donkeys, 60,000 horses, 5,000 camels and about
150,000 pigs. Poultry are estimated at about 10 million. Cattle, sheep
and goats are distribuited widely over the three main ecological zones (paras
5-11). Growth in the national cattle lherd averaged about 2% in normal years



Page 4
over the past decade, but there have been unquantified losses during recent
drought years.  Virtually all milk and beef production comes from the tradi-
tional sector. About 275,000 head of cattle, 400,000 sheep and 850,000 goats
are slaughtered annually, with a total offtake of about 11%, 25% and 35%,
respectively. Only about 165,000 head of cattle, however, are marketed or
slaughtered through commercial channels, resulting in a commercial offtake
rate of about 6.5%. Total meat production îs estimated at 54,000 m tons of
which 7,000 m tons are exported. Average domestic per capita meat consumption
is 8.6 kg; beef accounts for about half of this, the remainder being shared
by goat, mutton, pork and poultry meat.
13.       Total milk production is estimated at about 100,000 m tons, three-
quarters cow's milk, one-quarter goat's milk, most of which is used for sub-
sistence. The annual volume of livestock and meat exports is about 80,000
head of cattle, 200,000 sheep, 100,000 goats, 750 pigs and 700 tons of beef,
50 tons mutton and goat, 28 tons of horse meat, 10 tons pork and 65 tons
edible offals. Cattle export figures for 1973 are up from previous years.
About 50,000 cattle, 10,000 sheep and 8,500 goats pasa through Upper Volta
on transit from Mali and Niger to coastal consumption centers.
Animal Health
14.       Animal health is one of the main constraints on livestock production.
Most of the common West African animal diseases remain endemic to Upper Volta
as well as to its neighboring countries. Cattle diseases of major commercial
importance are described below.
15.       Rinderpest.  Until recent years, the most serious disease of live-
stock in Upper Volta was rinderpest, a highly infectious disease which can
cause heavy mortality in cattle. It can be controlled by vaccination which
confers a solid immunity lasting for a number of years in vaccinated cattle.
The campaign (JP15) was carried out over the period 1964-67, and financed by
FED/USAID and the Voltaic Government.  Under this campaign, all cattle in
the country were to be vaccinated against rinderpest for three years. Out-
breaks still occur in Upper Volta and in neighboring countries, and the disease
remains a potential threat to the country's cattle population.
16.       Contageous bovine pleuropneumonia (CBPP) is widespread in Upper Volta
and can cause heavy mortality in cattle. It can be effectively controlled by
annual vaccination of all animals. Anthrax and blackleg are two other infec-
tious diseases that occur in cattle in Upper Volta, but their occurrence is
more sporadic than is the case for rinderpest and CBPP. Both are controlled by
vaccination which is confined to areas where outbreaks occur. Pasteurellosis
is another infectious disease which occurs mainly in young stock. It can be
controlled by blanket vaccination of weanlings or by strategic vaccination
in locallzed areas when outbreaks occur.
17.       Trypanosomiasis is a serious disease of cattle and occurs widely in
the Sudanian and Guinean zones. However, the tsetse challenge does not



ANNEX 1
Page 5
warrant expens4ve tsetse-fly eradication programs, as prevention and control
with prophylactic and curative drugs is satisfactory. About one-third of the
cattle are trypano-tolerant, but these cattle are not as productive as the
zebu cattle which are susceptible.
18.       Gastro-intestinal parasites are a main cause of mortality in young
cattle. Ascarids or a combination of Ascarids and Strongyloids are an im-
portant cause of losses in calves 1-8 months old. The practice of confining
calves and other stock in a common night paddock fosters disease and infest-
ation. Treatment with anthelmintics (once or twice during the first 1-8
months) gives a good measure of control with a substantial reduction in
mortality. A number of good anthelmintics are readily available in Upper
Volta. The cost of treating once is about CFAF 30 (about US$0.13) per calf.
19.       Foot and mouth disease occurs in Upper Volta, but is not a major
constraint on production. Control measures are not practiced and are not
considered necessary or worthwhile.  Brucellosis and tuberculosis both occur
but no special control measures are practiced, and it is unlikely that such
measures could be justified at this stage.
20.       Streptothricosis, a skin disease which affects certain strains of
Zebu cattle, is found frequently in the higher rainfall areas in the South.
Indigenous humpless cattle have a high degree of tolerance to the disease.
No effective treatment exists that can be used on a large scale. The use
of high doses of penicillin-streptomycine has been successful; but such
treatments are expensive and uneconomic except in special cases, such as the
treatment of draft oxen. Reasonable results have been obtained with cheaper
dipping or spraying using insecticides and, if necessary, arsenic drugs
and/or quarternary ammonium; project cattle on group ranches would be so
treated if necessary until alternative and more effective treatments are
developed. The Farcha Livestock Institute at N'djamena, Chad, is working
on a vaccine for streptothricosis, and initial results have been encouraging.
21.       In summary, although all the major diseases responsible for economic
loss în cattle are present, they are controllable by modern techniques; how-
ever, the effectiveness of control measures at village level depends on the
provision of an adequate veterinary service. A principal objective of the
proposed project is to increase the productivity of about 0.5 million cattle
in two ORD's by providing an efficient and well-organized veterinary service.
Pasture IÇmprovement
22.       In the Sahel the opportunity does not exist to improve the carrying
capacity through the introduction of pasture legumes, since the rainfall is
inadequate for their successful growth. In the Sudanian and Guinean zones,
with controlled burning and grazing, the carrying capacity can be increased
from about 7 ha to 4 ha/AU. On improved stylo pastures, carrying capacities
can be increased up to about 1 ha/AU in years with above average rainfall.



ANiEX
Pa~ge 6
23.       Tropical legumes, particularly stylosanthes guayanensis and humilis,
thus offer considerable promise for improving vast areas of natural grassland
in Upper Volta. The IRAT Research station near Bobo-Dioulasso is investigat-
ing the production and utilization of stylo and, although work is at a com-
paratively early stage, there is good evidence that stylo will constitute an
important break-through for pasture improvement in the Sudanian and Guinean
zones. Investigational work to date has shown that stylo is well adapted
to the climatic conditions; that it is persistent; that average dry matter
yields of about 10 tons/ha are obtained when phosphatic fertilizer is applied
(100 kg/ha); and that seeding rates should average about 5 kg/ha. More
information is needed on cheap methods of establishment (i.e., strip sowing,
minimal cultivation of the seed bed, establishment on ashes after burning
without cultivation); fertilizer requirement for optimum production; manage-
ment and utilization methods; resistance to fire damage; and its effect on
building soil fertility. Apart from stylo's value in develping improved
pastures, its broader agricultural implications are even more important:
it may be needed in the rotation if shifting cultivation is replaced by
permanent crop pasture farming.
Cattle and Milk Production
24.       Virtually all beef and milk production comes from the traditional
sector. About 70% of the national herd is owned by pastoralists. The
remaining 30% is owned by crop farmers who entrust the management and herding
of a large portion of their cattle to the Peulh, who receive payment in kind,
usually as milk. In the Sahel zone, cattle are owned almost entirely by
pastoralists whose life style and cattle management is truly pastoralist:
in the dry season, they move their cattle south from the Sahel zone to the
Sudanian and Guinean zones, where grazing and water supplies are relatively
abundant, and return to the Sahel at the beginning of the wet season. In
the remainder of the country, the Peulh are generally settled in one location
or practice limited transhumance. Cattle are owned by individuals. The
average herd size is about 70 head for Peulh herds and about five head for
the crop farmers' herd. Although there is marked variation in the size of
herds, the herd composition is typically subsistence with a high proportion
of breeding cows (about 40%). Herds are managed as discrete units, and
the traditional management system consists of grazing by day and confining
to a small thorn enclosure by night; this practice facilitates milking, but con-
stitutes a bacterial and parasitic disease hazard because of the unsanitary
conditions. Technical coefficients are low: a birth rate of 50-60%; a calf
mortality of 20-40%; only about 50% of calves born eventually reach maturity
and are being utilized for breeding or for slaughter; yield per cow, about
150 kg/lactation; and slow growth rates to slaughter weights of 300-350 kg at
4 to 8 years. On the other hand, apart from a minimal level of herding and
subsidized Government vaccination for contageous diseases, there are no other
investments or inputs for the typical herd, and production costs are negligible.
25.       Total offtake from the traditional herd is about 11%, assuming
a stable herd without expansion (Annex 7, Table 1). If the herd is allowed
to grow at about 2% per year, sales are reduced by about 20% compared with



ANNEX 1
Page 7
a stable herd. With improved coefficients resulting from an improved
veterinary service, the breeding herd could grow at about 5% per year, but
annual sales would be reduced by 30% if all the breeding females were retained
and no additional culling practiced.
Profitability of Beef/Dairy Ranching
26.       A typical herd has breeding cows, bulls, calves, steers and heifers
of various ages. As a practical matter, one can view a herd as made up of
units, each of about 2.3-3.0 head, consisting of a cow and her followers,
including male and female progeny that has been weaned. At current producer
prices,'a cow and followers is worth about CFAF 45,700; the profit from milk
and beef is about CFAF 7,500 per year in the traditional sector. This rela-
tionship is tantamount to a return of 16% on investment in livestock. This
calculation assumes no investments other than in livestock, and operating
costs including milk for herding are only about 20% of total output. With
improved coefficients (resulting from an improved veterinary service), the
investment per cow increases to about CFAF 51,400 and the profit to about
CFAF 9,600; this can be viewed as a 19% return on total investment (Table 1).
If, as is the case in Upper Volta, grazing land is free, these are good returns
from investments in livestock. If a potential carrying capacity of 7 ha per
animal unit (AU) is assumed for natural pasture, the profit per hectare is
about CFAF 466 (US$2.1) and CFAF 527 (US$2.3) without and with improved
veterinary services. At present, the stocking rate in the traditional sector
is about 14 ha/AU and, therefore, the profit per ha is about CFAF 233 and
CFAF 264, respectively.
27.       If, however, uncontrolled burning could be stopped by firebreaks,
the carrying capacity can be improved to 4 ha/AU. At this stocking rate,
total investment (including firebreaks) per cow plus followers would be about
CFAF 47,300 and CFAF 53,200 wîthout and with improved veterinary services,
giving returns on total investment of 15% and 17%, respectively. The devel-
opment of firebreaks would not be attractive with existing technical coeffi-
cients for traditional herds when land is free and in plentiful supply. If
group ranch investments and technical coefficients are used (Table 1), the
investment per cow plus followers would be CFAF 117,000 without firebreaks
and CFAF 101,000 with firebreaks, giving returns on total investments of 15%
and 17% and profit per hectare would be CFAF 1,024 and CFAF 1,750, respec-
tively.
28.       If improved stylosanthes pastures were used, costing about CFAF
18,000/ha, the area required per cow plus followers would decrease from 9.6
ha to 2.4 ha; but total investment per cow plus followers would rise to
CFAF 115,400. Gross output per ha (beef and milk) would rise from CFAF 2,750
to CFAF 11,000, but profit would decrease from CFAF 1,750 to CFAF 1,167. The
return on total investment would decrease from 17% to 2.5%. Clearly invest-
ment for pasture development would not be profitable, and can only be justified
on a small portion (about 4%) of the ranch area for special categories (weaners,



ANNEX 1
Page 8
fattening steers, milking cows), or as a dry season feed reserve (Table 1).
At current prices, improved pastures would only be profitable with greatly
improved technical coefficients, or with a more intensive production system
such as dairying. This is particularly significant, since a similar invest-
ment is required to cultivate land for crop production, and returns to the
farner are much higher.  It is unlikely that farmers will invest in pasture
improvement, until (a) the full potential of natural pasture land is ex-
ploited; (b) the price of beef is substantially increased; (c) intensive
milk production with high-yielding cattle is developed; or (d) the cost of
improving pastures (with stylo) is substantially reduced.
Development Strategy for Grazing Cattle
29.       From the above, a livestock development strategy for Upper Volta
can be developed setting priorities and the order in which development steps
should take place:
(i) the first priority should be to improve the productivity of
the existing traditional herd. This can be achieved by
the provision of an improved veterinary service. Under the
project, is is estimated that this would increase the
farmer's return on investment in livestock from 16% to
19%. All farmers can share in the benefits from such
service.
(ii) The second priority should be to increase the stocking rate to
optimum capacity on unimproved natural pastures without any
change in the existing husbandry or management system (apart
from improved veterinary service). Since the rate of return
on investments in livestock is high (para 26), expanding the
herd without changing the traditional production coefficients
involves little or no risk if natural pastures are not stocked
to the limits of their carrying capacity (as is the case in
the Sudanian and Guinean zones) or if unused pasture is
available or becomes available due to tsetse or onchocerciasis
clearance.
(iii)  The third priority should be to control burning by providing
firebreaks, since the carrying capacity of natural pastures
can be almost doubled in this way without changing traditional
production coefficients. The investments required would be
small and the rate of return on total investment would be close
to the return on livestock assuming a traditional system of
management (para 26). Output per hectare would, however,
be almost doubled by this step and farmers' income from a
given area would almost be doubled with only a minor reduction
on the return on capital invested (to about 15%). The risks
Involved in this step are negligible since the production
coefficients assumed are already being achieved by the
traditional sector.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
(iv)  The fourth priority should be the introduction of improved
husbandry techniques through ranch infrastructure (water,
cattle handling yards) and livestock management.  Incremental
investments would be substantial, but incremental benefits
would permit returns on total investments up to 16% (Table 2).
Availability of competent managers would be the greatest
bottleneck for this phase.
(v) The fifth priority should be the use of improved pasture which
in the case of Upper Volta means investment in stylosanthes.
For the Sudanian and Guinean zones, it is estimated that the
carrying capacity is 4 ha/AU for natural pasture with controlled
burning and 1 ha/AU for stylo pastures receiving no fertilizer
dressing except for the year of establishment (100 kg/ha
phosphatic fertilizer). Currently, investments in improved
pastures can only be justified in order to reduce risks in
beef/dairy ranching or, possibly, for intensive milk pro-
duction. Higher prices, lower pasture improvement costs,
or greatly improved techni.cal coefficients are required before
improved pastures on more than 5% of the pasture area is
economically feasible for beef/dairy production.
30.       The framework for livestock and pasture development outlined above
will in practice be modified by cultural, social, political, commercial and
management considerations. Furthermore, the strategy for livestock/pasture
development is only one part of the overall strategy for agriculture which
must also include a development strategy for crop production. Therefore,
although pasture-based livestock production is and will continue to be im-
portant in Upper Volta, because of the vast resources of land and cattle
involved, it is a residual activity in the land-use sense and muet rightly
take second place to all other forms of production. The peasant farmer
understands this and strives to increase the area under crops as being the
best means of providing subsistence food and cash income. In contrast, he
regards livestock as long-term capital, which slowly grows in number (if
breeding females are not sold) and appreciates in value over time, while
at the same time producing milk for subsistence. Cattle constitute, therefore,
his capital savings for use in a family emergency (cattle being readily sold
for cash) such as death, marriage, school fees or dispute settlement.
31.       Smallholder Fattening.  In the densely populated Mossi plateau,
smallholders are increasingly turning to fattening cattle with crop residues
and by-products. After the harvest, one to two steers are fattened in a
simple pen on sorghum and maize straw, together with cottonseed or grain.
Manure is collected and used on crop land. This operation is profitable
because of the low opportunity cost of feed and labor. Over a 100-day fat-
tening period, feeder steers gain about 50 kg liveweight at a cash cost of
about CFAF 4,000. The purchase price for a 250 kg feeder steer is about
CFAF 25,000 and its sales price CFAF 33,000. The margin arising from
weight gains and an increased price per kg liveweight is about CFAF 8,000



ANNEX 1
Page 10
per steer, which is equivalent to a return of about 25% on total capital
investment. Smallholder fattening thus constitutes a widely applicable
opportunity of increasing rural incomes. Government has requested financing
of smallholder fattening of 6,000 steers/year in the Valley du Kou; an
irrigation scheme of 1,260 ha near Bobo-Dioulasso. However, the appraisal
mission was unable to support the request for this particular situation
because: first, most of the one-hectare irrigated smallholder plots cannot
be reached with carts, thus preventing the haulage of fodder and transport
of cattle manure; second, there are no indications that the introduction
of fodder crops is considered by agronomists as a solution to the problem
of declining yields in rice monoculture; and third, there is no evidence
of cattle fattening or a demand for credit by smallholders in the irrigation
scheme. As the mission considers smallholder fattening favorably in principal,
funds are made available under technical services of this project for investi-
gational work in preparation of future lending for smallholder fattening.
32.       Pigs and Poultry.  The current price of balanced pig and poultry
feeds in Upper Volta is about CFAF 40/kg. The price at which the producer
can sell pig and poultry meats can be calculated in approximate terms using
the following equation: producer pig or poultry meat price/kg = feed
price/kg x kg feed/kg liveweight 1/ x 1.33 2/ x 1.33 3/ x 1.2 4/. Using this
formula, the farmer could profitably produce pig meat at about CFAF 526/kg
and poultry meat at about CFAF 265/kg. Since current farmgate prices re-
ceived by producers for pig and poultry meats are about CFAF 133 and 200/kg,
respectively, the opportunity for developing pig or poultry production
clearly does not exist at this time.
33.       At present, almost all pigs and poultry are produced in the tradi-
tional sector with a typical farmer owning one or two scavenger pigs or a
few scavenger poultry.  In addition, a few indifferently managed commercial
pig and poultry operations are found in the vicinity of large towns. Despite
the low price for pigs and poultry, these units are profitable because they
rely mainly on low-priced waste products and by-products as the source of
feed (rice and homebrewing by-products). There is, however, little opportunity
for expansion as the few units established are already using all available
supplies of feed. Until the price relationships are more favorable, there
is little opportunity for developing small-scale comnercial pig or poultry
production. Although the inclusion of manioc in pig and poultry feeds would
substantially reduce their cost, there is little information on its pro-
duction in Upper Volta. However, the Sudanian and Guinean zones appear
suited to manioc production and it is worth investigation as a cheap source
of energy for pigs and poultry. Even if price relationships favored pig and
1/   3 kg for poultry, 6 kg for pigs.
2/   Cost of feed usually accounts for about 75% of total production costs;
therefore, feed costs x 1.33 equals total production costs.
3/   To convert from liveweight to carcass weight assuming a kill-out of 75%.
4/   To allow for a 20% gross profit margin.



ANNEX 1
Page 11
poultry production, it would be extremely difficult if not impossible to
develop small-scale production units given the present shifting cultivation
system with subsistence farmers living in villages. It is difficult to see
how a peasant scavenger system can be improved by degrees. For successful
small scale pig and poultry production, a settled agriculture is necessary
with major reliance on home grown feeds. Since Upper Volta is currently
Importing grains to feed its human population, the prospects for increased
pig and poultry production are dismal.
D. Crop Production
34.       Crop production, the most important agricultural activity, is
characterized by shifting cultivation mainly to fulfill subsistence needs.
The main subsistence crops include sorghum, millet, maize and rice, whereas
the main cash crops are cotton, groundnuts and sesame. About 90% of total
value of farm production is consumed by the family and only about 10% is
marketed for cash. The typical subsistence farm comprises about 4 ha cultivated
per family (10 members). With shifting cultivation, a total of 20 ha is
required per family farm to sustain a cultivated area of 4 ha. Families
live in villages, varying in size from 200 to 2,000 inhabitants, and travel
to and from their cultivated fields.  This farming system is characterized
by poor yields, but production costs are minimal, since the only inputs are
family labor and seeds. Available labor governs the area cultivated and,
on average, one adult labor unit is required per hectare. This shifting
cultivation system is adequate as long as land is plentiful; however, it
can be substantially improved by the introduction of simple technology (im-
proved seeds, fertilizers and draft cattle). With fertilizers and improved
seeds, yields can be improved about 150% to 250% (e.g., sorghum/millet from
700 kg/ha to 1,700 kg/ha; maize from 750 kg/ha to 2,000 kg/ha; and cotton
from 250 kg/ha to 1,200 kg/ha). The use of draft oxen (1 pair) increases
the area cultivated per family by about 3 ha as well as ensuring better
cultivation. The value of crop production per family can thus be increased
from about US$250 to US$1,400 (Table 1).
35.       Shifting cultivation breaks down when land becomes scarce with in-
creasing population. The duration of the fallow is reduced and soil fertility
is inadequately restored. This deterioration in soil fertility may be
corrected by including stylo in the rotation, but this only becomes attractive
with sedentarized agriculture.
Development Strategy for Crop Farmers
36.       At present, crop farming in Upper Volta is carried out on traditional
lines characterized by shifting cultivation and low yields (para 35). The main
constraints include: the absence of modern production methods; the absence
of draft animals which would increase the area cultivated per family; and



ANNEX 1
Page 12
absence of a rotation which would permit a stable system of cropping on a
fixed area. The following development strategy is suggested:
(i) provision of a minimum technical package to shifting cultivators
to enable them ta increase yields under their existing system.
Investments are required to provide an improved extension and
marketing service, seeds and fertilizers. This approach
requires minimal investment per family (about US$200-300) and
enables a large proportion of farmers to participate;
(ii) in addition to (i) above, investments are made in draft cattle
(one pair/family) and simple cultivation and hauling equipment.
Investment per farm would probably not exceed about US$400-500.
The provision of draft animals would about double the area
that can be cultivated per family and would increase family
incomes by about fourfold from traditional cultivation methods
(Table 1);
(iii) in addition to (i) and (ii), families would be settled on a
given area (about 10-12 ha) which they would farm permanently
using a rotation of crop and pastures over 5-7 years. The
additional investments required would be small, but would
include provision for a more intensive extension, training
and marketing service and investment in a simple house to
en-able the farmer to reside permanently on his holding. The
conversion from shifting cultivation to settled agriculture
must be the main development objective, since it would, in
effect, increase the total area available for cropping by
about fourfold. An FAO--financed project, the Matourkou
scheme, has already settled about 350 families on units of
about 12 ha. The main investments in the Matourkou scheme
include extension, seeds, fertilizers and housing. A rotation
consisting of cotton (one year), food grains (maize and sorghum
for two years), other crops (one year) and stylosanthes (two
years) is envisaged. The total investment is about US$400
per family farm and the farm income before and after develop-
ment is estimated at about CFAF 80,000 and CFAF 322,000,
respectively (Table 1). Although it is the intention that
stylo should be grown as part of the rotation, this has not
been done to date.
E. Overall Development Strategy
37.       rrhe overall development strategy for the country or a region must
r-akl 711to consideration (a) land use potential, (b) economic and social
coasi,krations and priorities, (c) organizational and administrative structures.



ANNEX 1
Page 13
Land Use Potential
38.       The Sahel zone (about 15% of total area), because of its low
rainfall, is not suited to crop production.  Therefore, the present system
of utilization (extensive cattle production by pastoralists) is the optimal
system of using resources. There is little room for investments to improve
the system. Assistance for these pastoralists involves the provision of
the simplest infrastructure and services -- water development, disease con-
trol, improvement of livestock marketing, and control of stock numbers
together with grazing management -- usually as a public service.
39.       The Sudanian and Guinean zones have a good potential for both
cropping and livestock development. On average, about 50% of the soils in
these zones are suitable for cropping, and there is a good potential for
investment to finance the development strategy outlined (para 36). There is
also a good potential for investment in livestock to finance the development
strategy outlined above (paras 29-30). In the land use sense, cropping is
a more intensive form of production than livestock and produces considerably
more human food per hectare. Therefore, in utilizing land resources, cropping
should rightly constitute the first priority and only land surplus to cropping,
land unsuitable for cropping or pasture leys required in a crop rotation
should be utilized for livestock production. The present system of shifting
cultivation is wasteful in its use of land resources, although it may be
economically justifiable at present levels of population pressure. With
increasing population pressure, the need to change to a settled agriculture
will become important and this will increase the potential area that can be
cropped each year by about fourfold.
Economic and Social Considerations
40.       Assistance to crop farmers for crop production should constitute
the first investment priority. Furthermore, the investment required per
farm is small although the effect on family income is substantial and the
increase in income takes place quickly. However, even using optimistic
projections for the expansion of crops, the residual areas for livestock
production are still very large. Since the export market for beef is bright,
domestic consumption for beef and milk is growing, and furthermore, consider-
ing that about 40% of rural inhabitants own cattle which are a chief source
of income and virtually their only means of accumulating wealth, there is
ample scope for profitable investment in livestock in Upper Volta. Given
these conditions, the comparative advantage argument forasupporting livestock
production is a compelling one. In addition, beef/dairy ranching practiced
in Upper Volta provides cheap milk to the rural and urban people and, although
the per capita consumption is low, its nutritional significance is substantial.
Management and Organization Structures
41.       The principal problem facing the development of the pastoral
resources is to find a way to overcome the major constraints associated with
the prevailing traditional system of utilization. Under the present land



ANNEX 1
Page 14
tenure system, all land is owned by Government; usufruct rights are given
to individual farmers for cropping but grazing rights are not granted to
individuals and therefore all pastureland is regarded as communal grazing
land. An additional complication is that crop farmers are the traditional
owners of all land, and still regnrd themselves as such; thus, although
the law extends to pastoralists eual rights to communal grazing land, in
practice many village leaders still allocate land to families for cropping
and decide which areas will be utilized for cropping and grazing. Further,
land use conflicts are rising in areas where increasing population pressure
is rapidly increasing the demand on land for cropping. And finally, since
livestock are individually owned, the utilization of communally used grazing
land is subject to conflicting objectives. Clearly there is a need to
develop group structures that would enable traditional producers to invest
and reap the benefits of modern ranching technology. The ranching structures
developed should (a) overcome the problems associated with individual owner-
ship of cattle in combination with communal ownership of grazing lands; (b)
enable producers to continue obtaining milk for subsistence while concurrently
increasing cash sales; (c) enable traditional producers to borrow and repay
development loans; and (d) ensure good ranch and rangeland management which
is the key to profitability. Fortunately, successful experience with group
ranches in Kenya suggests that this approach could meet all these objectives,
and should be put to the test.
42.       For investment in livestock development, it is necessary to develop
organizational structures which will enable traditional livestock farmers to
invest and repay loans. Group ranches would be developed under the proposed
project. The Government would lease land to groups of traditional cattle
producers, who would agree to work together and to confine their cattle to
a specific legally defined area (i.e., a group ranch). The members of a
group ranch borrow as a group for fixed infrastructure, but individuals of a
group agree to repay the loan on the basis of a charge per head of livestock
kept on the ranch, part of which is owned by the group and part by individ-
uals. The formation of such groups is difficult because it involves sensi-
tive social, cultural, economic and political issues.
Integrated Development
43.        Although it is in everybody's interest to develop livestock, the
incentive for the pastoral family is substantially greater than for the crop
farmer because it has 16 times more cattle than a crop farmer and livestock
are of paramount economic importance to it.  In constrast, crop production
is the most Important activity for the crop farmer, and livestock are only
of secondary importance. However, the crop farmer is the traditional owner
of land, and his cooperation and good will are a prerequisite to successful
livestock development.  There is sometimes conflict over what parts of an
area should be utilized by livestock and for cropping, and livestock sometimes
damage crops if herding is negligent or if cultivated fields are not fenced
(and they usually are not). To ensure successful development, all parties



NEX  1
Page 15
must benefit. Inevitably, however, disputes and conflicts of interest will
arise during developient and a nechanism must be developed for resolving
them quickly. The best solution is to undertake integrated development
for the entire area which provides strong incentives to all famillies. Under
the proposed project, an integrated development program would be undertaken
for the 2,000 families in the Samorogouan region. The program would develop
group ranches, provide assistance to crop farmers, and provide rural infra-
structure (roads, schools, health and village wells) for the project area.
The group ranches would be financed under the proposed project, but funds
for investments in crop farming and rural infrastructure would come from
ongoing or upcoming Bank projects.



UPPER VOLTA
LIVESTOÇK DEVELOJP    PROJET
Profitability of Livestock production
at Differunt Stages of Intenaity 1/
4/
Gross    Annual                        ------Return -----         Annual        Annual
Area ver     lerd       Other         Total         Annual   Operating   Annual             On Herd   On Total         Net Output   Cross Output
Stage of Development                          Cow Plus2/  Value        Investment   Investment   Output   Costs           Net Output      Value      Investuent      per ha         ner ha
Follovers
ha         -------------CFAF   '000 per cow plus fellower----   -------------    ---------h----------               -----------CFAF--------
1.  Without Development ....... .......              16.1       45.7             -          45.7        9.6         2.1           7.5            16.4        16.4           466               596
2. With Veterinarv Service                           18.2       50.1            1.3          51.4      12.0        2.4           9.6             19.2        18.7           527               659
3. Firebreaks
(a) Withllqut.veterinary service ....            9 b   4     5.7           1.6          47.3        9.6        2.5           7.1            15.5        15.0            755            1,021
(b) With veterinary service- .;                 10.3        50.1           3.1          53.2       12.0        2.8           9.2            18.4        17,3           893             1,165
4. Ranch Development2/
(a) With veterinary service only ...            16.8        75.3          43.9         119.2       26.4        9.2          17.2            22.8        14.4          1,024            1,571
(b) With veterinary service and firebreaks    9.6           75.3          25.7         101.0       26.4        9.6          16.8            22.3        16.6         1,750             2,750
5. Improved Pasture
(a) Ranch with 47. stylo ..... ........          7.2        75.3          27.2         102.5       26.4        9.7          16.7            22.2        16.3         2,319             3,667
(b) Ranch with 100% stylo    ..........          2.4        75.3          41.1         116.4       26.4       23.6           2.8             3.7         2.4         1,167            11,000
l/ Based on technical coefficients assumed for the Samorogouan group ranch development area with 1,100 mm average annual rainfall; a land rent of CFAF 30/ha has been
included in the operating coste with ranch development and improved pasture.
I 1 Cow plus Followers would also include progeny after weaning and would change from 2.0  animal units before development to
2.1  animal units with the  veterinary subproject and to
2.4 snimal units with ranch firebreaks and pasture development.
3/ Including the employment of ranch manager, foreman, skilled and unekilled laborers and the development of watering facilities, ranch roada, cattle handling
facilities, staff housing, workshops, store, and the purchase of equipment.
4/ Ratio of annual net output to (a) herd value and (b) total investment(including herd value).
May 2, 1975



UPPER VOLTA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
S_alholder 0u~Us ing Tl-:adtionladimprovd Cutivton    s
Produ- er    d rea                                             -
Price       Gu].tivated     Yielud            Qua,t-ty               7alue
GFAk&            ha             lha                                    CRAP
a> Traditional Cultivation
Sorghum/Millet             30             3.0               700            2,100                  63,000
Maize                      33             0.3               750              225                   7,425
Cotton                    40              0.4               350              1LO                   5,600
Groundnuts                25              0.3              600               180                   4,500
Total                                                                                             80. 525
b)  Inproved GultivatiOn
sorghum/Millei            30              3.0            1,700             5,100                 153,000
Maize                     33              1.8            2,000             3,600                 118,800
Cotton                    40              0.8            1,200               960                  33,400
Groundnuts                25              0.4            1,200               480                  12,000
Total                                     7.0                                                    322,200
1/ With one pair of work oxcen and use of fertilizers.
M5ay 7, 1975



ANNEX 2
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Veterinary Service
A. Background
1.        The Department of Livestock and Animal Industries of the Ministry
of Rural Development, headed by the Director of Livestock, is concerned with
livestock development at the national level. Its animal health services
include a small investigational laboratory and a store for vaccines and
other drugs at Ouagadougou. Up to 1974 the field services were directly
under the Director of Livestock; the country was divided into seven veterinary
districts (circonscriptions) which were headed by veterinarians, or by assist-
ant veterinarians in case of shortages of qualified staff. Each veterinary
district comprised about 2-3 veterinary sectors headed by assistant veteri-
narians which in turn comprised about 3-4 veterinary posts headed by veteri-
nary nurses. From January 1975 the field services are expected to operate
under the ORD, and would thus bring the veterinary administration in line with
the general administrative structure.
2.        Vaccination campaigns against the major cattle diseases were started
on a broad scale from 1964-67, when blanket vaccinations against rinderpest
were carried out under Joint Project 15 (JP15), financed by USAID and FED, and
followed by vaccination campaigns against CBPP (Contagious Bovine Pleuropneu-
monia). At that time these two cattle diseases were almost eliminated, but
failure to carry on with the vaccination program due to shortages of staff and
finance led to a reappearance of the two diseases with high resulting
mortality (Table).
Recorded Outbreaks of Major Cattle Diseases 1970-1974
Disease                          1970       1971    1972    1973
Rinderpest                            74         44       26      31
CBPP                                  64         35       36      58
Foot and Mouth Disease                 3         14        -      23
Pasteurellosis                        35         51       31      25
Anthrax                               23          17      19      17
Blackleg                              59        115      109      37
Trypanosomiasis                        3          4       21      il



ANNEX 2
Page 2
3.        From 1970 to 1972, about 20% of the national cattle population were
vaccinated against rinderpest and CBPP (see below). Since 1973 FED is assist-
ing three vaccination campaigns by purchasing equipient and vaccines. The
first campaign in 1973 was started as a drought relief operation; the 1973-74
campaigns included the northern drought areas and the stock routes, and this
operation is to be complemented Jy a third campaign in 1975. In 1973-74
about 40% of the national cattle population bas been vaccinated against
rinderpest. Cattle owners are now being asked to contribute CFAF 5 per
vaccination, and the response is encouraging.
Vaccinations of Cattle 1970-73
1970    1971    1972    1973
'00 Head        ----------
Rinderpest                   379     539      414   1,221
CBPP                         257     133      174      658
Pasteurellosis                65       68      73       77
Anthrax                       20       17      il       14
Blackleg                     118     121      195      160
Trypanosomiasis              304     463      697      651
B. Veterinary Services in the Project Area
4.        A university trained veterinarian heads the service in the Bobo-
Dioulasso ORD, and a veterinary assistant in the Dedougou ORD.  Other existing
technical staff include three veterinary assistants and 22 veterinary nurses
for general field services and five veterinary nurses for special duties,
such as clinics and veterinary inspection services (Table).



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Veterinary Technical Staff in the Bobo-Dioulasso and Dedougou ORD, 1973
Vet.       Vet.      Vet. Nurse
Sector/Post       Veterinarian   Assistant   Nurse   (Special Duty)  Total
Bobo-Dioulasso         1              1          4            2            8
Orodara              -             -           2            -            2
N'Dorola                           -           1            -            1
Hounde               -             -           1            -            1
Subtotal             1             _           8            2           12
Dedougou                               1        5            1            7
Boromo                               -           2            -            2
Safane               -             -           1            -           _
Subtotal             -             1           8            1           10
Tougan                 _              1          2            1            4
Nouna                  -              1          2             1           4
Djibasso             -             -           1            -            1
Solenzo              _             -           1            -            1
Subtotal             -             1           4            1            6
Total             _             4          22            5           32
5.        There are about 50 vaccination yards in the project area, 21 of
which are fully operational, but 23 need repair, and six have to be abandoned.
C. Development Requirements
6.        Additional staff and investments are required in order to reach
about 80% of the cattle in the project area with vaccination services for
the major contagious diseases (rinderpest, CBPP, pasteurellosis, anthrax,
blackleg) and dosing of calves against worm infestations (ascarids and
strongyloids). Two new veterinary sectors (Tougan, Boromo) and five new
veterinary posts (Bagassi, Ouarkoye, Kiembara, Solenzo, Samorogouan) have
to be constructed. Cooling facilities are required for the storage and
transport of vaccines from veterinary headquarters in Ouagadougou to the
field. The complete transport fleet of the vaccination service has to be
renewed (Annex 7 Table 12).



ANNEX 2
Page 4
7.        An efficient vaccination program is estimated to be possible within
a 15 to 20 km radius around a vaccination crush, which has a cattle population
of about 7,000 head (3,000 cows plus followers) representing 100 individual
pastoral herds (Annex 7 Table 10). About 70 vaccination yards would be re-
quired in the project area, of which 36 new yards have to be constructed.
About 20 new crushes would be situated in the Bobo-Dioulasso and 16 in the
Dedougou ORD. In addition, 10 cattle crushes would be constructed as part
of group ranch development in the Samorogouan area. Additional staff require-
ments are one veterinary assistant, five veterinary nurses, 15 temporary vac-
cinators, two accountants, two typists, two drivers, and eight unskilled
laborers (Annex 7, Table 13).
D. Plan of Operation
8.         Over a three-year investment period infrastructure would be developed
in order to reach about 80% of the cattle population in the project area.
During PY 1, about 40 communal herds of 3,000 cows plus followers (57% of
cattle population), would be covered; in Year 2, 50 comnunal herds (71%
of cattle population); and in Year 3, 56 communal herds (80% of cattle
population).
9.         Removing the hazard from contagious diseases and internal parasites
will improve the weaning rate by 5% and the mortality rate of adult cattle
by 2%, thereby increasing the offtake rate from 10.7% without the project
to 13.2% with the project, or by 2.5%.
E. Cost Recovery
10.       To reach a maximum number of cattle with limited available funds,
the Voltaic Government started in 1974 to collect 50% of the vaccine costs
from livestock producers for rinderpest and CBPP vaccinations. Experiences
so far indicate that livestock producers are prepared to pay for these
services. The expected benefits from the subproject would enable them to
pay for the total cost of the service. Livestock producers would pay 50%
of the vaccine costs for rinderpest and CBPP during the first two years
of the project, and in Year 3 they would pay the full cost of all vaccines
and drugs supplied by the Veterinary Service (rinderpest, CBPP, pasteurellosis,
anthrax, blackleg, and anthelmintics). From Year 4, they would pay a fee
covering not only the costs of vaccines, but also the operating costs of that
portion of the Veterinary Service required for the vaccination service
(Annex 7, Tables 11 and 14).
March 20, 1975



ANNEX 3
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Marketing
A. General
1.        Livestock marketing is handled through a complex traditional system
with limited Government control. Excluding livestock consumed locally --
about 40% of the cattle offtake (110,D00 head) and 58% of the sheep and goats
(720,000 head) - the market system handles about 165,000 cattle and 520,000
sheep and goats, as well as transit livestock f'rom Mali and Niger (52,000
cattle and 56,000 sheep and goats).
Markets
2.        In the north producers mainly sell livestock in established markets,
while in the south they usually sell to an intermediary or exporter. Forty-
two secondary markets handle an annual total of about 10,000 cattle and
140,000 sheep and goats, and 20 principal markets handle an annual total of
about 150,000 cattle and 300,000 sheep and goats. Many animals are sold more
than once on their way through the market system; also, many more animals are
presented for sale than are actually sold. Principal markets are mainly sit-
uated along stock routes leading from Mali and Niger to consumption centers
in Ivory Coast, Ghana, Togo and Dahomey and to the railheads at Ouagadougou,
Koudougou and Bobo-Dioulasso.
3.        Market services provided by local municipalities are poor; often
they are restricted to the collection of market fees, and even this is haphaz-
ard and inconsistent. In some areas livestock owners pay a market presenta-
tion fee, in others they pay only after a sale. Market fees range from CFAF
25-100 for cattle and CFAF 5-50 for sheep and goats.
Stock Routes
4.        There are three stock route systems:
(a) Eastern stock routes channelling livestock from Niger and Northeast
Volta to Ouagadougou and to Ghana;
(b)  Central stock routes channelling livestock from Djibo and Mali in
the North to Ouagadougou and Koudougou; and
(c) Western stock routes (map) channelling livestock from Mali and
Northwest Volta to Bobo-Dioulasso.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
The railway is the main means of transportation for slaughter stock exported
to Ivory Coast.
5.        Virtually all cattle and about half the sheep and goats walk to mar-
ket. Whereas improved stock routes have been developed in Eastern and Central
Volta, including watering points and route markings, there are no improvements
on stock routes in the West. Because of agricultural land use
along the routes, it is increasingly difficult to move livestock to the mar-
kets without damage to crops and consequent penalty payments by the livestock
owners.
Control of Livestock Movement
6.        The Department of Livestock and Animal Industry, through its field
services, issues movement permits after inspection of livestock to be marketed
or in transit. Since 1973, cattle are also being vaccinated against rinder-
pest. The inspection fee is CFAF 150 per head of cattle and CFAF 30 per
sheep or goat. The local administration (commandant de cercle) issues a
certificate of origin for all herds of cattle originating in Upper Volta,
against a fee of CFAF 100/herd.
Livestock Trade
7.        Three gr6ups of persons are traditionally involved in livestock mar-
keting: (a) traders, (b) butchers and (c) "brokers". Cattle exporting traders
take out a trading license (patente), the price of which depends on the number
traded. Although local small traders are frequently unlicensed, a trader
handling less than 75 animals per year would pay CFAF 3,000, while a larger
trader selling more than 1,000 would pay CFAF 100,000. About 1,600 cattle
traders pay on average about CFAF 5,100 for their annual licenses. There are
about 800 licensed butchers, who pay an annual fee of about CFAF 4,700.  The
brokers have an important intermediary function; they normally do not obtain
a license but are paid a commission by the buyer.
8.        CEBEV 1/, an organization founded in 1970 by the five "entente" coun-
tries (Upper Volta, Niger, Ivory Coast, Dahomey, Togo), is trying to standard-
ize regulations for the export and import of livestock and meat between these
f ive countries.
9.        ONERA 2/, an autonomous agency, "office," responsible to the
Minister of Plan, has been created by Government in 1975, in order to regulate
and develop livestock and meat marketing nationwide. This would include, inter
alia, the operation of stock routes, markets and slaughterhouses against a fee
collected from beneficiaries, and involvement in the export of cattle and meat.
1/   CEBEV:  Communaute Economique du Betail et de la Viande.
2/   ONERA:  Office National de l'Exploitation des Resources Animales.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Marketing Fees and Taxes
10.       The following fees are collected from marketed livestock:
Sheep and
Description                      Beneficiary           Cattle             Goats
----- CFAF/head --------
1. Sale or Presentation         Local Community        25-100              5.50
Fee
2. Export Tax
- to UDEAO countries 1/    Treasury                 1,620            202.5
- to other countries 2/                            2,220             277.5
3. Import Tax
- by UDEAO countries 1/                               240             30
- by other countries 2/                             3,360            420
4. Transit Tax                                           500              50
5. Veterinary Inspection Fee                             150              30
6. Certificate of Origin                                   1               1
Prices
11.       Livestock prices have increased by about 70% over the last five
years. Prices vary according to region and livestock quality. Fully grown
steers (350 kg liveweight) are generally exported to Abidjan, where they
realize about CFAF 160/kg liveweight -- equivalent to CFAF 130/kg liveweight
at Bobo-Dioulasso after deducting transportation and export costs. Smaller
cattle are usually sold in Upper Volta because they do not fetch the premiun
prices which Ivory Coast and Ghana are prepared to pay for heavier animals.
Smaller steers (200 kg liveweight) or old cows are worth CFAF 80-100/kg live-
weight in Bobo-Dioulasso, or only about 70% of the liveweight price of fully
grown steers. Prices decrease further to the north and in more remote rural
areas. The liveweight price is about CFAF 10/kg lower at Ouagadougou than at
Bobo-Dioulasso. In the pastoral areas of the north, prices are about CFAF
20/kg below the Ouagadougou prices.
12.       Sheep and goat prices are about 10% higher than cattle; they are
especially favored in the rural areas.
1/   UDEAO:  West African Customs Union.
2/   Ghana.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
B. The Subproject
Stock Routes
13.       Three major stock routes converging on Bobo-Dioulasso from the
north would be developed under the project, to permit the unimpeded flow of
livestock from the producer areas to the main market at Bobo-Dioulasso. The
system would handle about 62,000 cattle and 90,000 sheep and goats, which is
the projected throughput by 1985, compared to about 40,000 cattle and 40,000
sheep and goats in 1974. Increased stock numbers would result mainly from
the improved veterinary services and group ranch development, as well as from
an increase in the expected number in transit from Mali (Annex 3 Table 1).
14.       The three stock routes are:  Ouahigouya-Tougan-Dedougou-Bobo-
Dioulasso; Djibasso-Kouka; and Mali-Soin-Nouna-Kouka-Bobo-Dioulasso (Map).
They cover a distance of about 735 km, of which 250 km have to be demarcated
in cultivated areas in the vicinity of villages and small towns. Concrete
posts would be placed at 350 m intervals at a distance of 50 m from one side
of the road along which the stock route is located. Thirty smallholding
grounds (about 50 ha each) would be demarcated at approximately 25 km inter-
vals along the route. About 15 wells would be constructed in order to
guarantee permanent water supplies (Annex 3, Table 2). Although wells would
mainly be used by the local villagers, they are essential for the stock routes
and would, therefore, be financed and maintained under the project.
Holding Ground - Bobo-Dioulasso
15.       A large holding ground of approximately 6,000 ha would be developed
about 3 km outside the Bobo-Dioulasso city boundary on the west side of the
Fo road. The area, currently part of a forest reserve, would be declassified
and demarcated by concrete posts; firebreaks would be developed and maintained;
and three watering points would be provided using the municipal water supply.
The holding ground would have a permanent carrying capacity of about 1,500
animal units, and animals are expected to spend about one to two weeks on the
holding ground. A 3 km stock route would connect the holding ground with the
Bobo-Dioulasso market.
Bobo-Dioulasso Market
16.       A modern livestock market would be developed on the site of the
present "morning market" of Bobo-Dioulasso; it would have a daily capacity of
200 cattle and an equal number of sheep and goats. Facilities would include:
holding pens, watering troughs, vaccination crush, loading ramp for trucks
and for the railway, railway connection and a small office and shelter.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Management
17.       PU would, on behalf of ONERA, implement the investment program and
transfer the stock routes, holding grounds and the Bobo-Dioulasso market to
ONERA, which would manage them through a regional headquarters at Bobo-
Dioulasso to be financed from ONERA's own funds.  ONERA would employ a staff
of six (foreman, market supervisor, two cashiers, one skilled laborer, one
unskilled laborer) to operate market services at Bobo-Dioulasso and to main-
tain stock routes and holding grounds. ONERA's head office would be responsible
for bookkeeping and accounts.
Marketing Fee
18.       The market fee presently collected by the Bobo-Dioulasso municipality
(CFAF 100 for cattle, CFAF 50 for shèep and goats) would be replaced by a new
fee collected at the Bobo-Dioulasso market. The new fee (CFAF 300 for cattle,
CFAF 150 for sheep and goats) would cover use of market stock routes and hold-
ing ground facilities. The municipality would receive a rent from ONERA for
the market place, equivalent to the present net benefits arising from the old
livestock market, or equivalent other benefits.
March 20, 1975



UPPER VOLTA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
/I
Past *nd Proiected Market Throughput
(head)
Before         ----------------------------------------------------- Froject yenr--------------------------------------------------------------
Development-
2            3             4             5            6             7             8             9             10           11-20
CATTLE
Importe fron Mali                                         36,000       36,000        41,000        41,000        41,000       41,000        41,000        41,000        41,000        41,000        41,000
Production of Bobo & Dedougou ORDs                        50,000        54,600       58,500        59,000        62,100       65,400        66,600        68,100        68,700        68,900        69,500
Consumption in Bobo & Dedougou ORD L                     (40 800)      (41,600)     (42.400)      (43.300)      (44,100)      (45.000)     (45.900       (46,800)      (47.800)      (48,700)      (48.700)
Entries in Bobo-Dioulasoo                            45,200        49,000        57.100        56.700       59,000        61.400        61.700        62.300        61.900        61.200        61JO0
Ani.Îl1  on which fee is co1lected  i26,700                             39,200       45700         45.400        47.200        49100                                    49.500
SMALLL RUMINANTS
Imports fron Moli                   /4                    61,000       61,000        61,000        61,000        61,000       61,000        61,000        61,000        61,000        61,000        61,000
Production of Bobo & Dedougou ORD, -                     229,500      234,100       238,800       243,500       248,400       253,400      258,500       263,600       268,900       274,300       279,800
Cons..ption in Bobo & Dedougon ORDs                     (204.000)    (208,100)    (212.200)    ( 500           (220,800)    (225,200)    (229,700)    (234.300)    (23000)    (243800)    (248,700(
Entriee in Bobo-Dioulaseo                            26,500        87,000        87,600        88,000        88,600       89,200        89,800        90,300        90,900        91,500        92,100
Animale on which fee is collected a                       26,000       43,500        43,800        44,000        44,300        44,600       44,900        45,200        45,500        45,800        46,100
/I  The market gy.ten iD at pre.ent working at capacity.
2  Population: 800,000   beef cons..ption: 6.5 llg/npit.; population growing *t 2% per year.
3597. of entries in  .obo-        ..oulosso, before development (;ccording to municipality statistice); 80% after developoent due to inproved efficiency in tax collection,
8heep and goat population:750,000 head,   offtokeo:  30%; 27,   annuel increate.
Population 800,000;    heep ond goat conennptton  2.5 kg/n9oto populotion groowng at 2% per year.
6   30% of entries in Bobo-Dioa...so before development: 50% after development due to inproved cfficiency in tan oollecting.
February 27, 1975



UPPER VOLTA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of Stock Routes and Small Holding Grounds
1/
Holding         Annual Throughput
Distance      Existing Watering Points                             Grounds
Rivers/    Pumps/      Wells to be         to be                     Sheep &
Route                km        Ponds      Swamps      Wells       Constructed      Constructed      Cattle      Goats
Ouahigouya-Tougan . ....... 89              -          -           -             5                 4            7,800      21,000
Tougan-Dedougou  . ......... 84             1          3           5              1                5           15,000      23,000
Dedougou-Bobo-Dioulasso ..... 180           -          1          10              7                9           18,000      23,000
Djibasso-Kouka ........... 98               -          1           7              -                -            5,000         100
Mali-Soin-Nouna-Kouka    ... 123            1          -           5              2                5           14,000      14,000
KoukO  -Bobo-Dioulasso ..---.161            4          3           1              -                7           20,000      17,000
Total             735           6         8          28             15               30
i/ Trekking animals only.
May 2, 1975
FLi |



MNNEX 4
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Meat Procesjing Facilities
A. Current Situation
General
1.        Large abattoirs exist only in Ougadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso.  Else-
where, local butchers and meat traders depend on small abattoirs and slaughter
slabs which are operated by local administrations.  The Livestock Department
regulates livestock movements and through a specialized agency operates the
newly constructed abattoir at Ouagadougou. According to a Livestock Depart-
ment estimate (1973), about 82,000 cattle, 230,000 sheep and goats, and 12,400
pigs are being slaughtered in urban and semirural areas where controlled
slaughter facilities exist. There is no industrial processing of meat, such
as canneries. Livestock exports are mostly live animals, though relatively
small quantities of chilled meat are exported to the Ivory Coast by rail. The
Government wishes to encourage the meat industry, and a new autonomous agency,
ONERA 1/, responsible to the Minister of Plan, has been forred to handle live-
stock and meat exports.
2.        In the larger villages and smaller towns, the simple abattoirs and
slaughter slabs operated by the local administration usually consist of a
shed with concrete floors and mounted beams containing hooks to support the
dressed carcasses. In villages of very small size, slaughtering is done in
simple specified places or, in the case of smallstock, near the house.
Availability of water is frequently a problem. In contrast to the towns,
where storage facilities are available and meat is sold seven days per week,
village butchers may only kill if they are sure that the animal can be sold
on the day of slaughter. Therefore, there is a preference for smallstock
which produce a more manageable quantity of meat at each killing.
3.        In large communities meat inspection is the responsibility of the
Livestock Department. Village butchers depend on their own judgment regard-
ing the wholesomeness of meat.
Ouagadougou Abattoirs
4.        The old abattoir, owned and operated by the Ouagadougou municipality,
consists only of a simple shed with concrete floors and very little equipment;
it will be closed after opening of the new slaughterhouse. In 1973 slaughter-
ings were about 22,500 cattle, 32,400 sheep and goats, and small numbers of
hogs, horses and camels.
1/   ONERA: Office National de l'Exploitation des Resources Animales.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
5.        The new Ouagadougou abattoir, financed mainly by FED grants of about
CFAF 600 million, was completed in the middle of 1974 and was scheduled to be
opened in early 1975. The production capacity is about 13,000 tons carcass
per year; projected slaughterings for Ouagadougou in 1975 will be 3,250 tons
of carcass meat. The slaughter floor is equipped with two cattle dressing
lines, one line for smallstock slaughter, pork slaughter facilities, chill
rooms and auxiliary machinery such as a rendering plant. The slaughter plant
is up to modern standards of meat hygiene and can serve the needs for the
local consumption of Ouagadougou and exports to neighboring countries with
sufficient capacity for expansion. Technical management is supported by tech-
nical assistance of FED, financed for an initial period of two years.
6.        The new abattoir will be managed by a public agency, Abattoir
Frigorifique de Ouagadougou, which will operate on commercial principles. The
major parties concerned, such as Hlinistry of Plan and the BND, are represented
on the Board of Directors. The largest interest is held by the Livestock
Department, which also supplies management staff.
7.        The location of the abattoir some distance north of Ouagadougou is
inconvenient for meat transport and labor supply. Ilowever, a new livestock
market and a holding ground is under construction nearby. The abattoir is
close to the cattle route from Gorom and Markoye - with an annual throughput
of about 21,000 head of cattle -- which would supply the abattoir with slaugh-
ter stock.
8.        The abattoir will offer a slaughter service to butchers and meat
traders, with a permanently employed labor force. The fee is expected to be
set at CFAF 25/kg carcass. The abattoir will also carry out commercial slaugh-
terings and meat marketing on its own account, mainly in the export trade to
the Ivory Coast.  Its success will heavily depend on:  (a) efficiency of
slaughter, (b) suitable meat transport facilities, and (c) acceptance by the
Ivorian market of large quantities of chilled meat.
Bobo-Dioulasso Abattoir
9.        The Bobo-Dioulasso municipal abattoir was built in 1961, at a cost
of CFAF 70 million, and its facilities are made available seven days per week
to private butchers. Annual throughput (1973) is about 20,000 cattle, 6,000
sheep and goats and some hogs, horses and camels. All cattle and most of the
smallstock are slaughtered by the private butchers and their staff. The
facility operates at maximum capacity, under crowded conditions, and meat
hygiene is poor. Ilot water is not available and the chill room is not working
satisfactorily. Substantial renovation work, and the introduction of improved
slaughtering methods, sanitation and management are necessary. The necessary
investments are outlined in paras 20-22 and are detailed in Annex 7 Table 17.
10. Bobo-Dioulasso has the advantage of being the merging point for two
main cattle routes which connect Northwest Volta and Mali with Ivory Coast.
Livestock of smaller size and poorer quality is mainly slaughtered for local



ANNEX 4
Page 3
consumption, while heavier cattle, which can better withstand transport stress,
are preferably exported to Abidjan. The prices paid for lower quality stock
are far below those for the heavier export cattle. Livestock is miainly sold
by traders or their intermediaries who operate between the producing areas
and markets in Bobo-Dioulasso or Abidjan. There is little official inter-
ference in trading. Payment is mainly on a cash basis; some short-term credit
at high interest rates is provided by the cattle sellers. Butchers usually
buy their livestock in the afternoon, and take them to the abattoir for
slaughter the following morning (slaughter starts at 5 a.m. and usually is
completed by 9 a.m.). Since markets are held daily and the meat is sold the
following morning, little working capital is needed by the butchers. The
Livestock Department supervises animal health in livestock movements and
markets.  Stock handling is often poor, with much unnecessary chasing and
beating.  Slaughterings are operated according to Muslim rite, but under
crowded and unsanitary conditions.  About 20 people are permanently employed
in the abattoir, including five tleat inspectors, and butchers and their
helpers bring the total work force to about 190. Animals are dressed on the
floor and edible parts are easily contaminated. Floor and walls are in poor
condition, cold water is available in good quality, but there is no hot water
for cleaning and sterilizing. After slaughter, the carcasses and edible
by-products are transported to the central market by means of one
municipality-owned non-refrigerated meat van. Tlere is, in brief, a rather
desperate need for improved facilities.
11.       The butcher pays the following fees for the use of slaughterhouse
and transport:
Fees per head
Payment                                    Cattle          Sheep/Goat
Use of slaughterhouse                             200               50
`feat inspection                                  100               50
Transport to market                               100               50
,rade license                                     150               15
Total Paynent                                550              165
ButceIer's labor cost (partly paid in-kind)       500              150
Total slaughter Cost                       1,050              315
12.       The five meat inspectors are employees of the Livestock Department,
whlich is partly refunded by the abattoir.  In 1973, the following disease
incidence was recorded: 13 generalized and 1,753 partly affected cases of tu-
berculosis, five bovine cysticercosis, one anthrax and 57 CBPP.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
13.       A new by-product rendering plant, costing about CFAF 19 million and
financed by FAC, is located in a separate building. It is well equipped, in-
cluding a steam boiler. After inauguration, the plant will be able to recover
blood and condemned parts for animal feed. Hides and skins are collected and
dried in a nearby shed, operated and managed by the SVCP. 1/ Processing in-
cludes fleshing and drying on beams; introduction of dipping with arsenic or
a biodegradable insect repellant and framing would improve the quality of
the raw product for further processing. Hides and skins are also transported
to town and processed in several private facilities.
Meat Exports
14.       Livestock exports are primarily on-the-hoof, with live animals
accounting for about 90% of livestock export value. Meat exports from the
Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso abattoirs mainly go by rail to Ivory Coast.
Air freighted exports are negligible.  Meat exports to Ghana and other coastal
countries are of minor importance. Exports of carcass meat have decreased
in recent years, most likely because of the unfavorable transport conditions,
including high costs. MIeat exports to Ivory Coast reached a maximum in 1968
of 1,111 metric tons from Ouagadougou plus 580 tons from Bobo-Dioulasso, but
have steadily dropped since, to only 714 and 140 tons, respectively, in 1973.
Though the railway and an Abidjan-based company (CODAPAG) operate cool wagons,
the service has been unreliable because of the duration of transport and the
poor condition of equipment. CEBEV (Communaute Economique du Betail et de la
Viande) is planning to build an efficient system of meat transport, and its
success will be a prerequisite to increased meat exports if at all economically
feasible.
By-Products
15.       Because most parts of the animal are used for human consumption,
there is not a great scope for rendering. There is a small by-product plant
at Bobo-Dioulasso, and Ouagadougou will soon have a similar operation. The
main product is blood meal, which has a market in the poultry industry.
Where no processing facilities exist, blood is often mixed with stomach content
and spread on the floor to attract egg-laying flies; the resulting maggots
are collected and sold as chicken feed for local poultry production.
Hides and Skins
16.       Hides and skins are collected for processing in all parts of the
country. They are dried in sheds and sold mainly to SVCP which operates buy-
ing stations in various towns of the country. The SVCP also operates a
tannery in Ouagadougou and exports leather and dried raw hides and skins.
1/   Sociéte Voltaique des Cuirs et Peaux.



ARNEX 4
Page 5
Wholesale and Retail Meat Trade
17.       The meat trade in Upper Volta, as in other parts of West Africa, is
based on maximum utilization of the animal parts for human consumption; parts
such as the head, legs, hides ard viscera are often sold directly at the
abattoir to retailers. Slaughter and trading takes place seven days a week.
Meat is retailed in the morning hours in local markets, in specially allocated
spaces or stalls equipped with a table or work bench.
18.       Most meat is sold unchilled, and there is usually no clear distinc-
tion between cuts. A few modern butcher shops in Ouagadougou and Bobo-
Dioulasso handle chilled special cuts and processed meat products, and are
exceptional. The sanitation in many markets and meat stalls is inadequate,
as the operating municipalities and-local administrations do not require main-
tenance standards. Meat is generally sold in four categories: (a) boneless
meat by weight or agreement on total price; (b) bone-in-meat by weight or
agreement on total price; (c) offals by weight or agreement on total price;
and (d) mixed heaps by weight or agreement on total price. The size, composi-
tion and price of heaps, containing meat, offals and bones, are variable and
depend on the seller's judgment and customer's acceptance. Normally, a heap
contains about 60% offals and 40% meat and bones. But it is obvious that
variations in prices can be disguised by increasing or decreasing the propor-
tions.
19.       Government price controls exist for retail meat in the large city
markets but actual prices are far higher. Since the official meat prices are
out of line with livestock prices, it would be impossible for a conforming
butcher to operate. Actual prices are on average 70% above the official price
ceiling. The official price was last reviewed in 1969, and compares as follows
with actual prices in October 1974:
Price (CFAF/kg)
Type                  Category               Official        Actual il
Beef                 Beef, bone-in                 120          200-230
Fillet, untrimmed             300         350-400
Prime cuts                    250         350-450
Liver                         190         400-450
Mutton/Goat          Leg of lamb/goat              250          400-450
Other cuts                    150         250-300
Pork                 Leg of pork                   200          400-500
1/   Variations according to quality.  In foreign owned shops with modern
facilities prices are often higher than the range indicated.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
B. Renovation of the Bobo-Dioulasso Slaughterhouse
Location
20.       The slaughterhouse to be renovated under the project is located on
the northeastern outskirts of Bobo-Dioulasso, with good road access. The
distance to either the new livestock or the central meat market is about 3.5
km. Sufficient space for building expansion and affluent treatment facilities
is readily available in the surrounding area. The railroad from Bobo-Dioulasso
to Ouagadougou passes the slaughterhouse grounds, and a side-track leading to
the loading ramp would permit easy loading for possible meat exports.
Future Organization
21.       The slaughter figures for 1965-73 and projections for 1975-85 are
given in Table 1. To meet these requirements, a cattle slaughter line with
a capacity of 20 head of cattle per hour would be necessary. For smallstock
slaughtering, a reserved area would be allocated within the slaughter hall.
Only minor changes are needed in the hog slaughter room. Slaughter will con-
tinue to be according to Muslim rite, with carcass dressing on-the-rail. Re-
novation works should be completed within a very short period in Project Year
(PY) 2 and slaughter would continue during construction. After renovation all
slaughter would be done by permanently employed staff; livestock owners would
deliver animals for slaughter and collect all parts after processing and pay-
ment of a fee. The new fee would be CFAF 1,200 per head of cattle; it would
include slaughter, meat inspection and transport to market and would have to
be compared to CFAF 900 before development (use of slaughterhouse CFAF 200;
meat inspection CFAF 100; transport to market CFAF 100; butchers' labor cost
CFAF 500). It is not envisaged that the slaughterhouse authority would enter
meat trading at this stage.
Buildings
22.       The present buildings are suitable to house modern slaughter faci-
lities and equipment. However, some minor repairs and improvements are
necessary including (a) general cleaning and painting; (b) concrete floors
and wall tiles for all working areas and the chill room; (c) construction of
a suitable loading dock; (d) fly-proof screening and a lighting system for
work and inspection. The present overhead rail system w1ll be redesigned and
used in the new slaughter line. Also, the office and staff facilities would
be given a general overhaul.
Eguipment
23.       All equipment will be of simple construction and appropriate for
use in the meat industry. No wood will be used within the processing areas.
The on-the-rail dressing facility will utilize a hide puller rather than a



ANNEX 4
Page 7
chain conveyer.  Working platforms would not involve the use of hydraulics
or similar lifting devices. Equipment for edible by-product treatment will
be included. Identification materials are to be supplied to guarantee proper
markings of all products. The chill room will be equipped with a package-type
refrigeration system suitable to operate in the existing climate.
Utilities
24.       All power and water requirements will continue to be provided from
city supplies. Adequate feeder connections already exist for electricity and
water, and both services are reliable. Steam will be generated by the exist-
ing boiler which would have to be repaired. An insulated pipe connection
between the slaughterhouse and recovery plant will be constructed. Sewage
treatment would involve separation of suspended solids and fat from the
effluent by screening and possibly coagulation, followed by digestion in
aerobic-anaerobic lagoons, in adequate facilities and at a good distance from
the slaughterhouse grounds.
Construction and Manaement
25.       For the renovation work, the Project Unit would engage international
consultants, experienced in meat processing, to draw up specifications, plans
and work schedules. A contract would be made through local advertising but
foreign bidders would be welcome. The consultants would assist in the eval-
uation of tenders and would supervise the work program. ONERA would operate
the abattoir on a service basis and would charge a slaughter fee. The muni-
cipal administration would have no direct interest in the abattoir.
Benefits and Justification
26.       Slaughter capacity is overtaxed with the existing method of opera-
tion, whereby private butchers and their helpers slaughter their own cattle.
About 25,000 cattle equivalent are now slaughtered and this figure is expected
to reach 31,000 by 1980 and 41,000 by 1985. The slaughterhouse could handle
these projected increases provided that it is re-equipped to allow on-the-line
butchering. In addition, the improved facilities will eliminate the public
health hazard associated with the present method of slaughtering.
27.       Financial projections indicate that the rate of return on new in-
vestments will be 16% and that the operation of the new slaughterhouse will
be financially viable.
Chill Roomi and Improved Transport Facilities
28.       Government policy is to favor the export of meat instead of live-
stock. In this context the Governnent proposed the construction of an enlarged
chill room and two cool-containers to support meat exports from Bobo-Dioulasso.
Presently, one butcher operates meat exports from Bobo-Dioulasso to Abidjan,



ANNEX 4
Page 8
and he faces obvious constraints, such as inadequate chilling capacity and
unreliable railway transport facilities. However, the distance to Abidjan
is considerable and transport of meat is basically a high cost operation.
Analyses made on various assumptions (Tables 2 to 6) show that the invest-
ments required to support meat exports might be marginally justified on
economic grounds but are financially doubtful and filled with risk (para 29
to 35).  Therefore, it was not recomnended that the proposed facilities would
be financed.
29.       The profit per head of cattle currently made by the exporter -- the
main participant in the process -- is significantly greater for live cattle
than for meat exports:
Export of live cattle .......................................          CFAF 1,399
Export of meat with present facilities ........................... CFAF 1,060
The difference between livestock and meat exports occurs due to higher trans-
port costs, taxes on meat imports and the higher value of the "Sth quarter"
at Abidjan, received from live exported cattle. As Table 2 shows, the cost
of improved facilities would reduce the exporter to a substantial loss of
CFAF 1,770.
30.       A possible alternative would be for ONERA to undertake the invest-
ments and take over exports. The analysis in Tables 3 to 5 shows that the
financial rate of return from this investment would be negative.  Another
fact to face is that the Ivory Coast would lose more financially than Upper
Volta would gain in the switch from live cattle to meat trade. This can be
seen in how the incremental value of the livestock is shared between Upper
Volta and Ivory Coast (Table 6).
Share of Incremental Value
Total
Upper Volta    Ivory Coast    Incremental
Value
(CFAF/head)    (CFAF/head)    (CFAF/head)
Exports of Live cattle                 4,329           5,171          9,500
Mleat export
with present facilities           4,459           4,041          8,500
Meat export with
improved facilities               4,603           3,897          8,500
The additional profit for Upper Volta resulting from exporting meat instead
of livestock is not significant, due to the fact that processing, labor and
transport benefits do not compensate for the loss of revenue from the fifth
quarter sold in Upper Volta at a lower price than in Abidjan in the case of
livestock exports.



ANNEX 4
Page 9
31.       However, there would be additional economic benefits that the aboi;e
analysis does not reveal. To the slight financial gains resulting from ex-
porting meat instead of livestock (CFAF 274 wîth improved facilities) should
be added the extra economic value to the Voltaic consumer of the fifth quarter
of meat which would be consumed in Upper Volta at about CFAF 3,000 instead of
about CFAF 4,000 in Abidjan.  This would mean an economic gain of CFAF 1,000
and would balance the exchange between the two countries. On the other hand,
the value ta the Ivory Coast of more hygienic meat due to better transporta-
tion is not taken into account as it is difficult to place a value to it-
32.       The case against the investments, therefore, must be made with
practical arguments. First, livestock exports exist in substantial quantity,
the trade mechanism works smoothly, and the earnings are important to Upper
Volta. The development of meat exports would require a strong financial in-
centive to be given to the exporter by lowering export taxes; it is likely
that Government would be reluctant to do this since the taxes on meat exports
are already lower than those levied on livestock exports.
33.       Second, the Ivory Coast has little interest in importing chilled
meat and, in fact, a new abattoir to handle imported cattle is planned for
Abidjan.  The possibility must be faced that Ivory Coast might penalize the
marketing of large amounts of chilled meat through increased taxation.
34.       Third, the new abattoir at Ouagadougou has a surplus capacity and
possibilities for increasing exports from this abattoir should take precedent
over further investment at Bobo-Dioulasso.
35.       Finally, CEBEV presently supports a project to purchase and operate
cool wagons which would be used for meat transportation by Upper Volta and
other meat exporting countries. It is recommended that these new existirig
facilities should be utilized before additional investment is undertaken at
Bobo-Dioulasso.
February 22, 1975



UPPER VOLTA                                                            ANNEX 4
Table I
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Actual and Prolected Slaughter at Bobo-Dioulasso
A.  Actual Slauihter 1965 - 74
Cattle Equivalei /1L
Horsea/                       Total            Local
Year              Cattle        Shee,         Goats         Hngs         Donkeys       Camels        Throughput L2 -'  Consuup.  Exporta
1965              16,454        13,249         7,786        3,324          968           -             20,148           15,679      4,469
1966              17,480        12,619        8,121         3,495          932           _             21,172           16,488      4,684
1967              18,288         9,274        4,422         2,811          741           -             21,020           17,235     3,785
1968              19,392         9,487        3,925         1,729          685           3             21,688           18,411      3,277
1969              16,016         4,914         2,160        2,270          419          17             17,753           16,115      1,638
1970              17,734         5,670        3,403         2,973          370           -             19,793           17,878     1,915
1971              20,097         7,561         2,738        2,762          460           1             22,271           18,740      3,531
1972              19,401        4,686         3,316         1,641          560           2             21,126           18,872      2,254
1973              20,215         2,651        3,631           705          543           2             21,478           20,687        791
1974 /1           12,960        4,640         5,090           995          880           4             24,924           23,337      1,587
/lO e cattle equivalent :   13 sheep/goats, 3 hogs, 1 horse/donkey, 1 camel.
/2 5% growth rate per year over period 1965-74.
13 Figures for Nov./Dec. 1974 estimated.
B.  Prolected Slaughter (Cattle  Equivalent) 1975 - 85
Local
Export       Total
1975                                  24,504         1,587        26,091
1976      Project Year 1              25,729         1,587       27,316
1977                    2             27,015         1,587       28,602
1978                    3             28,367         1,587        29,954
1979                    4             29,785         1,587       31,372
1980                    5             31,274         1,587       32,861
1981                    6             32,838         1,587       34,425
1982                    7             34,479         1,587       36,066
1983                    8             36,203         1,587       37,790
1984                    9             38,014         1,587        39,601
1985                    10-20         39,914         1,587        41,501
February 26, 1975



ANNEX 4
Table 2
UPPER VOLUA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cpmparison  if Live tactte & !aea  ivpvrts (ovbe-Otvuiasvt to Abidja-  Shlwxsg Traders' Cests & Benefits
CFAF ,head-
LIVE CATILE                                                         MEAI
Alternative A                              Alternative B
I.    EYPORTER OF LIVE CATTLE OR MEAT FROM
BOBO-DIOLLASSO TO ABIDJAN
tv,rter ' s Overating Costs
21
rchasa of Cattle in Bob-Dioulass . . ...............    45,500                                                      45,500                                      45,500
3/
Slavghree Fee                 ....        ........... ............                                                      200                                      1,500
41
Meat Iespacties Fee .1..0..1..............       ....... ........                                                     1,800                                      1,700
5/
ILce-se Ta .125                                                                                                         275                                        275
Sla fbeh ter   C-ts ........ ... ...   ...........................                                                      500
6/
Chill Roo      lisacn        ............................                                                               516                                        950
I ading & Straw Bedding ..................................                 350                                          100
7/
Repo         ..rt  la.                                    ........ 1,620                                              663                                        678
8/
eae.spvrîatien frem Bebe-Dislasse ti  Abidjan ..............          1,906                                        3,136                                      4,917
'der 3v     C-ts .e      . ..........................................      350
10/
Tvvvrter's Travelling Epenses ......             ......................    250                                          250                                        250
11/
9ahket cùe in Abidjan .          .....................................     500
Total O.e.atine tests.                               ,50.601                                          52.940                                     55.770
Ervarter's Sales
niz
Cattle tvshe tIporter .....              .............................    52,000
13/
Carrant te th. Retailisg Buthehr  ...............          ........       -                                         51,000                                      51.000
14/
3vproducts.  ._                                                               ........................................  3,000                                    3.000
Tytai Sas ....................................    52,000                                              54.000                                     54.000
Etpvrtners P-efit ........          ...................................    1399                                          1                                          1,7701
Il.   IMPORTER OF LIVE CATTLE IN ABIDIAN
Irpvrtert's Operating Costs
P'rchtsù vf Cattle   ...........          ..........................   52,000
15/
Slavghter Fee  ...........          ................................    1,000
Slaughter Ctets ........           ..............................         600
Tetas  Operating Cnts .........................    53,600
Importer's Sales
13/
Carcas ..        ................................................      51,000
14/
Bypr-ducts ..........        .....................................      4.000
Tetal Sales .          .................................    55.000
isporter's Profit ................,                                      1_400
Il    Alternative A:  prensnt Bobo-Dioulasso slaughterhouse   Alternative B:  Bebe-Dieslasse slsghterhkuse  vith iwprevesrnts required fer isere.sed meaC experts
res.vative vf existing  laughterhb...e and chill reen, building of a set chill reom, psrchase of  2 cool wagosa.
2/    350 kg at 130 CFAF/kg.
3/    Alternative A:  includes use  of slaghterheuse; Alternative B:  includes use ef slaughterheune. , a  inspectienfee,  slasghtering and leading coets.
74/    100 CFAF/head in Bebe-Dieulasse; 10 CFAF/kg in Abidjan; in Alternative B:  Bfbo-Dioulasso  fae included in nlaaghter fae (ses footnote 3).
5/    Licsnts  tax aeeprist. a fixed rate af 150 CFAF/head slavghtered and a variable rata fer eperts depedlsg ethb  anssa   vle   f aspects.  T6e rate  f 275 CFAF/head
was calenlated vs the basin ai annual experts amounting te 9,000,000 CFAF, ie. 200   ian
6/     It des oparatig cests and depreclatien of the chill tee..
7/    Live cattLe:  13.S  of 12,000 CFAF (fixed value); meat 1.57. ef teh  barder careas  value:  bordar valsa defised as purchase pries pls inc-rred .s.ts: Alternative A:
CFAP 44,195; Alternative BRCFAF 45,225.
0/    Live cattle:  cherge is estieated by averaging charges for different wagons; mat Alternative A:  charge    CFAF 17.72/kg*,                       Alternative B:  entiaated charge/kg.
inclvdes depreciatien ef the new wagons, opersitsg centg and 10b profit.  In bath astersatives:  carcans  eLight:  117 kg  chilled.
9/    Includes salary (200 CFAF) and traveliag expenses (150 CFAF).
10/   Includes a...naadatien and retirn  ticket.
11/   Paid by the exporter.
12/   Ivitial weight 350 kg  in Bvbe-Diolasse.  lentes during transportatten.25 kg (irêladiag deaths); final weight in Abidjan 325 kg; selling price 160 CFAF/kg.
13/  Initial  careata weight in Bebe-Disclesse 177 kg; Isseas during trasnportioe:  7 kg; final carcass weight in Abidjan 170 kg; selling price 300 CFAF/kg; sith
trcanport lessea
14/   Mainly fifth quarter.
15/   Ircludes th.  ase vf slaughter farilities and meat inspection.
Febru-.r 25, 1975



ANNEX 4
Table 3
UPPER VOLTA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Investments Required for ONERA To Undertake Increased Meat Exports
Investment Costs
('000 CFAF)
Cost             Year 2                   Year 3          Total        Total
Unit        Per Unit   No. Unit    Cost       No. Unit       Cost     Units         Costs
INVESTMENT CATEGORY
Fixed Investment
Civil Construction                      -            -           -         1,920        -           -          -          1,920
Machinery & Equipment                   -            -           -         8,475        -           -          -          8,475
3/
Consulting/Engineering                  -            -           -         2,079        -           -          -          2,079
Refrigerated Transport
Containers ..................  No.             5,000          1         5,000        1          5,000       2         10,000
Refrigerating Equipment           No.          2,500          1         2,500        1          2,500       2          5,000
Container Trailers .No.                          900          1           900        1            900       2          1,800
Sub-Total .8,400                                                                           8,400                 16,800
Total Fixed Investments .-                           -           -        20,874        -          8,400       -         29,274
Physical Contigencies (10%) .-                       -           -         2,087        _            840       -          2,927
Total Fixed Investments .........       -            -           -        22.961        -          9,240       -         32, 201
2/
Incremental Cattle Purchase              No.        42,500        204         8,670      204          8,670    408          17,340
Total Investments .-                                 -           -        31,631       -          17,910       -           49,541
1/ Including:building additional chill room, purchase of two cool wagons, transfer of exports from exporter to ONERA.
2/ 6 weeks of incremental cattle purchases:  204 animals at 45,500 CFAF/head, less 3,000 CFAF for the fifth
quarter sold immediately.
3/ 20% of civil construction and machinery and equipment cost.
February 25, 1975



ANNEX 4
Table 4
UPPER VOLTA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPIMENT PROJECT
Incoune and Operating Costs Required for ONERA To Undertake Increased Meat Exporte
(CFAF '000)
-----Year---------
2             3-20
VOLUME (head)                                                    1,763             3,526
INCREENTAL INCOME                                               -------CFAF'OOO-------
Sales of MeatL. ..  .............................    89,913                 179,826
Sales of By-Prduct. .......                                 5,2891
Total Incremental Income ...................    95,202
/3
INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS-
Slaughterhouse
Butcher .                                 .    -    432
Electricity .........                                          42               465
Water .19  213
Fuel .......... 4. ..................................          32               349
Loss of revenu .        ..................    ........    1904                1904
Sub-total  ...............................          1,997              3,363
Chill Room
Electricity .... ....................................          42               465
Maintenance  .....  ..................................        300               300
Loss of Revenu                 ..                           1282    1.282
Sub-total                     1.624 2.047
Refrigerated Transport
Conveyor ...... .....................................         211               422
Selling Agent .2,000                                                          2,000
Traction .5,251   10,502
Railway Connection .................................           31                 31
Rent of Platform .586                                                         1,172
Taxes ...     .......................................    4,192                8,384
Maintenance Insurance .420                                                      840
Sub-total                                           12691             23.351
Transfer of Exports
Purchase of Cattle /6.                                        80217            160.433
Total Incremental Operating Costs .96529                             189.194
I  Carcass weight: 170 kg: selling price: 300 CFAF/kg.
7T  3.000 CFAF/animal.
7- Operating costs calculated for incremental slaughters:
Year 2: 176 head; Year 3: 1,929 head.
/4  Slaughter fee paid by the exporter: 1,200 CFAF/head;
1,587 head.
/5  operating costs of the chill room paid by the exporter:
808 CFAF/head: 1,587 head.
/6  Year 2: 1,763 animals; Year 3-20: 3,526 animals; purchase
price: 45,500 CFAF/head.
February 27, 1975



ANMEX a
Table 5
UPPER VOLTA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Rate of Return on Investment Required
for ONDA To Undertake Increased Meat Exporte
from the Bobo-Dioulasso Slaughterhouse
('000 CFAF)
Project    Income                                 Coits                         Incre-
Year                       Fixed                                              mental
Invest-         Operating                         Profit
11        ment 2/                   3/       Total
1            .                .               .               .-
2        95,202          22,961            96,529         119,490          (24,288)
3       190,404            9,240          189,194         198,434            8,030
4       190,404               -           189,194         189,194            1,210
5       190,404               -           189,194         189,194            1,210
6       190,404               -           189,194         189,194            1,210
7       190,404            2,500          189,194         191,694          ( 1,290)
8       190,404            2,500          189,194         191,694          ( 1,290)
9       190,404               -           189,194         189,194            1,210
10       190,404               -           189,194         189,194            1,210
il       190,404            3,000          189,194         192,194          ( 1,790)
12       190,404            7,500          189,194         196,694          ( 6,290)
13       190,404            7,500          189,194         196,694          ( 6,290)
14       190,404               -           189,194         189,194            1,210
15       190,404               -           189,194         189,194            1,210
16       190,404               -           189,194         189,194            1,210
17       190,404            2,500          189,194         191,694          ( 1,290)
18       190,404            2,500          189,194         191,694          ( 1,290)
19       190,404               -           189,194         189,194            1,210
20       190,404               -           189,194         189.194             1.210
Financial rate of return:  Smull  than -20%
1/ from Table 4.
2/ Year 2 end 3,  Table 3; other yeare:  replacement.
3/ from Table 4
February 25, 1975



ANNEXK 4
Table 6
-    11 °l' *|II                     °         |- ||qq                           0   1          
R   U  1 1 Il      4>                                                                                                      |l01  C11 
°_V | °  NN|  0  O                                                                                                        1.41 CoCé 
.4      O           1            ' '    Il                                             ,r.I,b-C    . I I Yl 01.   1> 
i |       z »l | i x   ~~iiA|                                                         045- 
014          .0 1. > _                                                                                    0 h XX tgtt4   °  l 



ANNEX 5
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banque Nationale de Developpement (BND)
Background
1.        Upper Volta, together with six other countries, is a member of the
West African Monetary Union, which became effective in its present form in
1962. Member countries share a common currency, the CFA franc (franc de la
Communaute Financiere Africaine -- CFAF) and a common Central Bank, La Banque
Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO). Commercial banking ser-
vices in Upper Volta are provided by the Banque Nationale de Developpement
(BND), the Banque Internationale pour le Commerce, l'Industrie et l'Agricul-
ture en Haute Volta (BICIA-HV) and the Banque Internationale de l'Afrique de
l'Ouest (BIAO).
2.        Long term loans to the private sector and medium- and short-term
agricultural loans are mainly financed and regulated by BND.
BND
3.        Objectives.  BND objectives are to provide technical and financial
assistance to carry out all projects capable of furthering the economic and
social development of Upper Volta. Assistance is provided through participa-
tion in enterprises and through supplying credits to:
-    craftsmen, industry and commerce, and consumers for the purchase
of semidurable goods (appliances, furniture and vehicles);
-    housing;
-    public entities for investments;
-    and agriculture.
4.   Administration and Management.  BND is managed by an administrative coun-
cil composed of 12 members:, eight from Government Departments and four from
the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) and Fonds d'Aide et Co-
opération (FAC) - the French technical assistance agencies - and BCEAO. It
is responsible for defining and implementing policies and credit programs.
The Board may delegate some of its powers to subcommittees on which the
shareholders are represented in the same proportion as on the Board. The
General Manager is nominated by a three-fourths majority of the Board, and is
appointed by the Government.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
5.        Organization and Staff.  BND is responsible to the Minister of Com-
merce and Industry and Mines. It is organized in three administrative divi-
sions (Personnel and Material, Accountancy and Mechanical Bookkeeping, Studies
and Audit) and four operational divisions (Non-Agricultural Credit, Agricul-
tural Credit, Debt Collection, Financial Operations). BND is responsible for
managing the Rural Development Fund Project and has created a special division
for that purpose. The Bank's headquarters is located in Ouagadougou; a branch
has been opened in Bobo-Dioulasso; and minor agencies represent the bank in
Koudougou and Banfora.
6.        Total BND staff has increased considerably in the last three years,
from 60 in 1971 to 110 in 1974. Meanwhile, expatriate staff provided by CCCE
has heen reduced from five to three. BND personnel are well-trained and
generally qualified for the tasks assigned to them.
7.        External Control.  External control is exercised by the Financial
Controller of the Ministry of Finance and the Inspector of the CCCE. These
two auditors are appointed by the Meeting of Shareholders. As agreed with
the West African Monetary Union, BCEAO receives monthly statements on BND's
financial and liquidity position (in addition to annual reports and accounts).
Present control arrangements, both internal and external, are adequate.
8.        Sources of Funds.  Funds originate from BND's own resources (capital,
provisions, and profit), with supplemental funds provided to BND mainly by CCCE
through long- and medium-term loans, by customers through current and blocked
accounts, and by BCEAO through rediscount facilities. Up to 65% of the total
of medium-term loans are rediscounted for five years and up to 90% of marketing
loans for one year; the rediscount interest rate has recently been increased
from 3.5% to 5.5%.
9.        Lending Operations.  BND's operations have quintupled in the last
five years:
Loans                   Amount
(Number)             (CFAF million)
1968                             4,272                       756
1969                             5,588                     1,475
1970                              6,778                    2,438
1971                             7,749                     2,105
1972                             7,894                     5,035
1973                             7,711                     3,881
10.       The following breakdown of 1973 activities indicates that agricul-
ture and real estate were the largest areas of lending for BND:



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Loans          Amount           Percent
(No.)     (CFAF million)          (%)
Agriculture                   70          1,242             32.0
Artisans                       8             12              0.3
Trade                         73            482             12.4
Real Estate                1,928          1,145             29.5
Small Equipment            5,623            236              6.1
Industry                       4            164              4.2
Public Services                5            600              15.5
Total                7,711           3,881            100
11.       BND makes short-term loans up to two years, medium-term loans up to
seven years and long-term loans up to 20 years. Down payments required vary
from 10%O to 50%, depending on the nature and duration of the loan. Long-term
credits are generally made at 11%; for short-term and medium-term credits,
rates of interest vary from 8% to 11%, depending on the nature and amount of
the credit and the possibility of having it rediscounted.
12.       Agricultural credits are made to the 11 ORDs, which on-lend to far-
mers on a short-term and medium-term basis.  Approval of credit applications
is given by ORDs. Risks are covered in the first instance by each ORD, through
a guarantee fund, and ultimately by a government guarantee of the credit re-
ceived from BND.  For equipment credits, farmers make a down payment of 50%
for loans to be repaid within 12 months, at an interest rate of 11%; the down
payment is 35% for loans to be repaid within two years, and the interest rate
is 8%. Farmers pay a fixed commission of 5% for seasonal input credit; repay-
ment is over six months, thus raising the effective rate of interest to 10%.
Interest charged by BND to ORD has been increased from 5.5% to 9.5%. This
increase leaves the ORD with a very slim margin on its own lending, especially
considering that credit analysis and the undertaking of risk remain the re-
sponsibility of ORD.
13.       Financial Results.  BND financial statements (Tables 1 & 2) show
that net income dropped sharply from CFAF 28.1 million in 1971 to CFAF 1.1
million in 1973. This serious deterioration in BND's profitability is due
to two major causes:
-    the average interest rate paid on resources rose from 1.6% in 1971
to 1.9% in 1973, while the average rate of interest received on
assets decreased from 5.5% in 1971 to 5.2% in 1973, resulting in a
margin of 3.3% in 1973 versus 3.9% in 1971;
-    13.8% of maturities remained upaid in 1973 versus 6.8% in 1971, re-
sulting in an increase of bad-debt provisions from CFAF 14.6 million
in 1971 to CFAF 67.1 million in 1973. However, bad and doubtful
debts remain at a satisfactory level (10% of credit outstanding)
and provisions are adequate (80% of bad and doubtful debts).



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Furthermore, BND's financial position deteriorated in 1974 because Government
forced it to finance unprofitable grain-buying operations. Because BND will
need adequate margins to service rising debt obligations, management should
pay particular attention to restoring profitability by improving its control
over interest rate margins and the efficiency of credit collection.
14.       BND's balance sheets (Table 2) indicate that it is increasingly
dependent on long-term borrowing for financing its activities: long-ternm
and medium-term debts amounted to 2.3 times equity in 1973 versus 1.1 in
1971. The 1973 debt-equity ratio is still satisfactory, considering the
Bank's activities, but it should not be allowed to increase substantially
above this level.
15.       ProjiectCredit.  BND would act as the credit channel for group
ranch loans under the Project. Group ranches will mainly need long-term
credit to finance their investment costs. Funds would be channelled directly
from BND to group ranches without administrative intervention by the ORD.
This arrangement is made possible by the low number of beneficiaries (nine
group ranches) and loans, and by the existence of a BND branch in the project
region. Credit applications by group ranches would be screened by the Project
Unit which is in the best position to assess the soundness of the applications.
Final approval would be given by BND, which would share the risk witn Govern-
ment under its guarantee. As cattle will be sold by group ranches, credit
repayments would be obtained easily by deductions from the sale of cattle.
BND would receive the project funds from Government at 5.5% for a term of
18 years, with a six-year grace period for repayment of the principal; it would
on-lend them at 10%, for a term of 13 years, with a six-year grace period for
repayment of the principal.
March 20, 1975



ANNEX 5
Table l
UPPER VOLTA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bancue Nationale de _leveloppement
Income Statement
(CFAF' 000)
at September 30                                  1971              1972              1973
Income
Interest and commissions
- iong term credit                         64,650             83,994           116,157
- medium term credit                       45,065             63,231            94,895
- short term credit                        17,402             17,174            18,927
Total interests and commissions            127,117           164,399           229,979
Interest on current accounts                   33,471            40,849            46,563
Rentals                                        13,985            13,934            13,956
Miscellaneous Income                            4,064             7,038             9,130
Total Gross Income                         178,637           226,220           299,628
Expenses
Administrative expenses
- staff salaries                           41,598             52,479            63,483
- maintenance and repairs                  16,678             19,699            21,978
- transport                                 2,623              2,525             3,329
- office running expenses                  10,732             12,625            17,898
Total Administrative Expenses,              71,631            87,328           106,688
Financial charges                              50,797            76,221           111,049
Total Expenses                             122,428           163,549           217,737
Profit Before Provisions                          56,209            62,671            81,891
Provisions
provisions of the year  1/                 109,379            75,764           105,897
less write off of prior debts
provision8,-                               (94,760)          (34,307)          (38,591)
Total provisions                            14,619            41,457            67,306
Profit Before Depreciation                        41,590            21,214            14,585
Depreciation                                   13,423            1,6                  3
Total Net Income                                  28,167             8,848             14110
l/ Includesprovisions for bad debts, debts under litigation and general risk.
-Tèbruary 27, 1975



Tabze 2
UPPER VOLTA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banque Nationale de Develorpement
Balance Sheets
(CFAFt000 )
at September 30                                                 1971                  1972                1973
Assets
Fixed assets
gross value                                              170,641              181,705             191,613
(less depreciation)                                     (100,262)            (109,567)            120,409
net value                                                 70,379               72,138              71,204
land                                                       1,012                1.012                2,095
Total Fixed Assets                                        71,391               73,150              73,299
Investments                                                  74,069               75,118               65,676
Credit outstanding
long term                                              1,233,275            1,771,066           2,385,861
medium term                                              625,117              997,620           1,552,801
short term                                               352,598              521,539             389,557
bad debts                                                 97,318              131,490             234,622
Total Credit Outstanding                               2,308,308            3,421,715           4,562,841
Regularization accounts                                      18,405                22,016              36,730
Other                                                       541,789              561,041              679,155
Bank and cash                                               238,835              113,557              381,163
Total Assets                                              3,252,797            4,266,597            5,798,864
Liabilities
Equity
share capital                                            355,000              355,000             355,000
reserves                                                  14,000               45,363              50,842
earned surplus                                            29,082                9,930               2,199
grants and guarantee funds                               282,110              282.994             275,685
Total equity                                         680,192               693,287             683,726
Provisions
for big repairs and general risks                        156,665              188,592             189,809
for bad debts and debts in litigation                     80,244              107,582             191,135
Total Provisions                                     236,909               296,174             380,944
Long Term Liabilities
to CCCE                                                  755,816              955,270           1,602,821
to Government                                             21,000              241,160             330,901
to African Development Bank                                 -                  90,284             210,751
Total Long-Term Liabilities                           776,816            1,286,714           2,144,473
Medium Term Liabilities
to CCCE                                                  217,495              273,171             217,061
to Government                                                                                       9,051
to BCEAO                                                  61,459                8,479              77.286
Total Medium Term Liabilities                         278,954     '        281,650             303,398
Short Term Liabilities
guarantee deposits                                        23,433               20,761              21,704
customers current accounts                               373,943              478,203             964,381
customer blocked accounts                                 87,781              242,253             204,247
other                                                      2,431               49,341              97,672
Total Short Term Liabilities                         487,588               790,558           1,288,004
Regularisation Accounts                                      49,619               63,209               24,381
Other                                                       742,719              855.005              973,938
Total Liabilities                                         3,252,797            4,266,597           5,798.864
February 12, 1975



ANNEX 6
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Group Ranch Development
A. General
1.        The subproject area of about 300,000 ha is bounded in the east by
the Black Volta and its tributary, the Pendia; and in the west by the Mali
border (see map). Sligbtly undulated terrain at the center forms a watershed
separating the catchment area of the Niger in the northwest from that of the
Black Volta in the southeast.
2.        The soil map (1:  500,000), prepared by ORSTOM, shows that the
higher parts of the area have hydromorphic tropical ferruginous soils on
sandy-clayey materials, the hilltops consisting of ironstone caps with
lateritic hardpan on the surface. These soils are leached and have poor phys-
ical characteristics but are suitable for most crops. The natural vegetation
is of the Savannah type, consisting of scattered shea-trees, Parkia biglobosa
and Daniella oliveri, with Andropogon gayanus and Hyparrhenia sp. as the main
grasses. There are many depressions alongside the major rivers which consist
of hydromorphic soîls on alluvial material and often of clayey texture; they
are suitable for crops that can withstand flooding. A detailed map of the
Foulasso-Lelasso plain has been prepared by ORSTOM; of the 8,900 ha surveyed,
5,660 ha (64%) are classified as good and very good agricultural soils and
3,240 ha (36%) as mediocre soils for cropping. The herbaceous vegetation
includes Hyparrhenia rufa, Echinochloa stagnina, and Vetiveria. In total,
about 50% of the land can be regarded as suitable for crop production.
3.        The area has about 1,100 mm average annual rainfall.
4.        The population of about 20,000 is distributed in some 30 villages,
the most important of which are Samorogouan in the center (1,500 inhabitants),
Sindou in the northwest (2,200 inhabitants) and Serekeni in the south (1,200
inhabitants). About 84% of the people are subsistence croppers of various
tribal origins. Sedentarized Peulh, who settled in the area about 15 years
ago and practice limited transhumance within a 35 km radius, form the remain-
ing 16% of the population.
5.        Away from the main communication system the region has remained
underdeveloped. Up to the present there has been some immigration of
pastoralist Peulh from the north, and some emigration to the cities and the



ANNEX 6
Page 2
neighboring countries to the south. The road system of about 200 km second-
ary roads and earth tracks is in poor condition. It is envisaged that the
improvement of about 100 km of the N'Dorola - Kourouma-Orodara road will be
part of the rural roads project which has been appraised in December 1974.
6.        Social sérvices in the area are poor.  There are three dispensaries
(Djigouera, Samorogouan, Sindou), which are only partly functional due to
lack of stocks. Malaria is the most serious disease occurring in the area.
Two primary schools (Samorogouan, Sindou) provide educational facilities for
270 children; but only 11% of the school-age children go to school, often
outside the project area. Four poorly equipped and badly functioning rural
education centers (Sindou, Sana, Sikorola, Serekeni) for 12-15-year-old boys
have limited success. Of a total of 150 school beginners, only 95 were still
attending classes at the time of the mission's visit (October/November 1974).
7.        Farming Systems.  Crop farmers in the area cultivate 4 ha per family.
Aggregately the total is 6,800 ha, or 2.5% of the project area. About three-
fourths of the cultivated land is used to grow food grains (sorghum, millet,
maize) and the remainder to grow cotton, groundnuts and sesame. Some Peulh
families cultivate 1 - 2 ha of land for subsistence purposes.
8.        The livestock population of the project area consists of about
23,000 cattle and 8,000 sheep and goats.  Cattle are of the zebu type, indi-
cating that trypanosomiasis, although present in the area, is not a serious
problem. About 90% of the cattle are herded by Peulh pastoralists, who are
estimated to own over three quarters of the herds and who receive a subsist-
ence salary for herding cattle entrusted to them by crop farmers. Crop far-
mers manage about 10% of the cattle population themselves. It is thus esti-
mated that the average Peulh family owns about 50 head of cattle and 18 sheep
and goats.  About four-fifths of the crop farming families also own livestock,
averaging five head of cattle and two sheep and goats. Herd production is
typically low. Breeding herds have a calving rate of about 60%, but about
35% of the calves die before weaning. Weaning rates are, therefore, as low
as 39%. About 150 kg of milk are extracted for human consumption per cow per
lactation. About four-fifths is consumed at home, and one-fifth sold to crop
farmers in the neighboring villages.  Herd offtake is about 11%, mainly as
mature steers or bulls (35%), immature steers (25%), and cull cows (40%).
Natural herd growth has been estimated at 2% in normal years.
9.        The value of annual output net of cost per family is about US$1,020
for the Peulh, US$400 for crop farmers owning livestock and US$357 for crop
farmers without livestock. As part of the output is needed for subsistence
(23% for Peulh, 68% for crop farmers owning livestock 76% for crop farmers
without livestock), fanily cash incomes are only about US$785 per Peulh, US$130
for livestock-owning crop farmers and US$87 for crop farmers without livestock,
equivalent to per caput cash incomes of US$79, US$13 and US$9, respectively.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
B. Group Ranch Development
Land Use
10.       Ranching must be regarded as a residual form of land use under the
ecoclimatical conditions of the project area (Annex 1). However, the present
capacity of the local population to increase the cultivated area quickly is
limited. Even if improved smallholder cultivation methods were introduced
and a 2% population growth were taken into account, the area required for
cultivation in the project area would be no more than 20,000 ha in 20 years.
At that time, including the fallow period required for shifting cultivation,
only about 30% of the land (90,000 ha) would be part of the crop production
system, and 70% (210,000 ha) plus the fallow land (70,000 ha) could be used
by grazing animals. A population of Peulh pastoralists, experienced in live-
stock production, has settled in the area. Therefore, it appears rational
to utilize the land for ranching development until land pressure builds up
and part of the land has to be brought into crop production. Looking further
into the future the incremental area required for cultivation appears adequate
for at least 50 years.
Land Tenure
il.       Land is officially owned by the government; farmers and pastoralists
have only the rights of usufruct. However, the crop farmers of the area re-
gard themselves as the traditional owners of the land, and the chef de terre,
elected by the villagers, plays an important role in allocating land to crop
farmers for temporary use. Livestock producers also accept the traditional
authority. In order to bring about modern livestock development, without dis-
turbing the symbiotic relationship between the Peulh and crop farmers, a new
form of organization and land use right would be introduced. Government
has declared the 300,000 ha subproject area a special development area by
decree and would give long term (50 year) leases to groups of pastoralists
and farmers for land which is not considered necessary for crop production
in the foreseeable future. The formation of nine group ranches of 15,000 ha
each would be envisaged. Governnent would prepare and ratify a group ranch
statute, in which the legal status of group ranches including the rights and
obligations of its members would be defined.
Membership
12.       Based on a soil survey of the area and a detailed socioeconomic
study, a locational plan would be prepared by the-Group Ranch Development
Center for the tentative location of each group ranch and its membership.
This could be discussed with a local steering committee of no more than ten
members comprising leaders of the Peulh (chefs de campement) and crop farm-
ing communities, local Administration Officials and the Group Ranch Develop-
ment Center manager.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
13.       Each group would consist of about 37 Peulh and 150 livestock-owning
crop farming families, and the lease would be extended to the group represented
by a five-member group ranch committee. The committee would be elected by
its members. It would mainly have Peulh members, but it would be compulsory
that livestock-owning crop farmers would also be represented. The committee
would sign loan applications and be responsible to their members for adequate
livestock management and for the preparation of an annual group ranch budget.
A group ranch manager and an assistant manager would be employed by the
Group Ranch Center, after consultation with the Group Ranch Committee.
Cattle Management
14.       Existing cattle would continue to be owned by individuals, but only
lactating cows and their calves which are needed for subsistence milk produc-
tion would be left under individual management. All the other cattle - mainly
steers - would be marked and transferred to collective management by the
group ranch. Feeder steers would be purchased by the group and not be trans-
ferred to private ownership. Overhead costs would be shared on a per-animal-
unit basis. Profits on individually owned livestock would be passed on to
the owners, while the profits on purchased feeder steers would be shared on
an equal basis by all group ranch members.
Grazing Rights
15.       The problem of individual grazing rights will not arise until PY 9
because of present understocking and the increased carrying capacity expected
from the project (Annex 7 Table 1). Nevertheless, it is necessary to define
grazing rights at an early stage, in order to avoid later conflict. Two-
fifths of the grazing capacity (2,000 A.U.) would be permanently reserved for
group-owned cattle, which are assumed to be feeder steers. The remaining
three-fifths (3,000 A.U.) would be allocated to founder members of the group
ranch in quotas proportionate to their herd size.
Technical Development
16.       Over a three-year investment period, ranch infrastructure--including
ranch roads, firebreaks, watering facilities, handling yards, dips, staff
houses and improved pastures (4% of the area) - would be developed in order
to manage 5,000 A.U. with adequate standards of modern animal husbandry
(Annex 7 Table 2). 500 feeder steers would be bought in PY 1 for a 20 month
grass fattening period, and 1,000 feeder steers in PY 2 and'thereafter in
order to increase the utilization of the pasture resource. This would in-
crease sales substantially from PY 2. The breeding herd would reach its
final level (1,290 females) in PY 9.  Full benefits would not be reached until
PY 14.
Phasing
17.       The target would be to commence development on three ranches in
each of the first three project years.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
Income
18.       At full development Peulh families would increase their income
to US$2,505 and livestock-owning crop farming families to US$924 per year,
increasing the family incomes by US$1,485 and US$524, respectively, as
compared to the pre-project situation. Disposable incomes would, therefore,
rise considerably.
C. Group Ranch Development Center
19.       A center would be developed near Samorogouan in the group ranch
development area, to give technical support to the group ranches and train
work oxen for crop farmers. Technical support would consist of (a) second-
ment and in-service training of group ranch managers and assistant managers;
(b) preparation of group ranch development plans, budgets and loan applica-
tions; (c) ranch management extension; (d) the production of pasture seeds;
(e) the supply of ranch inputs (e.g. fuel); (f) servicing of ranch machinery;
and (g) procurement of feeder steers. The center would supply 4.8 t of
stylosanthes seed seed and 171 pairs of work oxen annually from PY 3.
20.       During the five-year investment phase, it is expected that an ex-
patriate ranch development specialist would be recruited to head the center.
He would have a Voltaic counterpart with veterinary assistant level training.
The operating costs of the center would be paid by the beneficiaries.
D. Community Development and Smallholder Extension
21.       A community development specialist would be attached to the project,
in order to focus on necessary social services for the success of the project.
This would include primary and adult education, medical services, water sup-
plies, village warehouses and communal centers. Funds required for these
essential support services to the ranching project would be made available
from other projects or from self-help initiatives.
22.       Development of the livestock sector would generate additional income
only for the livestock-owning segment of the people living in the subproject
area and would leave out the other segments. In order to avoid imbalances,
the crop extension service would be strengthened by an extension specialist of
the ORD assisted by nine extension officers who would:  (a) organize a minimum
package program for crop farmers, (b) propagate the use of work oxen, and
(c) organize settled farming similar to the Matourkou scheme. Funds required
would be expected to come forward from existing projects or from the forth-
coming Rural Development Fund Project to be appraised in 1975.
March 20, 1975



MINES 7
Table I
LIVESTOC% OEVtlfPs{ENT PR0.ECT.
Mode1 Crop Rsef/Oaity Ranh - 15,000 ha
_______               -Mai' ~~~~~evelopatftt~~1       2        3                  s        6         7        8        9        10       il       12        13      14-20
8ERD C3MKP0SITS<1N
Puls  lve ~   3 yaas)........ No.               11t)      110        75       42       43        4.4      46       49        50       52        52       52       52       52        52
Pceedtsg Cu...Sa..........'.  1,100                     1,100    1.070   1,062   1,066   1,098   1.140    1,220   1.283    1,290   1,290   1,290   1,290   1,290    1,290
Calons ue-od .......          a....N.    429              440      495       535      616      618       637      664      708       744      748       748      748      748      748
Neife-s  I   2 yeacs..... ..   No.              202       202       209      238      260       290      300      309       322      Ski.     361       363      363      363      363
Hnifers 2- 3 years........   No.                190       190       192      201      231      252       290      291       300      312      334       350      352      352      302
Maies 1* - 2 years      ........   No.          201       201       209      237      259       299      300      309       322      343      361       363      363      063       363
Maies 2- 3 yec..     ........No.    149                   189       191      201      230       201      290      291       300      312       333      300      352      302       352
Steers 3 -4 ver.No .........                     97       117       180      183      185       212      232      269       270      278      291       311      328      330      330
Stee-s4 -    yeac.........   No.                 63        63        -        -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -        -        -         -
Steers S   6 yas.-.........No.                   43        28            -         - -           -        -                  -        -        -         -        -        -         -
Total Breding Herd........Ni.  2,579                    2,640    2,621   2,699   2,890    3 073   3,240   3,402   3,056   3,670    3,770   3,827   3,848   3,850   3 850
Pender steers ...........No. - ---                        470       905(     960  '17         ='7       "7       "7      ="07    "            970       970      970     "7 "'07
Astral usit~  4.0..). fi ......       .No.  2 579       3 110   3 571   3 859    3 862   4 043   4 210   4 372   4 ,526   4 ~645   4 740   4 797   4 8I8   4 821   4 820
PURC HASES
Bceediig bobls t2  ........             -o                            2        2       -         -        -        -         -        -        -         -        -        -         -
Nrneditg   fe_ales t2  ...             No         -         -        10       10        -        -        -         -                 -         -        -        -        -         -
Fender  steervt   ....                 No.                500   1.00 1O  W   1  0.00 1.0    L2         19 O     .,.&0   1.00 100  1  0.0 1000 .2    LIO    L2O 00      ,  QO    18000
Total Porchases        ......... No.              -       500   1,012    L112   1,000        111          I  1,00 100 100  1,000    1.000   1I 1.00    1,003     1,000    100    1000
MDOqTALITY                 /4
Pulls  'oe  3  ec)-No0                                                                   I8      39        I4  2                                 2        2  
Ornediisg cost.No.......S.                       77        77        60       50        38       3        40       43        45       47       48        48       48       48       4
H e.frs I    2 year. ........N.                  13        13        i1       10        8         9        9         9       10       10        il       il       il       il        1l
Onifers 7 - 3 yoacs . .      No~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S.  12  12  10  8    7        8        9         9        9       10       10        I         l       I  
Mailes 1 - 2 yeor            .         No        13        13        1l       10         8        9        9        10       10       il        il       il       il        il       il
Mai, es2 -3 YeacsNo.                             12        12        10        8         7        a        9         9        9       10       10        il       il        il      Il
îteer3"4 y..e        ..rs   ......      No.       7         7         9        8        6         7        7         8        8        9         9       10       10       Io        10
Oteers 4-        years.No.                        6         6         6        7         5        6        6         7        8        8         8        9        9        10       10
Steers S - i strs.No.                             4          4        3       -        -         -                  -        .        .         .        .        -         -        -
Steer-  o-e  6 ygrs           .         o.        3          3        I       -        -                  -         -        -        .        -         -        -        -         -
Fead-r ste-r   .No...                             -        30        714      78       59        59       59        59       59       59        59       59       59        59       59
Total Mactaîiry.......... No.                   104       184       206      182      139       14L6     149      150       1.59     166      168       072      032      173       173
SALES
C.u1 bvls-1...........          .      No.       18        18        31       32        8         9        9         9       10       10        10       10       10       10        10
Cuti oua       ..is   .:..      .      No.:  .  113       113       165      160      159       160      165      172       183      192      194       194      194      194      194
Surplus h.lfera  6-           .. .     Na.        -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -                  4       70        92      108   ~1io         110
Maies 2- 3  ..s   ........       .      No.      40        -         -                  -        -        -         -        -        -         .        -        -        -         -
Sneers 3-4 y..ea         ....s.. .     No.       25        -         -        -        -                  -         -        -        -         .        -        -        -
Steero 4 -5 y.oa         ....s.. .     No.       23        23       il,      173      178       179      206      225       261      2,62     270       282      302      318       320
isera 5 - 4. .y         ..ar .... .    No.       16        31        60       -        .         -        -        -         -        -        -                  -        -         -
Steero avec 6 y-ears       ..... .     No.       40        40        27       -        -         -        -        -         -                  -        -        .        -         -
Total Salest icIorosdiog Perd    No.            275       225       394      365      345       348      380      406       404      518      544       078      614      632      634
Tender  tsars............No.                      -        -        446      912      931       941      941    __à         941      941      941       941      941      941       941
Total  Sales............No.                     275        225      846  1L27    1.276    1.289   1J321   1.24            1.3952   1.5    1485   1.519.  1.5    1J,5fl   1.575
TECONICAL COEPFTCIES0
Cebve ..aa...ed f0 ..t......                     39        40        40       50       58        58       58        58       58       58        58       58       50        58       58
Adu1t cota.lity .t........                        8          6        O        4         3        3        3         3        3         3        3        3         3        3 
Cot  co11iag rote  . .......                     10.3      10.3    15         15       15        10       15       15        15       15        15       15       10       15        10
Pull cullssg rote  ........                      16        16        28       43        20       20       20       20        20       20        20       20       20        20       20
Offtake bales 2 -3 y-at. 7....                   20        -         -        -         -        -        -         -        -        -         -        -        -         - 
Offtake steer  3   4 ynars.      t...            20        -         .        -        -         -        -         -        -        -         -        -        -         -        -
Offttakest..r. 4 -    years..      t..           25        25       100      100      100       100      100      100       100      100      100       100      100      100      100
Ofitoke ateoce O -6 yars .             7...      25        50       100       -        -         -        -         -        -        -                  -        -         -        -
Offtolceatesr   avec_6 _ yt      ..r ..         100       100       100                -         -        -                  -        -         -        -        -        -
Pu ll/cas  r.ti~ ....                            10        10         7        4         4        4        4         4        4        4         4        4        4         4        4
Cwo jr hard -7                                   42.4      41.7    40.        39,3    36.9       35.7     35.3      3359     36.1     35.1      34.2     33.7     33.5    33.5    33.3
Otftke rte ta.7.........                        10.7        8.5     13.0    13.5       i1l      11.3     11         l 119    12.8    14.1      14.4     15.1      16.0    16.4    16.5
Staokicg rate, ha pee A.0.....                    7.0        5.6      4.3      3.7       3.6      3.4      3.3       3.2      3.2      3.1       3.0      3.0      3.0O      3.0      3.0
Stoalkivg  apa_i ty. ha per A.0...                7.0       3.5       4.0      3.5       3.5      3.0      3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0      3.0       3.0      3.0      3,0
1.1 1Aoisal unit (A.U1.): Esujivaet to ..y c.atle 00-  1 yoac; fonder  tisn  la second y-a  are fully caoated ns aimaiantis, sîthogh thoy hav  bacs soId by esd ai ycsr.
2   Anaak  Oam sathiaUpper Vo lte  or trou Nipe..
fl,~,   aroboo  dons8dry oasas (Jaouary - Nord) and sale ait-  second ciny cessa  (Oniober ta Inenéeer).
j Rcplacod fron maies 2 - 3 yec.re
/7    Inlod ig losse   for avec 3 ynar-ald helf-r  aalv~ing ducing th. year.
Ij   T  be sold for breed ing.
E-cludiog feedersosa  fro  herd.
8 Lasses  -a1nulted toc ta yea-s fac n-h batch ai feeder ntern   soid befure   d of second 7ycr.
01gh bull culliog rate thsraughout tbe praject be-aue ai opgradîag ta A-a,k.
/0 Caloing ra tes  facan         rou 607. la year 1 te 4,57  in yesr 4.
Pobro-y 12. 1975



D~~~~~                                                           n D' -                               m             9a2«n39«9 oe«X» n e@X[v«mrr< WmUvn   n  n  n   0.r  n         m vsWC2=%M
|  5  o  3   X  D  4  D  g   V   9  0   D-inno  m ' i o   tzn . i <   mZ.ZyZnZl.-ln   0 z.0 . 0  Vi ~   r>o   .- -   , - n m Vm  -n0    9 F o -o  B  on  n -o o oIr
DnCC0nO                                                                nD  nron.nnoi-                      Dn   Ôn  nn                                -A°4DD   
D~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~8m io  .mnn-n   nm- DOn E0.    or                                                                  ,rnc.   O     
D. ni   t                 n O  mn-ii   O    g  W i-w Dna    WN.n 8Om                    n    o       .i        n ô      ô. om  -ôon  ni o      o-n  o c_go_ôpoooo@l          
4~~~~~~~~~~ ~                               :v °%n                n½no r" aC M: -            
c   ° °                    o ni i  8n ciai                       N                                                         .n na
Q~~~    n        R         8  n o
nnNn1 nOW0t                         no                                      
nw0                            o r0~  in-    tm 
g4oi0~                             in  O                                                              .
o~~~~~0M                                      -



UPPER VOLTA
LIVESTOCK DEVEIDPMENT PROJECT
Model - GrouP Beef/Dairv Ranch - 15,000 ha
Sales and Value of Subsistence Production -/
(CFAF '000)
Before                         ----                                              ---  Year-----------
Development        1         2         3         4          5         6         7         8          9         10        il         12        13      14-20
CATTIE & MILK SALES
Cull bulls .....................    756                  756      1,339    1,421        416       480       491       503        572       585       585        585       585       585        585
Cull cows .2,260                                       2,260      3,432    3,680   3,784    3,952    4,455    4,799    5,270    5,702    5,936    5,936    5,936    5,936    5,936
Surplus heifers .-                                       -          -         -         -         -         -         -          -       2,052    2,660    3,496    4,104    4,180    4,180
Males 2-3 years .920                                                                               -         -              -         -          -         - -  -  -      -          -         -
Steers 3-4 years .770                                    -          -         -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -          -         -         -          -
Steers 4-5 years .835                                    835      4,151    7,266    7,690    7,948    9,394   10,530   13,572   13,965   14,391   15,031   16,097   16,949   17,056
Steers 5-6 years .691                                  1,339      2,664       -         -         -         -          -         -         -          -         -         -         -          -
Steers over 6 years ....... ....... 1,728              1.728      1.199       -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -          -         -          -         -
Cattle Sales from Breeding herd    7.960               6.918    12.785   12.367   11.890   12,380   14.340   15,832   19.414   22.304   23,572   25.048   26.722   27,650   27,757
Feeder Steers ...................    -                   -       16.457   34.109   35.378   39.522   40.087   40.651   40.651   40,651   40,651   40.651   40.651   40.651   40.651
Total Cattle Sales .      ....  7,960        6.918    29,242   46.476   47.268   51.902   54,427   56.483   60.065   62.955   64.223   65.699   67.373   68.301   68.408
MilkL3 ..................    500               460         697     1.267    1.845    2.422    2.949    3.642    3.903    3.890    3.842    3.793    3.743    3.693    3.641
TOTAL CATTLE & MILK SALES 8.460              7.378    29.939   47,743   49.113   54.324   57.376   60,125   63.968    66.845   68.065   69.492   71.116   71.994   72.049
VALUE OF MILK CONSUMPTIOML ........  2,008                2,048      2,089    2,131    2,174    2,217    2,261    2,306    2,352    2,399              2,447    2,496      2,546    2,596    2,648
TOTAL VALUE FROM CATTLE HERD.. 10.468               9.426    32,028   49.874   51.287   56.541   59.637   62.431   66.320   69.244   70.512   71.988   73.662   74.590   74.697
/L  numbers from           Table 1, liveweights,yields and prices from                  Table 4;
2 Increasing by 2%/year due to population growth, subsistence value CFAF 25/1 milk.
/ Residual available for sale.
February 27, 1975
F-| 



UPP'ER VOLTA
LIVESTOCK< DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model - Group Beef/Dairy Ranch - 15.Ô00 ixa
Assumed Liveweiahts, Milk Yields and Prices
Re o e        -- - - - -- - - --o- - -- - - - -- - - -- - - - ----- ------- - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - --ar- - -- - - -
Devalopuentl1             2           3          4           5          6           7          8           9          10         il          12          13       14-20
Liveneizhtet .tkg)
Ruilas.... 350                                            350        360         370        400         410        420         430        440         450         450        450         450         450         450
Breedi ngc wsL                 .......250                 250        260         270        280         290        300         310        320         330         340         340        340         34034
Calves weaned...............120                           120        130         140        150         150        150         150        150         150         150        150         150         150         150
Haeifer  i - 2 yeara ...........160                       160        170        180         185         190        190         190        190         190         190        190         190         190         190
Heifers 2 - 3 years ...........210                        210        220         230        240         245        250         250        250         250         250        250         250         250         250
Haifera 3 - 4 yearsa...........250                        250        260        270         280         290        300         305        310         310         310        310         310         310         310
Maies 1 - 2 year .............180                         180        190         200        210         215        215         215         215        215         215         215        215         215         215
Maies 2 - 3 years ............230                         230        240         250        260         270        280         280        280         280         280         280        280         280         280
Stèers 3 - 4 yeara ...........280                         280        290        300         310         320        330         340        345         345         345        345         345         345         345
Steers 4 - S years ...........330                         330        340        350         360         370        380         390        400         410        410         410         410         410        410
Steers S - 6 years............360                        360         370          -          -           -           -          -          -           -           -           -          ---
Steers over 6 years ...... ....360                        360        370                     -           -           -          -           -          -           -           -          -           -
Feeder steers at purchase ........                        230        230         230        230         230        230         230        230         230         230        230         230         230         230
Feeder steers at sale ..........-                          -         335         340        345         350        355         360        360         360         360        360         360         360         360
Caulle Pr.s(00CAFprha)/-                        42.0        42.0       43.2        44.4        52.0       53.3        54.6       55.9        57.2       58.,5       58.5        58.5       58.5        58.5        58.5
"reIls geo.... li .........20.0                            20.0       20.8        23.0       23.8        24.7        27.0       27.9        28.8~   29.7           30.6        30.6       30.6        30.6        30.6
Calves veaned ..............9.6                             9.6       10.4        11.2       12.0        12.0       12.0        12.0       12.0        12.0        12.0       12.0        12.0        12.0        12.0
He iera 1 -2pearsa...........12.8                          12.8       13.6        14.4       14.8        15.2        15.2       15.2        15.2       15.2        15.2        15.2       15.2        15.2        15.2
Raifera 2 -3 years ...........18.9                         18.9       22.0        23.0       24.0        24.5       27.5        27.5        27.5       27.5        27.5        27.5       27.5        27.5        27.5
al fers 3 -4 yeara ...........27.5                        27.5       28.6        29.7       30.8        31.9        33.0       33.6        34.1       34.1        34.1        34.1       34.1        34.1        34.1
Malas 1 - 2 years ............14.4                         14.4       15.2        18.0       18.9        19.4        19.4       19.4        19.4       19.4        19.4        19.4       19.4        19.4        19.4
Hales 2 - 3 yearte............23.0                         23.0       24.0        27.5       28.6        29.7       30.8        30.8        30.8       30.8        30.8        30.8       30.8        30.8        30.8
Steers 3 -4 yeara............30.8                          30.8      .31.9        33.0       34.1        35.2        36.3       37.4        38.0       38.0        38.0        38.0       38.0        38.0        38.0
Steere 4 -5 pesar............36.3                          36.3       37.4        42.0       43.2        44.4       45.6        46.8       52.0        53.3        53.3       53.3        53.3        53.3        53.3
Steera 5 -6 peane............43.2                          43.2       44.4        -          -           -          -           -          -           -           -           -          -           -           -.
steera over 6 peara  .   .........43.2                     43.2       44.4        -          -           -           -          -          -           -           -          -           -           -           -
Feedar steers at purchase .-..  :....                      23.0       23.0        23.0       23.0        23.0        23.0       23.0       23.0        23.0        23.0        23.0       23.0        23.0        23.0
Feeder steers et Ral . .....   ...                         -          36.9        37.4       38.0        42.0       42.6        43.2       43.2        43.2        43.2       43.2        43.2        43.2        43.2
Milk Yield (kg par lactation)........150                    150         170        200         230        260         280        300         300         300        300         300        300         300         300
Mil1k Prica (CEA? per kg) ..........25                       25          25         25         .25          25         25          25         25          25         25          25          25          25         25
Milk Valua (CFA? pet lactation) .....3,750                3,750      4,250       5,000      5,750       6,500      7,000       7,500      7,500       7,500       7,500       7,500      7,500       7,500       7,500
Heard Value ('000 CEA?) /l:Before Development: 50215..             Test 14-20: 129,220
fr1 Cull cowa weights and values.
2  Assumiptions oni fatrîgate prices pet kg LW:  under 200 kg LW  80 CFAF             ?Cu           ll  cons:  under 270 kg LW  80 CFAF
200 - 219 kg LW  90 Cl?AF                                 270 - 299 kg LW  85 CFA?
220 - 249 kg LW 100 CFA?                                  over  300 kg LW  90 CFAF
250 - 349 kg LW 110 CFA?
350 - 399 kg LW 120 CFA?
over 400 kg .LW 130 CFA?
Fabruary 12, 1.975



LTfER VOLTA                                                                            ANNEX 7
Table 5
LIVEISTOCF DOVELOPHEN'T PROJECI
M.,d.1 Crou   Beef - DaIis' Ranh   _j5. 000 ha
Operatlog Coat.
t'OO3 CFAP)
Unit      Befor--         - - -  - - -- -  --O--      - -- - - - -  - -  - - -- - -      - -  - - - -- -  - - -  - - - --  - - - -  - - - -
Coot   DeveIlconet    I          2                   4                   6        __         8         O        10)       il        12 20
Itacager  Y                    ~~~~~~~~800                                                             Boa       80        800       800       800       800       800
z8miotant      d~eigo ~400                         -400                                                                    400       400       400       400       400       400
SkiOlld Iaboter  ...    ......            200       -          600        600       600       600       600       6100      600       600       600       600       600       600
Hnrdo~t- OL..             _  _      "     120    2,640       3,240    4,200    4.800    5,040    5,280    5 400    5,520    5,760    5,760    5,880    6,000    6,000
Unsktlîed Icborer 3/ ........             520    ---           4830    1.920    1.920    1.920         -2 1.920 1,,         922     1.920    6.920    1.920    1.920    1.920
S.b-1ti.t__.............                        260_            2    6,72      7,320    7.560    7,300       9.120    9. 24      9 40           40      600 9~2   720    9.720
Mantnnc       Civil Wcrks
OuIîdng   !.5/                                 -         -          296       296       296       296       296       296       296       296       296       296       296
F5,tlg    tek hadivfatîlîttea*.                -                    301       406       512       512       512       512       512       512       512       512       512
Wst~~~rtcg iccîlitlco 16..-                  ~~~~~~~~~163        694       694       694       694       694       694       694       694       694       694
Ont-tota1........760                                                           1.9          0                1.502                1 L,   502    1.502    1      .502    1502 I0
Vehicles & Ecn(pne.ct Roc7.ng Costa
4-.,heol dt1i-  -hijIc1e2.....                                 404        404       404       404      404        404       404       404       404       404       404       404
Tract-r         ......... .....5                                          288       784    1,283    1.283    1,283    1,283    1.283    1,283    1,283    1,283    1,283
.. .....ev I                                           114       114       114       114       114       114       114       114       114       114       114       114
EqoOp_teef1-                                                   636        841       841       841       841       841       841       841       841       841       841       841
Vthi.l. replet,c,t!., ..........870                                                 870       870       870       870       870       870       870       830       870       870
Sot-total. ...........-                                    12129    2,514      3,013       M 512   3512    3.512  ~3512    3j.,1    3.512    3.512    3,512    3,1
lcerai.  & Amnoctc
Laced réntr -attle  1,2                              125        450       450       450      450       450        450       450       450       450       450       450       45W
Office facilities ',l                                -          300       40   00        500       500       500       500       500       500       500       500       500so
Deavlopsent Centre  e                                         *..       2218      2218    2218B    2218    1987           1987    1983        1987      1987    1987    1 987
e~ ia-     Tc~C     t                                   10        32        46        85       310       513       547      583        587       589       590       590       590
Trvcacoc?mlcciu i~~~~cotactloo ~50               435        500       51 2      540       566       5189      612       64        8960      664       672       675
Dicpc  .4............-                                         267        352       404      418       437        451       465       476       484       493       499       500
MinoraIt                              ~     ~    ~~~~       ~~~~      ~~- 400  528  605  626  655    677       697       714       726       740       748       750
mi ...   ceecn-8                                     100        131.      176       202       209       218       226       232       238       242       247       250       2.50
Sct-tota.16............0                                     -                     70    T-          =36     Y5        2.535    2.6-10       =6-      ,,18    ..4,9    ...58.
f Fnhccn       Steernd .r ....-r....    23       -       1150 2,0             300 200 2~0                   300 2-0             30D 2,0             300 2,0             .29,0
bo1..flcacaLln~~~~.........                   2.933   19 067   37,64   39 705   41 045   41 371   42 561   4270 43 080    312                    43.285   43,430    3436
Y   ]urig fi-ct fie y-ar  suplied by group Banch Deelopmacnt Center * aaà.a es Ineioded in daeveopunt eonter fa.,
i ..rtlnca  per 100 ànimal Olnits, increasing frma 22 beore demelopmet te 50 hsrsaa  in year U1, partly' paid in kinds i4a f amilias x 5 kg
ailk/rloy c 365 da-ys x 25 CPUF - 2,008 million 011.0, grvwing at 2 n/c per ysar (see Tabla 3)j partly' peld In cash lncreasinLg trou
632,900 CFIA' tefore developmant to 3,992 million CMAO in Tear U and thersatter.
3      unkiil_od labomrer  ie Pc.ject Ysu-r 1, 16 in Project Tsar 2 and fol.lgwing Tsars; sein    paqp attendants.
2.5 c/o cf -cn,tractien cost cosmezcing ones yer atter construction.
10 c/c cf cocrcincnt comnencing men  Yner sitar const-ution.
~/5 c/e cf couatruction test coumencing cne 7ar sitar construction.
20 /c et purcha.. pries, 12,000 km par yemr.
J   0140 750 per tracter hour, sxclusding pusture deve3olopnt conta; pasture maintenances J. rotor slauhing/3'sar (1.5 hr./ba>; firsbreak
'sai.t.cace, 2 harrowings/gradings  3 br/hs/yr; 200 hr. ganerai voct f rom Tsar 2.
9/  100 c/  c  purchase pric5c 15,000 km par Tesar.
1`5  20 e/e  it nv.tment cost cosencing ysar cf purchses.
Tracter ecry, firs Years, 4 uhoel drive vehiels avery' 8 years, atotrtyclss, svary three ysars.
B/Osere davelopaset, catlle tax cf 200 CIAF/haad ov-r 2 Ts"ar mga; 25 o/n 0f toala animal. pal thea lz,4 accOlding t0 stelatictae on lex col-
lectien, after derelopmsnt, cattle a l ausumd te b. rapacesd b1' lmn rents 0711 30 par ha, aquivelsat ta lthe anmoot of leax pqalbla
laners de~elopsent, if lamas vmar paid for ail cattll.
~3   olacluing insurances, stationsr1', postage, etc.
ncdig(as) mangemenzt fans for 1h. firet fi"s Tsar  (sW.plymnt of Oroup Ranch Managar and Assistant Manengar), firat year absorbed
i. oparating  nOets of Grcop Ranch Dflemsi       t esl   tesr.
(b) 119 of lthe --ne2 daficit of tise Rancis Derelopm.nl Cente, parment cemening projeet Tsar 2t sae Tabla 8.
(c) from PraJsctleTsa 6, additional. ClPA 969,000 par ysar, repreaenling 3/9 of repaymanta made bj' dsvelopmsnt centre
for tise evestuenl ban.
Inoludes vaccinsl Costa and rsterina,y service charge.  Compare Table il.
W, Tu-c prophylia.tic vaccinations during lhe veat Season 011.1 70 par dose; pasaiblY only3 curative t.reatinéat acestarl et 1/3 coat.
~7/Once .rery lu-o  ekss during r&mis  seamon; ocme a month during dc7 emason at CAP1 5 par dipp3ng; 20 lias. a Tsar excl,ding calme..
e    30 CPUF par kg bons mali/salt mix at 5 kg/A.U./3'aa  * 150 CYA1/A.V./Tear.
/Tr  aomant ro gntck anmi;marketing costal coepensatioe  foc demtroyed trope, ete, 50 CPAP/À.U./y'ear
ipril 27. 1975



IPPER VOLTA
LIVESTOCK DfVELOPMENT PROJEC7
Model Croup Rsnchl/Daiy Ranch 15,000 ha
Cash Flov
('00(1 CFAF)
befr-     --------- -----------------------------------------------------^-            --ur----------------------------------------- --------------------- ------
DIvelop-   1            2           3          4          5          6          7          8          9         IO          il         12         13       14-20
ment
tuf lnw (constant prOues)
Cattle  61 ilk Sales                             8,460    7.378       29,939    47,743    49,113    54,324    57,376    60,125   63,968    66,845    68,065    69,492                 71.116     71,994      72.049
Lent  frem 3ND  21                                  -    47.967       45.705    19,932          -          -           -          -         -          -           -          -           -          -          -
Total Ilf1te                                 8,460   55,345        76,644    67,675    49,113    54,324    57,376    60,125   63,968    66,845    68,065    69,492                 71,116     31,994     72,û49
Ontflo  (constant prites)
Fixed Inventanos  3/                                -    32,990       19,567       6,756        -          -           -          -         -          -           -          -           -         -
0-erating Conts  4/                                293   15,347       31,544    32,985    34,085        34,171     35,241    35,340    35,400    35,442        35,485      35,510     35,516      35,516     35,516
Cash Withdeavals  5/                             5,720    5,834        5,951       6,070      6,192      6,315      6,442      6,570    6,701        6,835      6,972       7,111      7,253      7,190       7,50<A
Debt Service on 1N6 Loan                           -       2.398       7,082    10.364    11.360    11,360    11,360    23,335   23,335    23.335    23.335                23.335    23.335    23,135
Total Outflov                                 6,013   56,569       64,144    56,175    51,637    51,846    53,043    65,245   65,436             65,612    65,792      65,956      66,1(04    66,249    43,662
Anssal Surplus (constant prices)                 2,447    (1,224)    11,500    11500 ( 2,524)    2,478              4,333      (5,120)  (1,468)    (1,233)       2,273      3,536      5,012       5.745    28,987
Cunnilativa Surplus (censt.ant prises)           2,447     1,223      12,723    24.223    21,699    24,177    28,510    23,390   21.922    20,689              22,962      26.498    31,510      37,255    66.242 7/
Erpeuted Effitts et Inflation 8/
Inf lev
Cettle & hilk Sales  9/                            338       988       7,395    17,760       24,999    35,854    47,392    60,666   77,401          95,655   113,94]    134,884   158,944   184,233   210,023
Lon   frno  UNSD                                   -      9.218      16.273    11.039          -          -          -           -         -          -           -          -          -           -          -
Total Outflov                                   338   10,206       23,668    28.799    24,999        35,854    47,392    60,666   77,401        95,655   113.941   134 .84   150.944   184,233   210,023
Outflow
Fiped  Invsstsenta    10/                          -       7,148        7,494      3,528              -          -          -         -                -           -          -           -          -          -
Cperatiog Coets  311                                10    2,037        7,662    11,993       16,740    21,512    27,237    33,043   39,369    46,289    53,856            62,114      71,141     71,141     71,141
Cash Withdraemsl   12/                             200       624       1,095      1,621       2,204      2,848      3,562      4,349     5.213       6.172      7,223       6.377      9,654    1l .053    12,594
aebt Service on BND Lomn  13/                      -         461       1,736      3.101       3.653      3,653      3,653      7,503    7.503        7,503      7.503       7.503      7,503      7.503       7,503
Total Ostfin                                    210   10,270       17,987    20,243    22.597    28,013    34,452    44,895   52,085    59,964              68,582     77.994    88,290       89,697    91.230
Net effects of inflation                        128       (64)      5,681      8,556      2,402       7,841     12,940    15,771   25,316        35,691     45,359     56.890    70.646    04h536    118.705
Ann.al Sarplsa (narrent prlces)                  2,575    (1,288)    17,181       20,056      ( 122)   10,319    17,273    10,651    23.048         34,458    47,632    60,426        75.650    110,261    147,772
C,Itlaîive Surplus (curreet pri.e.)  15/    2,575          1,287      18,468    38,524    38,402    48,721    65,994    76,645  100,493   134,951   182,583   243,009   316,667   418,948   566,720   141
I/   From Table 3, donne't ineluda aOlb cennump          vhics tcb   n sot cahed In.
2/   Fron Table 2; 10  interest; 13 yeare; race peried of 6 year  feor payment of the prIncipal.
3/   Fronm Table 2.
4/   Fros Table 4, Inn.  alaries of hard-men end u..killad lab-erar  vhich corresponds to  fa) Iy labor ont nalid ont.
5/   subsistence requirentents (except milk) gre,ing et population gresth rate (r.) until Yent 14,
6/   Mainitined at a siaines levai (abhot CFAF 11.5 million in Ye-t 2 and CFAF 23.0 million theraifter   Tabla 5) to eable thi  pou.hase nf ateers at the begluolog cf each fcllou)ng year-
1    CtaIalated aneplua incrrasing by CFAF 28,987 million  -auh ye-r frm YTear 15 and thareafter.
N/ Not cal-olated sfter Tear  14, group ranch assoe,ed te be b isrted in project Yea  1.
91   Inflated  ith internateonal price indsn  shituli  s ar.n.d 87 in Tsar O sud 107 fror Year 1 t. Yeer 10; assoned te  tonsti.n.  g-rong ulth th. aine rate th-ereater
I0/  ARtual price  nontingenniea  for project  osits.
11/   Inflatiin tates osed for cueputinf prOie nnntfngeeuina for prejant resta (sae main rnprt).
12/   Isflated sith 75 pur yar.
13/   Debt servnic  as Os footonoe 2. cleI-lantd  -ver  -ntingenc..s.
T4/   Cunlatad s-rplus lnnreaslng by CFAF 147,772  illIion  (sith pricte  of Year 14) each yeau fres Year 15 sud thereafter
15/   Inr1 ndas provision tn pnrrhaa  steamer   ttl  bag-nning of e-uh follnsgnv yvas    5-srs-, -l-a infls-d 107 eanh yer.  ranga from CFAF 14.3 nillino <n Ynar 7.    CrAF 31.6 nîlli-o i
Year 3 and to CFAF 90.0 ejJllon iO Yeau 14.
May 5, 1975
nrc7



V0    | k0 %~~...                                  2            j                                                                                            w      -N---     -  .   r-  .H* N_G          -  | ~ i   2-I  N  
o |"   I_ _ sç__~            -                           @vII-             Sr                                                    - -----'-
.ui     ~               ~~ 0.4.004 X- 11-1'çs
Yx                      I   1e16w@|1.*X   l@e   e  &|.||1 ll......................|- |fl*@0|§t--isl-I.j......... 
0'~~~ ~~ ~ ~        ~                                                                                                                                 .                                             i 4     :N        R        0a      
: |  3 ' '     i   '               ; ffi    ! O j                        M9 g    -G    1:  ,13i iI 



C-      u..   0-             N~88...08   8..1o.1Cn.7-Cn8
18~~~~~~!L884..~~~~~~~~~~~~9!8t    Cnt. ~ ~ ~ ~  ~        ~        ~                     à.    -
l  40../1                                            2.128                    6.526                   9.276                   9.52*                    99576                  9.,56                      5,17                  9.376
s..8. '2                                -                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,280  3,M 8403M                                                              .o3.G3
T.,.1 OI.                                     2.128                  IL                      134jfi                   13416                   4561                     "1346                  13  16                  83486
~4.40:~,809l.~                        1           -       -                     1.80               I      08I                    1.8                      .8               I      .88I                   8,8                1    1.888
08004 "8118078                   888~~~~~M  3    1.486                  4.688              8    228                      238                     l:18               8    4,:8                    14,00-                     -
406       3    1. 288             6    2.608              9    3.688              9    3. 688              9     .688              6    2.480              3    1.88 ma
WC8       I      600              I       688             1       688             I       680                     680              1      688              I      688              I       Mo
7,1.1                           ~~~~      ~ ~~~~                 ~~358     1  358 I 35     1       350             I                   35I          38              I       lm8             I       lm0             1       2
400<1,0 l~~~~bo~~ -              248~      5    1.8                     1,880              6    1,288              6    1.888              6    1,30                6    1. 288             6    1.28o              6    1.20.
e..iii    i.- L                  52        5      68               6      220              6       228             8       728             6       728                     7 21             6       228             6       718
5,0.170.1                          .~~~~~~~~~~~,30.5        411686                  16,518                   16.318                                          11.11                    9.318                   LZI
881S17018 180/                                                                       1,.7229                              1,07            0 1.078               .2                    1.076                   1.020                    1.020
e.11-1.. & 171-1  1I..d1188.Ilti 7*11 198j                                            229                     2'29                    229                      28                      728                     ns                      229
0 ,011   1,  10                                    -330                                                                    250                      358                    -338                     30                      350
S..4~~~~~~~~~o8.l     .                     1415                    I 649 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~164*1                                            I 81,49                 1.44                    I70
4     r,o.otî1 ît606                                                             606                     686                      006                     686                     606                     688                     686
C-tL /22                                                     628                     428                      428                     488                     428                      628                     428                     428
781175.7  h.,  /13                                      64                      583                      593                     593                     593                     $93                     393                     511
6,-, 4114v                                                102                     102                     182                     182                      102                    1lot1                                             8
<fr1,.70y11I.8  /13                          .144~~~~~~~~-l           le4                       1                      114                     ,11                     ,11                      114                     114
7.41,18 7.p1.î..~~~~~~~~~~.o1  /16       . ~~~~1, 237                                  1,7372                  1.337                   1.232                   1.232                    1.I32                   1.17
7<..17l87~~~~~~~~8 /07                1.869                    I~~~~~~~~ 009           1.689                   1.4*                    1.1*!                   1.4*!                    1460!                   I 6
1.04.1,4.1                           ~~~~~~~~~                         ~~3_329  523.49                                                1 _46_                   j.46                    1.!                       46
<7100,87<07088.                               588~~~~~~~~~~~M         588                      580                     560                     588                     988                     5                        571<
T-11t 4p7470e  /11                                            "O815                                                                   250                      230                     23 58                                           230
4o1..0 8.88088.81~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-10I
V,41,f.. /18                      .                                              2    .                                           2                       7                       7                       7                        1
,w-    .....8..O p--t-tîaj1                                   62                                             28                      33                       23                      23                      21                      Il
l<pp1.4481887t18  111                          ~           ~          ~~~~~                                ~          ~~5 13  13  13            15                      1                       1Ji1
FîO£8   84  8,                                                                                     "O464  4                648                     468                      648                     648                      4
08r4-k8.                                               lmjf                                                                  Ja                         182du1                                                                  2
14thC    f 4.7k 888   j                                                                                                                                                                                                           8 2911
T.t1101718          ..                                    15.841                  2933                     3  2                    3 343336                                        19_1j6                  26_17162   1
2  igh,      2 087d-C, 2 80-.71 788  1b.-8..
77 F..,41.701710171..8..088   I ..0-8,1.8 8  .0110..t88  ...8 htr-..9; 35 83                                 p-7 ~-64. *.0 88481. 88 6/8.. -18 -i71816.k8Y-1.89                                          k   .  .-3
<7 J170181878    .7070887781877
L!   10  01           -,0701171188
2e, 7 1-l... ,i1.. --.88 g .- 7.8h7
100.,178-,4.8817118   150.00..8
CII, 230 78r 4.4. 889 7"8.7cr.30AM
',0 27oOt.. 19       7  .05 1



UPPER VOLTA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Group Ranch Development Center Samorogouan
Cash Flow/
('000 CFAF)
------- -------------------------Year---------------------------------
1     2        3        4        5         6        7      8-20
Inflow
Revenue 2/                        2,128   l0,856   13,416   13,416   13,416   13,416   13,416   13,416
Receipts from Group Ranches         -      6,654   13,308   19,960   19,960   25,081   21,481   17,881
Loan from GoverrDnent 4/        108,828   15,290    6,652          -             -        -        -
Total Inflow               110,956   32,800   33,376   33,376   376 76   38,497   34,897   31,297
Outflow
Fixed Investments  5/            97,815    3,546      -        -        -        -        -        -
Operating Costs £/               13,141   29,254   33,376   33,376   33,376   29,776   26,176   22,576
Repayment of Loan to Government                      -                         8,721    8,721    8,721
Total Outflow               110,956   32,800   33,376   33,376   33,376   38,497   34,897   31,297
Annual Surplus                       -         -        -        -        -                 -        -
1/ In constant prices.
2/ From Table 8.
3/ Figures derived from aggregating group ranch operating costs shown in Table 5, with following phasing;
3 group ranches in Year 1;
6   "l               i If   2;
9   tt          t Yeàrs 3-20.
4/ From Table 7, no interest rate, 20 years; 5 year grace period.
j/ From Table 7.
6/ From Table 8.
April 27, 1975



UPPER VOLTA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPNENT PROJECT                                                                        T-e 7
Veterinary Service
Model - Comunal Herd - 3.000 Cous
Herd Projection
Before         ---------------------------------------- End of year ---------------------------------------
Development        1           2            3            4           5            6            7           8          9-20
Bhrd Composition
Bulls (over 3 years) ........   . 300               300          300         300          300          300         300          300         300          300
Breeding cows ...............   3,000            3,000        3,000        3,000       3,000        3,000        3,000       3,000        3,000        3,000
Calves weaned .1,170                             1,200        1,260        1,320       1,320        1,320        1,320       1,320        1,320        1,320
leifers 1-2 years .550                              550          570         605          634         634          634          634         634          634
Reifers 2-3 years .517                              517         522          547          581         609          609          609         609          609
Males 1-2 years .550                                550         570          605          634         634          634          634         634          634
Males 2-3 years .407                                407         412          433          460         482          482          482         482          482
Steers 3-4 year .253                                253         258          268          283         304          321         321          321          321
Steers 4,S years .175                               175         177          183          190         201          216          228         228          228
Steers 5-6 years .                     120          120         122          126          130         134          143          153         162          162
Total Animals .7,042                             7,072        7,191        7,38i       7,532        7,618        7,659       7,681        7,690        7,690
Total Animal Units (A.U.             5,872       5,872        5,931        6,067       6,212        6,298        6,339       6,361        6,370        6,370
Mortality
Bulls over 3 years 13 .......           18           18          15           12           12          12           12           12          12           12
Breteding cowa plus replacements   211              211         176          141          142         143          144          144         144          144
Heifers 1-2 years   .       .           35           35           30          25           26          26           26           26           26          26
Heifers 2-3 years   .       .           33           33          28           23           24          25           25           25          25           25
Males 1-2 yeara ........ : X .          35           35          30           25           26          26           26           26          26           26
Males 2-3 years   .        .33                       33          28           23           24          25           25           25          25           25
Steers 3-4 years   .        .20                      20          17           14           15          16           17           17          17           17
Steers 4-5 year    .        .15                      15          13           10           il          il           12           13          13           13
Steers 5-6 years .          .il                      il           9            7            7           8            8            9           9            9
Steers over 6 years                      7            7           6            5            5           5            5            6           6            6
Total Mortality                        418          418         352          285          292         297          300          303         303          303
Sales
Cull bulls 4.8.......U.48.48            48           48          48           48
Cull cos .306                                      306          341          381  -  405              438          465         465          465  46 5
Males 2-3 years .110                                110         110          114          121         127          127          127         127          127
Steers 3-4 years .68                                 68          69           70           75          80           84          84           84           84
Steers 4-5 years .63                                 63          63           65           67          71           76           80          80           80
Steers 5-6 year .44                                  44          44           44           46          48           50          54           57           57
Steers over 6 years .113                            113         114          117         121          125          129         137          147          156
Total sales .752                                    752         789          839         883          937          979         995        1,008       1,017
= ~          ~           ~            _ _          -           -            _
Tachnical Ooefficienta,
Calves weaned           ..   .          39           40          42           44           44          44           44           44          44           44
Adult mortality 7.          .            6            6           5            4            4           4            4            4           4            4
Cow culling rate     .      .           10.2         10.2        11.4         12.7         13.5        14.6         15.5         15.5        15.5         15.5
Bull culling rate  b.                   16           16          16           16           16          16           16           16          16           16
Offtake males 2-3 years b.              20           20          20           20           20          201          20           20          20           20
Offtake steers 3-4 years %_,            20           20          20           20           20          20           20           20          20           20
Offtake steers 4-5 years % ...          25           25          25           25           25          25           25           25          25           25
Offtake steers 5-6 years b.             25           25          25           25           25          25           25           25          25           25
Offtake steers 6-7 years %.            100          100         100          100          100         100          100         100          100          100
Bull/Cow ratio 7  .......  .      11                 10          10           10           10          10           10           10          10           10
Cowa  in total herd 7 .42.4                          42.6        41.7         40.6         39.8        39.4         39.2         39.1        39.0         39.0
Offtake rate 7.                         10.7         10.6        11.0         11.4         11.7        12.3         12.8         13.0        13.1         13.2
Stocking rate  ha/A.U.                  14.1         14.1        14.0         13.7         13.4        13.2         13.1         13.0        13.0         13.0
/1  100 herds (30 coua per herd plus followers).  Individual 30 cov herd managed by a Peulh family that çnms ebout 70b of the bard, the
remainder are owned by about four crop farmers.
/2  Animal Unit (A.U.): 1 head of cattle over 1 year old.
/3   Replaced    from males 2-3 years.
/4  Assuming a calving rate of 60b and a graduai reduction of calf loses from 35% to 27%.
February 13, 1975



UPPER VOLTA                                                       ANNEX 7
LIVESTOCC DEVELOPHENT PROJECT                                              Table 11
Veterinary Service
Model-Coammunal Herd - 3 000 Cows
Income and Operating Costs
(CPAF '000)
Before- --------------------------------------------Year-----------.--------------------_--__-__________
Development         1          2           3           4          5           6           7          8           9-20
Income
Cattle Salas-
C1tt   uSall                       2,016            2,016      2,016       2,016      2,ol6       2,016       2,016      2,016       2,016      2.016
Cull Cows                         6,120            6.120       6,820       7,620      S,100       8,760       9,300      9,300       9,300      9,300
Males ?-3 years                    2,713            2,783      2,783       2,884       3,061      3,213       3.213      3.213       3,213      3,213
Steers 3-4 years                  2.094            2,094       2,125       2,156      2.310       2,464       2,587      2,587       2,587      2,587
Steers 4-5 vears                  ?,2,27           2,287       2,287       2,360      2,432       2,577       2,759      2,904       2,904      2,904
Steers 5-6 years                   1,901           1,901       1,901       1,90fl     1,987       2,074       2,160      2,353       2,462      2,462
Steers over 6 years /2             4,B82           4,882       4,925       5,054      5,227       5,400       5,573      5,91oc      6,350      6,739
Value of Milk Production"             6,750            6,7o       6,750       6 750       6,750      6,750       6.750       6,75o      6.75o       6.7so
Total brcome                      2P.83,           28,833     29.607      30.741      31,885     3           34,358      35.021     55,582     5
OPerating Costo
Animal Eealth         t3
Vaccination Rinderpest                13              35          36          13          13         13          13          13         13          13
Vaccination CBPP /4                   lS              35          36          74          75         76          77          77         77          77
Vaccination Anthrax, Blackleg
and Pasteurellosis/5                 -               -           -           13          14         14          14         14          14          14
Calf Drenching /6  -2-                                -           -           52         552                     52         32          32          32
Sub-total Vaccines               36              70           72         132        134         135         136        136         136        136
Veterinary Service Charge /T          -               -            -          -                                 7 4 3       743        743         743
Sub-total                         56              70          72         132        hL77        878         879        879         879        879
DerdinR-                           5,775          5,775        5,775       5,775      5,775       5.775       5,775      5,775       5,775       5,775
Cattle Taxes '                       352            354          360         369         377        381         383         3P4        585         385
Total Operating Costs             6,163           6,199        6,207       6.276      7,029       7.034                              7,039 708L.2 .09.9
Net Income                       22.670            22,654     2 _,400     24,465     24.ô54      26,220      27.321     27,905      28,545      28.952
Price per      Price per
Live Weight LW(kg)    kg LW CFAF       head CFAF
/I  Prom Table 10, weights and prices at sale:   Cull bulle                              350                 120           42,000
Cull cows                             250                  80          20,000
Males 2-3 years                       230                 100           23,000
Steers 3-4 y.ars                      280                 110           30,800
Steers 4-5 years                      330                 110          36,300
Steers 5-6 years                      360                 120          43,200
Steers over 6 years                   360                 120          43,200
/2  Milk yield: 150 kg per lactation at CFAF 25 per kg (60% caIving rate), part of which is used for remu.nerating herding (CFAF 4.563 million);
this represents a subsistence consumption of 5 kg/day/family.
/5  50% coverage before developsient, 100% coverage in Pr.ject Years 1 and 2, only calves waned thereafter; famerrs contribution:CFAF 5/head
(50% of vaccine cost) before development, Year 1 and 2; CFAF 10/head Year 3 and thereafter.
/4  CBPP: Contagious Bovine Pleuropneusonia; one vaccination/head/year; and thereafter; farmer's contribution: CFAF 5/head (50% of vaccine csst)
before development, Year 1 and 2; CFAF 10/head Year 3 and thereafter.
,b  6% coverage before development, 10% coverage of all cattle (corresponding to all cattle in endemic areas) thereafter; farmera  contribution
CFAF 18/head (CFAF 6 for Anthrax; CFAF 6 for Blackleg, CFAF 6for Pasteurellosis) commencing Year 3.
f6  ao01 of veaners once a year commencing Year 1; farmer's contribution CFAF 30/head, commencing Year 3.
/7  Share of operating cost of veterinary field service, including vastage of vaccines and allowance for CBPP vaccine reactions <0.5%), to be
treated at CFAF 250/head.
id 50 berdsmen working 300 days (CFAF 385 per man-day) paid partly in kind (milk): CFAF 4.563 million, partly in cash: CFAF 1.212 million.
/9 CFAF 200/head over 2 years; 25% of cattle pay the ta. (according to atatistics on the efficiency of tax collection).
April 28, 1975



ANNlX 7
Table 12
UPPER VOLTA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Veterinsry Service
InvestQent Caste
(CFAF   000)
Year I                     Year 2                        Yesar 3
No. of                   No. of                    No. of                     Total        Total
Unit      Unit Coste       Units      Cost          Uite         Ctot         Units        Cout        Units         Coat
INVBSTMi'T CATECORY
Ftased Inveettneots
Bolldign. a-d Structures                         2
Vetorinary sector headquartsre    1/        100 e    4,000               -             -        2              8,000         -             -        2             8,000
Ve.ericary poste    2/                       70 n2    2,800            1            2,800       2              5.,600       2            5,600      5            14,000
Housing, senior staff  3/                    85 *2    3,500            1            3,500      4              14,000       2            7,000       7            24 500
Hoosiaf, veterinary nurses  4/               60 n      2,400           2            4,800       -                -                         -        2             4,800
Vaccioati-o yards (new)  5/                  N.        1,500          10           15,000      20             30,000        6            9,000     36             54.000
Vaccination  yards (repair)  6/              No.         200          10            2 000      13             2,600          -                     23              4,600
Sob-total                                                                      28,100                     60E200                    21 600                   l09,90,
Vehicles
4 aheal drive vehicles  7/                  No.        2,020           3            6,060       2              4,040        -              -        5            10,100
Caca  S/                                    No.        1,070           2            2,140       -                -          -              -        2             2,140
Pick-opa  il                                No,          920           4            3,680       2              1,840        _              _        6             5,520
Motocyclen   10/                            No.           57          28            1.596      17                969        -              -       45             2.565
Sob-Total                                                                      13.476                      6,49                                               20,325
Equipaent
Tee -achines  11/                           No.          600           1              600         -              -         -              -         1               600
Freezers   12/                              No.          250           5            1,250         -              -          -              -        5             1,250
Refrigerators   13/                         No.          110           7              770                                                           7               770
Insulated containers  14t                   Na.           15          20              300        -               -         _               -       20               300
Theraps flasks   15/                        No.            8          30              240         -              -          -              -       30                240
Vtetrinary kit   16/                        No.        1,000           2            2,000         -              -          -              -        2             2,000
Caquing gear    17,                         No.        1,000           2            2,000 D O                              -              -         2             2.000
Office furnitur, veterinary sectars         No.        1,200            -             -         2              2,400       -              -         2             2,400
Office furniture  veterisary poste          No.        1,000            -             _          3             3.000       2            2,000       5             5,000
Office nachines   18/                       No.          130            -             -         5                650       2               260      7               910
Sob-total                                                                       7,160                      6,050                     2,260                    15,470
TataI fised ITvestnnts                                                            48 7_36                    73 0_99                   23_,860                  145_695
Physical Contingencies (10)                                                        4,874                      7,310                    2,386                    14,570
Total Fixed Ilvesntecte                                                            53 610                     80 409                    26,246                  160 265
ITcre-ental Operatina Costs  19/                                                      16,713                     21,270                    24,041                   62,024
Total 1     tveetiecta                                                            70 2_32                   101_,679                   50287                    222 289
1I   Lecatad et Tougan and BSrt .
2f   Located et Solenso, Bageasi, Oarkoye and Itiesbara in the Dedaogou ORD sd et Sorogouan in  h.e Bobo-Dioulasso ORD.
3/  On- each for the 2 Veterinary Sectors snd 5 Veterinary Poste to be developd.
4/   At SontorogovOn
5/   26 vaccination yrds in Dedougou OiD and 10 in Bobo-Di-ulasea ORD.
6/   15 vaccination yards in Dedougou OD and 8 in Bobo-Diouasso usu.
7/   1 for each sector (Bobo-Dioulasso, Dedougou, Tougan, Nouna, Boroo).
81 I for each veterinary district (Bobo-Diculasso, Dedougou).
9/   I for each sector (Bobo-Dioulasso, Dedougou, Tougn, Noana, Boroo).
10/   3 for each veterinary sector and veterinary post.
11/   For Dedougou.
12/   4 for Dedougou, 1 (electric) for Bobo-Dioulasso.
13/   5 for Bobo-Dioulasso, 2 for Dedougou.
14/   For transportation cf vaccine frai center ta vet«inary past.
151 For tr-asportation cf vaccine from veterinary pont to vaccination yards, 2 per veterinary sectar/post.
16/   One each for Bobo-Dioulasso sud Dedougod.
17/   One etch for Boba-Diaulmso and Dedougou.
1-8   Equipmient for 2 vsterinary sectors snd 5 nev veterinsry posta.
191   Operating costs not oevered by herd awners *pd Gov«enant contributions, see Tables 13  nd 14.
April 30, 1975



ANNEX 7
UPP3R VOLTA                                                               Table 13
LIVESTOCg DEVE1OPMENT PROJfCT
Oa)pritiflg Ceote
(CFAF '000)
Unit    ltit            Brfore           Yeoc I            Yror 2             Y-0r 3            Ye-e 4            yedr 5             Yer 6             Y-r 7-20
Ceci        Oeoeloprornt
OPOBATIBC COSTS
Wagon and Salaries
Vetreinario                                    No.      2,000       1      2,000      I      2,000      1      2,000       1      2,000      1      2,000        1     2,000      1       2,000     1      2,000
V.terinocy Anict-ot                           No         900       S      4,500      6      5,400      6      5,400       6      5.400      6      5,400       6      5,400    6         5,400     6      5,400
Veterin-r,y NIre-                              No         400      10      4,000     15      6,000    15       6,000      15     6,000    15        6,000      15      62000   IS        6 000   1        6,000
Tempororo Veoieators                           No.        170       -           -    15      2,550    IS       2,550    15        2,550     15      2,550      S5      2,550   IS         2 550   1S       2 550
Deivrer                                        No.        240       3        720      3         20      5      1 200       5      1,200         5   1.200       S      1.200    5        1,200      5      1,200
Unrkiîed taler                                 No         120       7        840        15    1,8        00           15  1i000              15     1.800       15                        1,800    15      1,800
Akcoldtcbt                                     No         400       -           _     2         00      2        800       2        800      2        800       2       800       2         800    2         800
Typisi                                         No,        240                  -      2        480      2        480       2        480      2        480       2        400      2         480    2         480
Sub-tot.1                                                            12.û60             19.750           20.230             20.230             20.230            20.230             20.230           20.230
Building Maintencece & RerOies121, 425 3/                                                    2,850             3,265             3,965               4,315             4,315             4,315             4,315
OCCite'                                                                       880  /          1,760           1,900              21170              2,170             2,170 2.12                          2,1 0
Vaoniectien Yarda                                                          1.050 3/          2.100             2.850             43350               4.350             4 350       _     4  350 4_350
S.b-to.at                                                              3.355             6.710             8 015            10.485             10.835             10.835            10.835           10,835
Vehtcle Rueeing Ceain 4/
4 Whe1el Drive Vehitla 4 /                                                 1,212             3,030             3,030              3,030              3,030             3,030              3,030            3,030
Cees 6/                                                                      963               963               963                963                963               963                963              963
Pick-up1 7/                                                                     -            6,104             1,840              1,B40              1,840             1.840              1,840            1,840
Hotbenyela  8/                                                               570             2,16 6            25 65              25                                   25565 2             ,565            2,565
Vehicle Replano- nt 9/                                                     1,379                  _                 _             4,010              4.010             4.010  _           4 010            4,010
S.b-t.ta1                                                             4.124              7.263             8.398            12.408             12.408             12.408            12.408           12.408
ECUips,Ont
Operatiee of Cooling Pc-ilitire  10/                                          160 3/            320               320               320                320                320               320              3200
RlplceneOnt Il/                                                              200 1/            200  l             764             1.369          _____1.595            1.595              1.595            1,595
Sub-eotal                                                                360               520             1.084             1.689              1.915              1.915             1.915             1 915
Pnroh.eo of Vaccines and Drnas 12/
Rindarpsat   /                                             10    212       2,120   297       2,970   378       3,708   174        1,740     114      1,140    78          780 78            780    78        781
CBP]P 14/                                                  10    212       2,120   297       2 970   378       3,780   434       4,340    443        4,430   448       4.480   450       4,500   452       4,520
Oouihrae. Bleehîsg. Peaîacreltloea     15/                 18      29        522    41         738    43          774    45         810      46        828    49          882    50         900     50       900
Diug- I 6/                                                250       1.0      250       .        375      1.9      475      2.2      550       2.2      550      2.2       550      2.3      575      2 1      7 %
Catf den.ehing 17/                                         30       -           -    32        960    40       1.200    45        1.350      45      1.350    45       1.350    45       1.350  _45        1,350
Snb-ioicl                                                              5,012             S,013            10.009             8.790              8.298              8_042            _  1o5_           b,12$
Off ien Enreense
Offint Enry                                                                  100               200                200               200                200               200                200              200
Pestage                                                                       50               100                100               100                100                100               100              100
Otilitise                                                                    200               300                300               300                300               300                300              300
sub-tot.l                                                                350               600               600               600                600                600               600              600
TOTAL OPERATINXi COSTS                                               25.261            42.856             48.336            54.202             54.286             54.030            54.093           54 113
1/  6 onthe per y-0r ai CFAP 21,000 p-r  -nth.
2/  2j% ef velne before developstenn    57 et value durine  proJet felloing yecr oE eonstrucien
3/ Eteieected.
74/  EOtiatisd n..be- of vehiclea bhefoe developtent   2 fiur-eheel drive vehîclea, 2 coco  10 motorcycles; feIl ec- pork of 5 four-vheel driva vehiclse, 2 ca, 6 pi,k-ep. and 45
Fo,niecyclen a le 00 2.
5/  307.  f purihasa price; 20.000 kF per -elhiele per ye-r
6/ 45X. oC purehone price, 24,000 Inn par vohiels pee Oece.
7/  40% of purîha.e  peies; 20.000 I, per vehic   p-r yer.
8/  100I   of peecha.e pri-e; 15, 000 kI  p"r -otorcyel1  per y0r.
9/  Feur.-herl drive           s h l   vry S yer   cars every S yners; pitk-npa every 6 ye-r; nttorcyelrs . very 4 years ciomseneieg te ProJect Y-r 3.
10/  12  -eeeeeo Oud refrîgereters ai one liter kacoarne/day et CFAF 73 a CFA! 26,645 per refrig- coîee per year.
11/  107 of irvosc.n.  co st pee yea.
12/  Occleaiono pies 57  tagtoîn, ceverage of pre.jat arne,  407 of cttle bfefre developlaeet; 57% ef horde in PrecJet Yar 1 - 40    -neal horde; 71% of herd. it  Prlect Y-er 2
50 cmt-nal hlrda; 807 of horde il  FreJectO YOr   3-20 . 56 conral horde; unit coutl  for 1,000 dosea.
13/  All cetle  bling rrached hy ihe service te bs vaciinoted for twe c                     yesecetîve  .Oe.t, only   --aer c-1-es thrreaftre; CFAF 10 par d.e.
14/  Cetigieou  Borine Pleuropn,,  oni    co-plete horde roe.hed by th.e -eovi. every Ybra; CFAF 10 pot d-e
Ai/ Al -teile On ende .t erene, 107. e  caille pupulction roet yed hy voirrlnury  ervice, CFAY 18 f-r enbitred vonniro
16/  CBPP vecîine retccion, 0,5, rsctieg  _nvorchîy; CFAP 250 pte deor,
17/  80% of c.1vre  i  horde tarch.d by thle Vrarioary terrine cees cysar, CFAP 30 p-e tcif
April 29. 1975



UPPER VOLTA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Veterinary Service
Cash Flowi 
('000 CFAF)
Before        -----------------------------------Year------------------------------------
Development         1          2            3           4          5           6           7-20
Inflow                                    /2
Receipts from Herd Owners for Vaccines               2,016            2,898         3,821      6,916      7,785       8,549       8,401      8,431
/2
Receipte from Herd Owners for Service Charge            -                -          -            -       30,970      39,679      45,487     45,682
Government Contribution to Operating Costs3         23,245           23,245        23,245    23,245      15,531       6,002         205         -
Investment Funds                                        -            70.323       101,679    50,287        -            -                      -
Total Inflow                        25,261           96.466       128,745    80,448      54,286      54.030      54,093     54,115
Outflow
/5
Fixed Investments                                      -             53,610        80,409    26,246         -           -           -          -
Operating Costs                                     25,261           42.856        48.336    54,202      54,286     54,030      54.093      54,113
Total Outflow                       25.261           96.466       128.745    80.448      54.286      54.030     54.093      54,113
Annual Surplus
1/ In constant prices.
2/ Figures derived from aggregating communal herd's and group ranches' operating costs shown in Tables 5 and 11 with following phasing:
40% of cattle population before development: 28 communal herds.
59% "     "         "     in Project Year 1:  40    "             plus 3 group ranches.
73% "     "         "      "    "       " 2:  50                 "     6
81% "        ""                            3-20  56  "        "        9
/ Derived existing Government contribution replaced progressively by herdowners' contribution from Year 4 onwards.
. From table 12, channeled by Government and provided as a grant.
5/ From table 12.
From table 13.
April 27, 1975



ANNEX 7
Table 15
UPPER VOLTA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPHMT PRCJECT
Livestock Marketing /1
Investment Costs
('000 CFAF)
Year 2
Cost per        No. of
Unit        UUnit            Units       Cost
I'VES.`I-  I -T CATEGORY
Stock Iàoutes (730 km)
Concrete Posts £ .î.o. . ......... . .                            8.5          1,03 0    8,50o
Wqs  ''    . ....... .... .N.. .   . ._No.                   2,450                15      36,750
Water-ng Troughs.                                 No.           625                15   9,375
3-ib-?otal   .. . .    ... .. .. .  .                                                   54,625
Holding Ground - Bobo-Dioulasso (6,000 ha)
Firebreaks A .In .. .                             l'l           25                 40   1,000c
Ccncrete 1Posts / S.No.                                           8.5              76        646
rJatering Points .                               No.    1,250                       3   3,750
Piping.                                           m               2            7,000  14,000
Notorcycles. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  No.                57                 2        114
Sub-Total                                                                               19,510
Iiivestock Plarket - Bobo-Dioulasso
FenoinJ Cattle L .O7 .m                                           6.3             630  3,969
Fencing Sheep & Goats L8 .m                                      4.6              310      1,426
WIaterîing Trough. .  . . . . . . . . . . . .   No.          1,250                  1      1,250
Va cînation Crh -/- .No.                                       600                  1        600
Loading Ramp -.                                  No.    8,500                       1   8,500
Rai'lray Connection ...... .                 500 m               25               500     12,500
Office & Shelter                mN2                             ào                70      2.800
Weighbridge                                                    600                 1         600
Sub-Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                               31.645
Total Investments .. .                          .                                           105,780
Physical Contingencies (10 o/o))                                                             10.578
Total Invest ments                                                                          116.358
I/ Investments carried out by PU, facilities to be operated by ONERA.
2/Post interval 350 m, demarcating about 250 km stock routes and 30 small holding grounds;
concrete posts 2.50 m long, 60 cm in earth, and 50 cm diameter concrete base plate.
3/35 m deep, CFAF 35,000 per m.
4/13 m wide.
3/Ircludes 10 posts for stock route between holding ground and market.
6/1'iunicipal supply, trough length 20 m.
7/1.80 m high with 4 rails, CFAF 6,300/m.
8/1.33 ri high with 5 rails, CFAF 4,600/m.
9/30 m long.
1/PFor railway and lorries,  8G m long.
April 28, 1975



A:h2ri7
Ta'ole 1 6
UPPER VOLTA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Meat Processing
Investment Costa
(CFAY '000)
-Year 2-
Cost per                      No. of
llnit                  Unit                          Units           Cost
INVESTMENT CATEGORY /l
Civil Construction
Slaughterhouse
Floor Repairs - Concreting ......................             2                   *2                         560              1,120
Wall Fini:hin  and Tiling ................ ...               m2                   5                           500.            2,500
Sewage gyste2           -       --                          m3                   10                          200              2,000
Renovation of Loading Ramp                           -                        1,000                             1             1,000
Modernization of Buildings/'  ...........'.......  .         -                  500                             1               500
Fly-proof Screening . -.-m2                                                       1                          100                100
Sub-total ........        ..                                                                           7,220
/4
Chill Room                                                      225                                                                0
Floor Repaire - Concreting .* .           -.2                                     2                           50                100
Wall Finishing and Tiling m.2                                                     5                           80                400
Sub-total.                                                                                               500
Machinery and Equipment
Slaughterhouse
Re-designing Overhead Rails .m                                                   25                          100              2,500
Meat Processing Equipment L6 ..       .         .            -               18,000                             1            18,000
Scalding Vat, Hog Slaughter                                  -                  200                             1               200
Boiler Repair /7  ..............................             -                  435                             1               435
Electric Installations 8 .-                                                   1,000                             1             1.000
Sub-total.                                                                                            22135
Chill Room                                                                                                                      3
Refrigerating Machinery' .......................             -  . .000   .                                                    3,000
Electric Installations /10.                                  -                   -                              -               500
Sub-total.                                                                                             3500
Con~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 6.71
Consultin EnginaerfLg!................                                                                                           6-671
Total Fixed Investmenta                                                                               40 026
Physaical Contingenciea (10)                                                                          4,003
Total Investment ..............                                                                           44029
1  Renovating alaughterhouse to provide improved meat hygiene standards.
2  Installing concrete pipea (100 m), gutters and *edimentation tank.
/3  Minor repairing and painting of buildings, cleaning and repairing surrounding groundq.
L4  Renovating existing chill room (capacity: 40 cattle or 7 tons meat).
/5  Prices include packing and ahipping costs.
/6  On-line slaughtering (20 cattle!hour).
/7  Installing new pipes and avitchboard.
L   Re-wiring slaughterhouse.
/9  Compressor, evaporator and condenser (air cooled system).
/10 Re-wiring cold room and providing awitchboard.
/11 For basic design, opecification and supervision of vorks: 207 of inveatuents.
April 28, 1975



ANNEX 7
Tabie 17
UPPER VOLTA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ONERA Bobo-Dioulasso Headquarters
Asoumed Investment Costs
Year 2
Cost per                     No. of
Unit                    Unit                         Units                   Cost
INVESTMEMT CATEGORY
Fixed Investment
Office Building                             100 m                    4,000                                                 4,000
Office Equipment
Office Furniture                          -                       -                             -                      1,000
Office Machines                           -                       -                             -                        500
Sub-Total                              -                       -                            -                      1,500
Vehicles
Station Wagon                           No.                     1,230                          1                       1,230
Motorcycle                              No.                        57                           1                         57
Sub-Total                              -                       -                            -                       1,287
Total Fixed Investment                                                                                                         6. 787
Physical Contingencies (10I)                                                                                                     678
Total Fixed Investment                                                                                 7-465
Il These are not part of the Project but have been estimated for the financial rate of return
ealculation in ANNEX 10.
21 5 rooms plus utilities.
May 5, 1975



ANNEX 7
UPPER VOLTA                                                                       Table 1e
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ONERA - Livestock Marketing
1/
Assumed Income and Operatina Costs-
--------------------------------_------ Project Year -------------------------
2            3          4          5          6           7          8          9         10        11-20
ANMISS ON WHICH FEE IS
COLLECTED (head) rd
Catile .  ........ . .. .   39,200                  45,700    45,400    47,200    49,100    49,400    49,800,   49,500    49,000    49,400
Sheep & GIats .  . . ... ...   43,500               43,800    44,000    44,300    44,600    44,900    45,200    45,500    45,800    46,100
--------------------------------------------   CFAF'000    ------------  -------------------~ ~------ -----
INCGME
Cattle .3                              11,760    13,710  13,620  14,160  14,730  14,820  14,940  14,850  14,700  14,820
Sheep & Goats /.                        6.525        6,570       6.600      6,645      6.690      6.735      6,780   6.825          6,870  6. 915
Total Income ....... ...18. 285                 20,280    20.220    20,805    21.420    2               21,720           21,675  21,570    21,735
OPERATING COSTS
Salaries & Wages
Foreman .                                 390           390        390        390        390        390        390         390        390        390
Market Supervisor ..          . . .       250           250        250        250        250        250         250        250        250        250
Cashier. .500                                           500        500        500        500        500        500         500        500        500
Skilled Labor .250                                      250        250        250        250        250        250         250        250        250
Unskilled Labor .175                                    175        175        175        175        175        175         175        175        175
S    u-Total .1.565                              1.565      1.565        1.565      1.565      1.565      15        1.565      1,565      1.565
Civil Works Maintenance & Repairs
Stock Route Water /5 . . .  . .           -          1,154       1,154      1,154      1,154      1,154      1,154      1,154       1,154      1,154
Holding Ground Firebrgksaf6   . .         -             400        400        400        400        400        400         400        400        400
Holding Ground Water         .     .      -    £2       888        888        888        888        888        888         888        888         888
Market Fencing, Troughs,crush & Weighbridge             392        392        392        392         392        392        392        392        392
Market Railway  2  . . . .                              525        525        525        525        525        525         525        525        525
Market Office & ShelterL°0                -             140        140        140        140        140        140         140        140        140
S    u-Total .- .. ..       .3,499    3.499                            3.499      3.499      3,±499      3.499      3.92       34         3.49
Vehicle Running Conts
Motorcycles /11 .  .                      114           114        114        114        114        114         114        114        114        114
Replacement /12  . . . .-. . .  .                        29         29         29         29         29         29          29         29         29
Sub-Total..         o        l       11.4 . .43 .1143                    143 14     143                               143        143        143
Water /13  . . . . . . . . . . . .          fif           773        768        799        830        835         842        837        ô29      ..&
Rent  -    ..  .  .....     ..              300           300        300        300        300        300         300        300        300        300
Total Operating Coste. . . .    2,645            6,28o      6,275      6,306       6,337    6,342       6,349       6,344      6,336      6344
ONERA would operate the livestock marketing facilities financed under the Project; income and operating costs have been estimated for the
1  finan.l rate of return calculation in ANNEX 10.
12 From Annex 3, Table 1.
/  Market fee: 300 CFAP/head.
74 Market fee: 150 CFAF/head.
7; 2.5% of investalent costs from year following construction.
g  By contractor, CFAF 10,000 per km;              40 km; starting year after development.
/7 5h of investment coats from year following construction.
72 57. of investwent conts from  year following construction.
9 2.57. of investment costs from year following construction.
,Ta  5% of investment costs from year following construction.
n  Maintenance, insurance and fuel: 100% of purchase price; 15,000 bn.
2 25% of purchase costs.
'13 Cattile: 30 liters per head and per day, 10 days stay on holding ground,Small ruminants   4 liters per head end per day, 2 days'stay on
holding ground; CFAF 55/m3 .
!14 Paid to municipality for market,  replaces net benefits to the muntcipality from the old livestock mrarket.
April 29, 1975



UPPERP VOLTA                                               AN4EX 7
Tabl-e 19
LIVE5TCCK DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
ONERA - Meat Processing
Assumed Income and Operating Costs e
--------------------------------------- Yaer --------------------------
2          3           4           5           6           7          8           9         10-20
VCLI.U Y1
Catt'e Scuivalents (head) /12 ... .. .    28,602         29,951      31,372     32,861      34,425      36, -;66    37,790      39,63]     h1,501
----------- ----- -- --------- ------ 2 000 CFAF------------------
Slaughter fee 2         . .   . .  .  .  .  ..    .   34,322  35,945  37,646      39,433     41,310      43,279      45,348      47,521      49,801
Sale of by-product  L.2,574k                               2,695       2,823       2,957       3,098       3,246      3,401       3,564       3,7à5
Chillroom charges 5 .      ...     ..1..,                   . 1.270    1,270       1,270       1.270       1.270      1,270                   1.270
Total Income ..                         . .   38, 166     39,910      41 i39      43,660      45,678     47,795      50,019      52,355'    54,806
OPERATING COSTS
Direct Costs
Salaries - slaughterhouse/6 .  . .            6,257       6,257       6,257       6,257       6,257       6,257      6,689       6,689       6,689
Salaries - meat van /              . .   . .     422         422         422         422         422         422         422        422         422
Utilities - slaughterhq,.L.e         ,       15,158      15,876      16,627      17,417      18,246      19,115     20,029      20,988      21,995
Utilities - chillroom L2 . .,,,,,,                381        381         381         381         381         381         381         381        381
Utilities - meat van /1 0 ,,,                     180        180         180         250         250         250         250         315        315
Sub-Total .22,398                                      23,116      23,867      24,727     25,556      26,425      27,771      28.795      29,802
Overheade
Maintenance - slaughterhqu,se      . . . .    2,875        2,875       2,875       2,875       2,875       2,875       2,875      2,875       2,875
Maintenance - chillroom f   , ,                   300        300         300         300         300         300         300         300        300
Maintenance - meat van f                         405         405         405         475         475         475         475         535        535
Maintenance-labor  - 4                           850         850         850         850         850         850         850        850         850
Administration salaries ;                      2,430       2,430       Z,430       2,430       2,430       2,430       2,430      2,430       2,430
Administration expenses  1 .  . .    .         2,531       2,5531      2.531       2,531 2.531             2.531                              2531
Sub-Total .9,391                                        9,391       9,391       9,461       9,461      9,461       9,461       9,521       9,521
Total Operating Costs.          .  .          31,789      32,507      33,258      34,188      35,017     35,886      37,232      38,316      39,323
ONERA would operate the meat processing facilities financed under the Project; income and operating costa have been estimated
for the financial rate of return calculation in kNNEX 10.
/F From Annex 4, Table 1.
CFAE 1,200/head.
/4  Blood and meat meal: 2 kg/head at CFAF 30/kg; hoof and horn meal: 1 kg/head cattle at CFAF 30/kg.
1,587 head of cattle exported: CFAF 800/head.
L6. 2 foremen/alaughter malam at CFAF 245,000/man-year; 12 trained butchers froa  Year 2 to 7, 14 from Year 7 and thereafter at
CFAF 216,000/man-year, 8 untrained butchers, 2 cleaners, 2 guards at CFAF 175,000 man-year; 2 meat inapectors at  CFAF 537,510/man-year.
17  1 driver at CFAF 247,000/man-year; 1 driver's mate at CFAF 175,000/man-year.
/8  Power: CFAF 240/head; water CFA! 11O/head; fuel: CFAF 180/head.
L Power: CFAF 240/head of cattle exported; 1,587 head of cattle exported.
Fuel and lubricants; CFaF 25/km; from Year 2 to 4: 7,200 km/year; from Year 5 to 8: 10,000 km/year; from Year 9
to 20- 12,500 km/year.
L    Hardware; paints & saall parts equal to 5h of investments: CFAF 1.760 million; detergents & uniforms: CFAF 1.115 million.
12  Gas, electricity, materials, pipes: 72 of investments.
/13  Servicing; CFAF 25/km; from Year 2 to 4, 7,200 km/year; from Year 5 to 8: 10,000 km/year, from Year 9 to 20:
12,500 km/year; insurance CFAF 225,000/year.
14  1 chief mechanic at CFAF 390,000/man-year; 1 mechanic at CFAF 285,000/man-year; 1 laborer at CFAF 175,000/man-year.
/15 I manager at CFAF 2,040,000/man-year; 1 administrator st CFAF 390,000/man-year.
/16  Stationery: CFAF 450,000; utilities: CFAF 450,000; rent Regie Abidjan Niger (RAN) connection: CFAF 31,000; payment to
municipality: CFAF 1,600,000, representing the net benefit accruing to municipality out of the existing facilities before davelopment.
April 29, 1975



ANNEX 7
UPPER VOLTA                                Table 20
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ONERA Bobo-Dioulasso Headquarters
Operating Costs
('000 CFAF)
Year 2             Year 3-20
Cost per - No. of               No. of
Unit      Units       Cost     Units       Cost
OPERATING COSTS
Salaries and Wages (yearly)
Regional X':anager ........... ..........             2,040      1          2,040       1         2,040
Accountant .........................                   390      1            390      1           390
Secretary ..........................                  200      1             200      1           200
Messenger ..........................                  175       1            175      1           175
Driver .............................                  250      1             250      1           250
Sub-Total ........................                  -        -           3-055      -         3,055
Building Maintenance /2 ............... -                    -          -               -           200
Office Equipment Maintenance /1 ......                   -        -            -        -           150
Vehicle Expenses
Station WagoD /4 ....................                 -         -            554      -           554
Motorcycle /  ........ ...............                 -        -             57      -            57
Sub-Total .................-                                 -             611                  611
General Administration
Stationery ..........     .....                       -         -            200      -           200
Utilities ..........     ......                       -         -            450                  450
Sub-Total ......... ..............                  -        -             650                  650
Total Operating Costa       .. ....-                          -          1 4.316    -         14666
Ll ONERA would operate the livestock marketing and meat processing facilities financed under the Project ; income
and operating costs have been estimated for the financial rate of return calculation in ANNEX 10.
/2 5% of investment starting year after investment.
1 lO of investment starting year after investment.
74  45% of purchasing price per year for 24,000 km; includes fuel, lubricants, maintenance and insurance.
/5 100% of purchasing price per year for 15,000 km; includes fuel, maintenance and insurance.
April 27, 1975



0PP11 VOLTA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPME5T PROOSCT
Aeao,cd Cash Floc..
<CFAF' 0002
V--   - - -  - - - - -a--    -  - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - --  - - - - - - - - -  - - - -   - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - --  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - --              - -  - - - - - -  - - -
2    3           4          S           6           7          8           9           I0          il         12          13          14          12q        16          17          1!'        19-20
brome-'                  ~~~~~~~      ~~18,285  20,280  20,220  20,805   21,420      21,555     21,720      21,675      21,510     21,735      21,730      21 755      21,735     21,735      21,735      21,735      21,735      21,735
Lean froc, Coversnent ,           79,976         -           -          -           -           -          -           -                                                                                               
Ooarncte0at   4-            36.382        --                     -         -        -                -                                  -                                                                     -- 
S.b-total.....               134,643       20,280     20,220      20,800      21,420     21,555      21.720      21,675     21,570      21,730      21,735     21,73       21,735      21,735      21,735      21,735     21,735        21,735
I500,5    -           6/           45,166      3991        4,,39      43,6-6'     45.,678'    47,7-5     50,019      52,355.    -'4,8o6      .4,8o6     5480        54,806,    54,806.    -'-Ro6-    -4~o6 '        4-'o       54,806       54,806
Los,n fr.m Gevc-.set -             44 029        -                                  -           -           --                                            ----                                                         
0mb-total  ....2.R,195                     39,910     41,739      43,660      45,670     47,795      50,019      52.305     54,80)6     54,006      54,806      54,806     54,806      54,C506     54,206      54,206      54.206~
_______                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~54,806
L...crtre7.465                             ...v                     -                     _                                                                                  - 
Total aifo- ....             224,303       60,190      61,959     64,465      67,098      69,350     71,739      74,030      76,376     76.541      76,541      76,541      76,541     76,541      76,541      7/ .541     7é:541       76,541
Ont lion~~~~~/                    i635 
Operating Ccet.    -2, 64I5                     6.280       6,275      6,306       6,337       6,342      6,349       6,344       6,336       6,344      6,344       4,344       6.344      6,344       6,344       (.344       <3~44         '~44
DebtSevc  Governnet                 3.999       7.998       7.990      7.996       7.996      13.16       o.o6  1     3.016  13.016          13.0~il16  13.i6       13.016      13.016      13.015     13.016        - 
Snb-teta1.....               103,002       14,278     14,273      14,304      14,335     19,350      19, 3605    19,360      19,352     19.360      19,360      19,360      19,360     19.360      19, 360      6,344       (.344      Q544
Meat Frocess.ing10-                                                                                                                                          --------
11/               44.,029        -           -          -           -           -          -           -                                    
uperatlng  oC...e-2                31,789      32,507      33,250     34,188      35,017      35,50      37,232      38,316      39,323     >9,32       39,323      39,2        39,323      39,323     39.323      39.323      39. 323~    39.32!
Replac.. ent    -                   -            -           -          -           -           -           -         4,500        .        57'.e                     -           -323                                           - 
Dsbt Service Govenet               2.201        4.403       4,405      4.403       4.403       7.165      7.165       7.165       7.165     7,16J        7.160       7.165      2J16         7,6        7,165        --
Sol-total.....                78,019       36,910     37,661      38,091      39,420     43,041      44,397      49,981     46,058      63,488      46,488      46,488     46,488      46,488      4(.422i     39,323      39,323       9.2
Oead Office
Fined bnveemet_e.1                   ,6          -                      -           -                 -                            .                       ----
LAI              7,6                                                                                                                                           -                                   - 
Op-rting Geste                     4,316        4,666       4,606      4,666       4,666       4,666      4,666       4,666       4,666      4,666       4,666       4,666       4,666      4,666       4,666       4.666       41666       4.<'
Raplacemat        i                -      -                  -           -         1,287        -           -          -          1,287        -    -           -                1,287        -          -           -          1.227        -
flobi Service  -    ~~~~~~~~-Z-                            -Z.         --           Z          -Z.                                 - --                                          --                      -          -:
S.b-total.....                19,619        4,666      4,666       4,666       5,953      4,666       4,666       4,666       5,953      4,666       4,666       4,660      5.903       4,666       4,666       4,666       5.953       4.i
Total Outflo                 220,640       00,804     î6,60o      07,561      09,708      67,0O75    68,428      74,0017    71,793      87,514      70,014      70,014      71,801     70.014      70.14       50.333      5160        50.333
Annoal ScrpIoe                        3,663       4,336       5,359       6,904      7,390       2,270       3,311      -23         4,583    <10,973)       6,021      6.02e       6.740       6,027       6,027     26,002O     24,921      2'. 20'-
Conlative Surpîse                     3,663       7,999      13,358     20,262      27,652      29,927      33,238     33,261      37,844      26.871     32,898      38.920      43,665      49,692     55.719      A1,927    106,6Ï4?'    133.0b,5 1
I]  In conetant pritce  ONERA0 s-oId  perata th.e liveetnck nrketîng cad  eat preeaing fncilittle  f inaned .nder th. Frojent anS be raeponeilhl  for th. drbt  erîete  oenet
Fros Ta.ble iiS
F rom Table 55, eocloding CFA! 36,382 nillion, eee footeete 4; 10 yeere, l0% ist.era  rata1 3 yoar grace perleS on princIpal.
2'correnpoedîng te 90% ci th. etook rote nelle hd6 vill ainly benefit villagere; 90% 0. Iapplied te Inveetment cee te  h.ee  te Table 15, inclodleg 10% fnr phyeical rontingencies.
/Fro: Table 19,
Fro  Table 16, 15 yeare, 10% Ontereet rate, S yeare grace period on principal.
Froc Table 17. aee...n aI-    Ica  for 18 Yeare, 10% intareet rata, S years grace perid os princIpAl.
81  Froc Table 15.
2/  Froc Table 18.
ie  Froc Table 16.
fll Froc Tabla 19.
12/ Tsa  9: cent va; Ye-  .l      . cccconpey.r  CYFA  4 million; enerelaghter lina CFAF 6 million; e-1-rg  1airege CFA! 4 eilIli; rafirgeratsng eqcipnn CFAF 3 mIllion
1/Froc Table 17.
1.4/ Froc Table 00.
s1  g-yt~~ 69c y.esta  mce a           aory iat CFAF 07,000; cn  etatin nago  at CFAF 1,235,000.
0ho,t-te.- ba .. cfr fised leneccete.t, 6 menthe, 10% intereet rate.
cz F40 159,264,000 ho Year 20.
April 27, 1975



ANNEX 7
Table 22
UPPER VOLTA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Protect Unit 1/
Investment Costs
('000 CFAF)
Unit      No. of      --------------------Year---------------------          Total
Cost      Units        1           2          3          4         5         Costs
INVESTMENT CATEGORY
Fixed Investment
Buildings
Staff Houses, Bobo-Dioulasso -         4,000          3      12,000        -          -         -          -         12,000
Staff Bouses, Samorogouan              4,000         *2       8,000        -          -         -          -          8,000
Office Building                        6.ooo           1      6,oo         -          -         -          -6,oo
Sub-total                                               26,000        -          -          -          -        26,000
Furniture and Equipment
Senior Staff Houses                       300         5       1,500        -          -         -          -          1,500
Office Furniture                       2,000          1       2,000        -          -         -          -          2,000
Office Equipment                          300         1         300        -          -         -                       3 300
Sub-total                                                3,800        -          -          -          -         3,800
Vehicles
4-wheel-Drive Vehicle                  2,020          1       2,020        -          -         -          -          2,020
Cars /5                                1,070          3       3,210        -          -         -          -          3,210
Pick-up /5                                920          1        920        -          -         -          -            920
Motorcycle                                 57         2          57        -          -         -          57           114
Sub-total                                                6,207        -          -          -57                  6,264
Total Fixed Investment                                   36o007        -         -          -          5        36.064
Physical Contingencies (10%)                              3,601       -          -          -           5        3,606
Total Fixed Investments                                     608                  -          -          62        n,670
INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS                                           11,881    12,911      18,111    18,111    18,111       79,125
Total Investment                                        51,489    12,911       18,111    18,111   18,173    118,795
1/ Including costs for the crop and community development officer in Samorogouan.
2/ For Project Director and 2 expatriates.
5/ At Samorogouan.
4/ 160 m2 including nine offices, meeting room and toilettes.
5/ 1 for Samorogouan.
6/ 100% of operating costa from Year 1 to Year 5 (Table 23),
April 27, 1975



UPPER VOLTA
ANNEX 7
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                Table 23
Proiect Unit
OperatinR Costa
( 000 CFAF)
Unit       No. of             ------------------ Year ----------------   Total
Cost       Unita                1        2         3          4        5     Cost
OPERATING COSTS
Salaries
Director                                    3,100          1               3,100  3,100    3,100        3,100   3,100   15,500
Counterparts   1/                           2,000          2                  -       -      4,000      4,000   4,000   12,000
Counterpart Accountant                      1,200          1                  -       -      1,200  -  1,200   1,200    3,600
Extension Officers Samorogouan  2/            900          2               1,800  1,800    1,800        1,800   1,800    9,000
Secretary                                     600          1                 600    600        600        600      600    3,000
Typist/Telephonist                            350          2                 700    700        700        700      700    3,500
Drivers                                       240          3                 720    720        720        720      720    3.600
Sub-total                                                            6,920  6.920   12,120    12,120  12,120   50,200
Building and Equipment Maintenance
/3
Buildings               /4                                                    -      650       650        650      650    2,600
Furniture and Equipment                                        ..             -      380       380        380      380    1,520
Sub-total                                                              -    1,030    1,030       1,030   1,030    4,120
Vehicle Operation and Maintenance
4-Wheel-Drive -                               606          1                 606    606        606        606      606    3,030
Cars /6                                       428          3               1,284  1,284    1,284        1,284   1,284    6,420
Pick-up /7                                    414          1                 414    414        414        414      414    2,070
MotorcycTes /8                                 57          1                   57     57        57         57       57       285
Sub-total                               -           -                2,361  2,361    2,361       2,361   2.361   11,805
Office Expenses
Water, Electricity                             -           -                  100    100       100        100      100       500
Postage, Telephone, Cables                     -           -                 500    500        500        500;    500    2,500
General Expenmes                               -           -                 500    500        500        500      500    2.500
Sub-total                               -           -                1.100  1,100    1.100       1.100   1.100    5,500
Travel
Overflights /9                                 -           -                 400    400        400        400      400    2,000
Travel Subsference /10                                     -               1.100  1,100    1,100        1.100   1,100    5,500
Sub-total                               -           -                1.500  1,500    1.500       1.500   1,500    7,500
Total Operating Costs                                 -           -              11,881 12,911   18,111    18,111  18,111   79,125
Total~~~~~ O,eatn  Cot= 
1l To Deputy Director and Civil Engineer/Livestock Specialist.
77  Crop and Community Development Officer.
7Z  2.5% of construction cost; comencing year after development.
/4  102 of investment cost.
/5  30% of purchase price; 20,000 km/year.
/6 407% of purchase price; 20,000 km/year.
77 45% of purchase price; 20,000 km/year.
/8 100% of purchase price; 15,000 km/year..
/g  20 hours per year at CFAF 20,000/h.
/10 200 senior staff days at CFAF 5,000/day; 200 junior staff days at CFAF 500/day.
April 28, l975



UPPER VOLTA                                      JPhiE'X 7
Table 24
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Services
Investment Prolectio
('000 CFAF)
------------------- Year                -------- Total
1            2          3           4          5        Cost
h1;VMTYE2T CATEGORY
Salaries and Allowances   .     ............... 30,000    30,000     30,000     30,000      30,000    150,000
Foreign Training
Graduate Trai  ng    .     .................  3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000        -        12,000
Short Visits         ......................   1,200     1,200       1,200       -           -         3,600
Study Visite       ....................   1000                                  -           -         1000
'uh-Total .5,20                                     4,200       4,200      3,000       -         16,600
Cor'sultancy in Project Preparation L                     4,000       4,000      4,000       4,000     16,000
Local Trairiing / ...........   1,000                      1,000      1,000       -           -         3,000
987
Field Trial                ..................  2,500      2,500      2,500      2,500       2,500     12,500
Proiect 5valuation and Monitoring             -             -         2,000      2,000       2,000      6,000
Cadastral Survey ..............              ; 2,000       2.000      2,000        00        2.000     10.000
Total Cost ...........................  40,700       43,700      45,700     43,500     40,500    214,100
I Training field trials, project monm ormig ana preparaMur.u-
ir2  Deputy Project Manager (Agricultural Economist), Accountant PU ;Group Ranch Center Manager Samorogouan,
CFAF 10,000,000/ specialistlyear .
/3 Four fellowships, each of two yeares duration for overseas training and study for selected graduates in
range management, dairy production, pig production and agricultural economics.
Il' short visite to East Africa of ranch managers and group ranch leaders at CFAF 200 000.
7   Study visits of four week's duration of *2 Senior Voltaic Project Staff at CFAF 500,050.
Z6  Local and expatriate consultants assisting  PU in preparing future livestock projecta, with emphasis on amallholder
livestock development (beef fattening, milk production).
/t Local training of ranch development staff.
/   Studies on  the management of natural pasture, the use of firebreaks, pasture improvement, smalIholder
fattening, etc.
/X Foreign and local oemultancy and study costs.
April 28, 1975



ANNEX 8
UPPER VOLTA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sumary of Pro ject Conte
('000 CPAF)
Total
Year 1            Yeer 2            Year 3            Year 4            Year 5            Project
Period
RANCH DEVELOPMENT
Groop B.c/D.liry Ranches (15,00i ha)
Buildings                                                   35,550            35,550            35,550                -                -             106,650
Fencing & Stock Ilandling Facilities                          9,015           12,189             15,360             6,345             3,171           46,080
Firebreaks & Tracks                                          4,140             4,365             4,590                450               225           13,770
Watering Facilities                                           9,795           41,655            41,655             31,860              -             124,965
Pasture Improvement                                          6,831            20,481             34,131           27,300            13,650           102,393
Vehicles & Equipment                                         24,642           27,717            27,717          .  3,075               -               83,151
Cattle Purchases a                                                             1,380              2,760             2,760             1,380            8,280
Incremental Steer Purchases                                 34,500           103,500           138,000           103,500            34,500           414,000
Other Incremental Working Capital                           10.431            19,845             24.873            14.442             5.028           74.619
Sub-total                                            134.904           266.682           324,636           1B9.732            57.954           973,908
Croup Ranch Developsent Center SaoroEouan
Buildings                                                   42,800               -                                   -                 -              42,800
Fencing and Stock Handling Facilities                         2,294                                                                                     2,294
Tirebreaks and Tracks                                           318                       -                          -                 -                  318
Water & Electricity                                          4,600              2,400              -                 -                 -                7 000
Pasture Iaprovements                                           412                824              -                 -                                  1 l 236
Vehicles & Equips.ent                                       28,099               -                 -                 -                 _               28,099
Studies                                                     10.400                                          -                                         10,400
lacremental Cattle Purchases                                   .460               920                               1-                _                 ,380
other Incremiental Working Capital                          11 013            11 744              6.652              -                                 29.409
Sub-total                                           100,396            15.888             6,652           --                                  122.936
Total Ranch Developmsent                                       235.3O            282.570           331288            189732              7.954         106.844
VETERINARY SERVICE
Bulildings & Structures                                     28,100            60,200            21,600                                               109,900
Vehicles                                                    13,476             6,849               -                 -                 -               20,325
Equipient                                                    7,160             6,050              2 260              -                 -               15,470
Incremental Operating Costs                                 16,713            21.270            24041                                                  62024
Total Veterinary Service                                        65,449            94,369            47.901              -                 _              207,719
LIVESTOCR MRKETING & S SI    NT PROCSSTG
Livestock. Marketing
Stock Routes                                                  -               54,625               -                 -                 -              54,625
Holding Ground - Bobo-Dioulasso (6,000 ha)                     -              19,510               -                 -                 -              19,510
Livestock Market - Bobo-Dioulaaso                             -               31.645               _                 _                 _              31,645
Slb-total                                              -              105780-                                -                 -              105,780
Ment Processing
Civil Construction                                            -                 7,720              -                 -                 -                7,720
Machinery & Equip.sent                                         -               25,635              _                                                   25,635
Consulting Engineering                                        -                6.671 ~             -                                   -               6,671
Sub-total                                           -                  4O2-                                  -                 _ 2626
Total Livestock Marketing and Meat Proceassing                    -             145.806                                                                  145,806
PROJECI UNIT
Buildings                                                   26,000              -                  -                 _                 _              26.000
Furnituire & Equîipment                                       3,E00              -                 -                 -                 -                3,800
Vehicles                                                     6,207               -                 -                 -                   57            6,264
Incremental Oporating Costa                                 11,881            12.911            18,111             18.111            18.111           79,125
Total Project Lnit                                                               12,911            18,111            18.111            18,168           115,189
TECIONICAL SERVICES                                               40,70             43,700            45,700            43,500            40,500           214,100
TOTAL                                                          389,337           579,356           443,000           251,343           116,622         1,779,658
Physical Contingencies                                      26,364             36,547            18,562             7,179             1,847            90,499
Price Contingencies                                         79.989           202.461           200.989           146,783             81.018          711.240
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                            495_690            818364           662.551           405.305           199.487         2.581.397
April 28, 1975



ANNEX 9
UPPER VOLTA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                        Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                              at End of Quarter
(US$ '000)
1975/1976
March 31, 1976                                 200
June 30, 1976                                  400
1976/1977
September 30, 1976                             800
December 31, 1976                            1,700
March 31, 1977                               2,300
June 30, 1977                               2,900
1977/1978
September 30, 1977                          3,400
December 31, 1977                           3,800
March 31, 1978                              4,800
June 30, 1978                               5,300
1978/1979
September 30, 1978                          5,800
December 31, 1978                           6,300
March 31, 1979                              7,100
June 30, 1979                               7,500
1979/1980
September 30, 1979                          7,800
December 31, 1979                           8,100
March 31, 1980                              8,400
June 30, 1980                               8,600
1980/1981
September 30, 1980                          8,800
December 31, 1980                           9,000
May 8, 1975



LI,VERTOCr OBVRLOFHYBT FROJECT
Ficar  ---a Fnaia1 Rata cf Ruht.-
('000 CFAF)
Bel           -----------------------------   ---------------------------------------------------------  --------------------------------------------------------------_----_____--------------_--__--____----____----___--_____----__--__--------_----_---_______
Deeelnp   t       1           2           3           4           S           6           7           8           9          10          11          12          13           14          IS          16          17          18           19          20
srOcn,  tarO/nairF Ranch (15,OOO ha)
In o}ca                                           10,468         9,426      32 028      49,874      51,287      56,541      59,637      62,431      66,320      69,244      70,517      71,988      73,662      74,590      74,697      74,697       7469        74,697      74,697      74,697         153 702
opatins Cesa                                       2,933         19,067     37 664      39,705      41,045      41,371      42,561      4,780       43,0                                 3,430      43,436      43,436       43,436     43,436       4436        43,436      43,436      43.436          4343
Fixed RIn tunt-                                                 32 990      19 567       6,756        -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -            -           -                 -           -           -              -
Oncruauneul Ft=a=c1a1 nunefit.                        -        (50,i662    (32,736)     (3,413)      2,707       7,635       9,541      12,116      15,705      18,567      09,692      21,023      22,691      23,619      23,326      23,726        23,726     23,726      23,326      23,726        l9,731
=tacr encel Ficacclal Rata cf Ruante  13.11%         -                        -                                                                                              -              t    13-71  -7-
/2
Goc, uatee/R'atrc Ratch (15,000 FR)
Occeet                                            10,468         9,426      32,028      49674       5127        56451       19637       62431       66,329      69,244      70,12       71,98       73,662      74,590      74,697      74,697      74,697       74,697      74 697      74,697          .371
Operannti  Ceutu                                     295        11,343      30,544      32,985      34 035      34,171      35,241      35 340      35,400      35,442      35,5        35,510      35,516      35,516        35,516    35,516      35 516       35,516        35,516    35.516          35 516
FiOed It}nte                                         -          32 990      19,S67       6,756                                                        -                                          -          -            -           -           -           -           -                   -
Onceectnl Fîcanctal tunafînu                          -         (49,086)    (29,258)        42       7,077      12,105      14,221      16,916      20,703      23,627      24,852      26,303      27,971      28,899      29,006      29,006       29,006      29,006      29,006      29,V96         î98,oîi
lecreYnunal FLtanalal Onat cf Relcîn  12.94L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
ROpue                                          1,790,860     1,70860   1,740,664   1,795,843   1,86,30   1,937,66   2,046,242   2,4 9 7          2,093,962   2,120,867   2,129,4   2,131,916   2, 96   2,131,916   2,031,1 6   2,131,916   2,131,916   2,13î,916   2,031,916   21,2,1679113
prnCo cu-                                    388,369      406,056     411,815    412, 132     410,6B8     416,708    418,904      41903929    36s,059      368,077    3516,26 30158830,4      3668.084    368,984     360,084      362,0044e3684904 368,94084,6*368.904
FîntO  îccaatauct                                     -         53,610      800409      26,246        -           .           -           -           -           -           _           -           _           _            _           _           _           _           _           _               _
Icccuwetau  Faceciatl Iccafîce    /3                 _          (31,287)    (24 ,85)    30,994     120,671     198,687     306,787     316,162     408,432     432,319     440,603      443,361    443,361     443,361     443,361     443,361      443 361     443,361     443,361     443,361      1.38557
Occcrepttal fl=euclel  gttu cf Reette  31.1 R12                                                                                                                   ------                                                                                                                      
OFR2t 0,îeuectok etrlt rtInn
Inaac                                                                       18 0,285    2920        20,220      20,605      21,440      21,5        21,Î20      21,635      21,570      21,735      21,735      21.735      20,335       21,335      21,735      21,3        21,335      21,335          21 735
Ope_tat C_euR4                                                               4 _6          613       o,Ooo        6639       8 670      2 675        î,c77       8,677       0669       286757       36757       8 677       8 677       8 677        8 67         7677      28L 677      8677            8.677
Fixed 1I.-sp                                         _            _         79 976                    -           -           -                       -           -           _           _           _                                                    
ancrepta1 tîtenanel F  tectu -fi                                   -        (66,503)    11,667      11,612      12,166      12,750      12,880      13c038      12,990      12,901      13,058      13,058      13,058      13,058       13,058      13,058      13,058      13,058      13,058          13,0
ttaae,uucal Fleencial Rtut  cf Ruae  17. t11                                                                      -
0R700 Meut F..cceuann
4ecce                                                        2,38,166    39,910     41 739       43466d 46 678          47,793      50,019      52,355      54,806      54,806      54,806       S4806       546806      54,806      54,o6       54,026       54806       04,806  54,8      606
crertîe Oute                                         -      -               33,947      34,040      35,591      36,s21      37 350      38,219      39,565      40,649      41,656      41,656      41,656      41 656      41,656      41,656       41,656      41,656      41,656      41,656          41,66
F.Ia,                                                                       44eann  - - ,029  .                                                 -                                                     -51,5  176 1,5           -310                                           3 -~        -3   0 
Firacce    Pl d ic   BI a tpr                                               (39,010)     5,070       6,148       7,139       8,328       9,576      12,444      11,704      03,150      13,150      13,150       13,150      13,150                  13,150      13,150      13,159      R3,150          13,050
occruutaul Fînencînl BIa- cf cran  01.507-,-
My      Ince9 ceatl herd cama.
/2 nsectndangaluluuae =dnncaae cf hecdnc ncpd ncuklalîad lubTeec ehich ara rcucriaud tant ucyR hurdnecnca frona cpaecnti cneta
2j Aoîetesalnp oftpeu.a.naheadu, gRanpaunchua ad veaerlaînuayrnlca
/46 Incîndua Sso cf nauruti= Itet onn f hucd cffIIe,
70 Tenaîdea 50% cf fixed lanaueetnr cnutu cf hend etftace
T go% oftcheaanockanntu =ellu hava baeeneeclnded, e thay _iulcî paofit vill ae =uoe bOnu hutflîa ara tnt Inaln,td.
h'uy 2, 19715



U1PP'ER VOL.TA
LIVESTOCK DEVELPMEN  PROJEOT
<'000 tROP)
1            2          3          4            I            6            7           a            9          10         il            12          13           14          15           16          17         18             19          20
Inflos
2/
IDA C-îdit                            329,234       466,820   340,680   189,322         93,430                            -           -          -             -           -                                           --------- 
BND Loin Repynat  3/                     3,271       12,773    26,514    38,262         43,779       45,056        03,069    95.069        95,069      95,069    95,069         95,069      95,069       95,069      95,069       95,069      95.069    95,069           --
Ranch Cente' 10.,  R.p.ynet  4/           -            -           -          -           -           8,721         8,721      8,721        8.721       8,721       8.721        8,721       8,721        8,721       8.721        8,721       8,721      8.721          8,721       8.721
R.Ipaynet ONERA T,oa.                                 6.200    12.401    12,401         12,401       12,401        2,181l    20,181        20,18       20. 181    20,181        20,181      20,181       20.181      20,181       20,181       -           -             -           -
Reenafao  T ... tin                28.480       60.064    54.421    49.534         49.221       4117          4.10       42.973       43,794       44.427    44.571        44.617      44,769       44.823      44.846       44.649      44.849    44.849          44.949    44.849
Total I0610e                       360.985       545,857   434.016   289.519    198.831          107.325      166.080   166.944        167.765    168.398   168, 542        168.588    168.740      168.794    168.817    168.820    148.639   148.639               53.570    53.570
Ootflon
Loa,  t088 ND                          118,936      226,605   273,067   154,130         46,461         -            -          -            -           -           -            -           -            -           -----
Ranch Conter L.-    7                  108,828       15.290      6,652        -           -            -            -          ---                                  -------                                                                              -                  
Grant.1 Bobo-Dionleeso 0RD  8/          70,323      101,679    50.287         -                        -            -          -----------                                                                                                                                           -
Oeilt Conetrnti.o  Or-t         0/        -          36,382        -                      --                        -          ---                                  ----                                          - ------
Lcoto ONERA                               -         124,005        -          -           --                        -          ---                                  --                                    -------
Proet Unt        1/51.489                            12,911    18.111    18,111         18,173         --                                   --                      ----------
T.Ch. iral SerI-e   il/                 40,700       43,700    45.700    43,500         40.500         -            -                                         -                  -           -            -           ---                                                --
D.bt Servira
Servic  Charge   12/                  1,235        4,220      7.248      9,236      10,293        10,646       10,646    10,646         10.646      10,646    10,540         10,4364     10,328      10,222       10.116      10,010        9.904      9,798          9,692      9,586
PlrIncip.1al                     -                        -          -         -       -                  -         -      -             -           -         14.195        14.195      14.195      14.195       14.195      14.195      14.195    14.195           14.195    14.195
Total Otîfln                         391.511    564.792   401.065   224,977    115.429            10,646       10.646    10,646         10,64,6    11.646       475         2.2          24,523      24.417       24.311      24.205      24.099    23.993           23.887    233711
Ao..oaî Sorp v-                        (30,526)     (18,935>  (32.951)   64.542         83,402       96,679      155,434   156,298        157.119    157,752   143,807         143,959    144,217    144.3717    144,506    144,615    124.340   124,646                29,683    29.789
Cnoletiv î Onaplos                     (30,526)     <49,461)  (82,412)  (17.870)    65,532          162,211      317,645   473,943        631.062    788,814   932,621   1.076,580  1,220,797  1,365.174  1.509,680  1,654,295  1,778.835 1,903,481                  1.933,164 1,062,953
1,    n  ontant tern  Saithont prica coatlngen..ai..
2/ Incl.dea physicil cnlgni.
Se. f..tnote 6, tao  16 y.-r.; 6 ya«seta gena  md internt 5.57.
4/   S.. footnota 7; tem  20 y.-.e; 5 yiss-  grcs ...        .taerat rata.
5/ Inrl.dos:  taxa  conrised fa i-vt-tao  am  osat    coite (cattle te ie icclod.d 4n opeaiting cnta cf G-op Racrhai md .-.e,nl harde  f Vet-ilnaay  .evce;eport tx of 3.5%.o  holf th. value cf Ir                                           nalproduction  f rettle.
To  h-ennl i-veit-.t fonda for Crop R ..che..
7/   I-vet-it coite of th. G-op RocevopntConter; a..ra -A   7, Table 0.
8/ Inveiltet co.ste  f Vetarinary Servira; .ai .nA-   7. Tehle 14.
9 , 0%   f stock r-te -il   niln-tnt coins..
Oie. Anoc 7, Table 22.
Se. Ann- 7, Table 24.
12 3/4 ci 3. oni eot                 -abasdm   ontstending.
Maey 6, 1975



ANNEX 12
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
1.        The economic rate of return shown in Table 1 is based on the follow-
ing assumptiofs:
(a) Project life is 20 years.
(b)  All prices are based on end-of-1974 market conditions.
(c)  Production of cattle and milk are valued at prices paid to producers.
(d)  The economic benefits resulting from improved livestock marketing and
meat processing are equal to tlhe financial benefits. The value of
existing marketing and meat processing facilities is deducted from
the stream of benefits, in the form of an annual compensation paid
to the Bobo-Dioulasso Municipal.ity.
(e)  All project operating and investment coste are included in the caleu-
lations, except those which are not directly related to the project,
consisting of:
-    90% of the investments in stock route wells which will mainly
benefit rural comxunities not involved in the project;
-    investment costs (two houses and vehicles) and operating costs
(salaries, building and vehicle maintenance) of two extension
officers in the Project Unit because their activities benefit
other projects, and
-    technical service costs weich would benefit future projects,
with the exception of the Group Ranch Development Centers'
Manager, the accountant and the civil engineer (for 3 years).
(f)  Foreign exchange costs are valued at the prevailing exchange rate
(CFAF 225   US$1).
(g) Investment costs include physical contingencies.
(h)  The economic cost of family lator (herdsmen's labor in the communal herds
reached by the Veterinary Service, herdsments and unskilled labor
in the Group Beef/Dairy ranches) is valued at half the value of
prevailing wage rates to reflect the poor possibilities of alter-
native employment in Upper Volta.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
(i)  Taxes and duties other than income taxes have been excluded on the
following basis:
Civil works               13%
Salaries & wages
(excluding family labor) 15%
Civil work maintenance   13%
Vehicle running costa    40%
2.        Based on these assumptions, the project's economic rate of return is
28%. The effect on the rate of return of increasing and reducing costs and bene-
fits is:
Economic Rate of Return
(z)
Costs increased by 10%                                24
Costs increased by 20%                                21
Benefits reduced by 10%                               24
Benefits reduced by 20%                               19
Costs increased by 10% & benefits
reduced by 10%                                  20
Costs increased by 20% & benefits
reduced by 20%                                  13
February 22, 1975



LrvESToCR DrVELOP>EIT PROJECT
îEZor-nio Rate of Retuot
('000 GTAF)
1         2         3          4         5          6          7         8          9         10           Il           12           13          14           15           26           27           18          12           2a
Increueasî Oece! Bit.
Cattle . d Milk P-oductton
?actl  5evelcp,ct                      (1,606)   69,674   190,452   316,035   389,574   418,863   452,295   481.632   510,453    534,696          551,700      564,954     577,188      585.315      588.420      588,741      588.741      588,741      580.741  2.9         72
Vcterfcery Service                        -      30,960    84,060   145,724   218,788   283.510   329.296   364,990   390,138    397,394          199,728      399,728      399,728     399,728      394,728      394.728      199.728      589,726      399.77F   1.270,902, 7
recressea Ltve,tock 6 tHast Value
ILvemîcelk Slcîkeîlug                     -      10,285    20,260    20.220    20,805    21.420    21,555    21,720    21.675         21.570       21,735       21,735      21,735       21,735       21,735       21.735       21,735       21.735       21,739      21.735
Mteat p-cceaa2ug                          _      38.166    390910    4L739    43.660    45678    47.795    50.019    52,355           54.806         54,806      854,06                  3            54.816          806        54.806 5448n6                         5 4,ta6
Total I-e-tal  Befita             <1,6066  157,085   334,702   5237718   672,827   769,471 750,941   918,3 61 974,621 t  008_466   1 027 969   1L4.L.23   1,053,457   1,C061.584   1,n04.9    - _5                      2.65,nto    29655         12 i,n65,nln0  7 _5225,?87
ncreertal co.te  /L
Osoolo Oavelcoteot
Ftxed Snve.trsnts                     168,824   145,175   159,726    70,545    18,206        -          -                                -           -            -                         .           .            -            -                         -            -
Op.r tiog C.t.t                        57,019   160,802   257,064   730,023   313,892   319,478   323.654   327,839   328,856    329.831          330.518      331.073      331,343     331.32      531.352 131,1     52      331.352      331.352      131,352      311.15?
7t1ud Iîvstsents                      49,081    68,592    23,101        -         -          -          -                                                         -                                                               -            -            -            -
O9ecstIng Coats                       14,750    19,534    23,475    23,513    23,260    23,320    23.340    23,340    23.340          23.340       23.340       23.340       23,340      21.340       73.340       23.140       23.340       21.34n       21,349(      71.342
Liveat.ok M-rketig
71usd IlvastctC/2                       3 447    75,847                                 -          -          -          -           -                 -                                    -                               -                        -
Operating Cosst ,3                     12929      4.293      7,502     7,497      7.529     7.559      7.,64     7,571      7.566      7.558        7,566        7.566        7,566        7.566       7.56t        7.,66        7.5ti        7.566        7,5s6        7.5,60
lteat Proceeeis
91usd lîStaene5  /2                     3,447    42,924       -         _-                                                               -         17.00                             -                               -            -            -            -
Op.rstig Costce  1                      1,929    25,775    26,245    26,696    27,254    27,752    28,273    28,821    29,471         30.076       30.016       30.at6       30,9t6       30,0t6      50,216       70.r 16      51o,016      59.0146      59O .226     50.9h,s.
teoJect Uit
71usd lucostetent                      14.242                                 -         -          -               -                     -           -            -                                            -                                            -
OpeISting Costs                       43.614      8,176    12,596    12,596    12,596
Tec4nlcsl Serv-ies
0p9rs-tts Ccct.                       25.500    25.500    25 500    177000    17.000         -          -                                             - -      - - _           _
Totad Increcentel Cee           383.7821  576 618   535.209   464  79   419.,737       378.109   382.831   387.571   389,z33    390805       408,40         391,995   392,265    39_274 4 __  774   _13274                5 774   , 392. 74         39,z274     397974
îeuceue.cla 5t BIstfit                   (385,3882 (419,533) (200,507)   58,848   253.090   391,362   468,110   530,790   585,388    617,661          629.529      649.228      6014,92     t09,11r      f7.4l5       O'.', -0.       ?.7I7h    77,'50       032,730   «.11  12
Rlt. of Rertn, 27.905.
/1  Tusledas  ctrnera- to1 hard csl,.s
7I lcludas 50% cf  -cveate,st coata of 0NJgRA - Bobc-l2ssc hadqo.arttr*.
I.ncudes 507. cf  tparaîlcg comte of 0f NER   - B.bo-D01o...s. hesdqi..rter.c






UPPER VOLTA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Organization Chart
Ministry of Planning,
Rural Dev(elomn
Environment anTors
1~~
Management
;
lOODiUasso                                 Dedou,gou                               Live toxck
ORO                        and '~~~~~Meat P oesn
andnvestmen
mroup Ranch                    Veterinary                     Veterin ry                                                 Meat P
Deve omnt Center                     service                        Service                        c    aktn           L1                 11
| Group Ranches       |
Worid Bank-9608(R)
February 24, 1975






IBRD    11456
FESRUARY 1795
-                                     ~~~~~UPPER VOLTA
I  GEf:R               LIVESTOCK  DEVELOPMENT PRQJECT
GA                     rII9EB      rN
VOLTAe
GU9SS    GuINEA       r
COAST ~ 
4         ~~~PROJECT AREA
PROJECT STOCK ROUTES
O  LARGE HOLDING GROUND,E3OBO-DIOULASSO
U  LIVESTOCK MARKET
ABSATOIF                                                                                        U
NEW VETERiNAHY POSTS                                                                                                       ÉNC
NEW VETERINARY SECTORS
VETERINARY CIRCUMSCRIPETIONKEMA
GROUP RANCH DEVELOPMENT AREA,    '             ras
--DEPAI4TMEN-T BOUNDARIESa 
CERCLE BOUNDARIES                              oms,
NATIONAL ROAOS                        '10 o~-     as,
DISTRICT ROADS                             ~Iv,   ON
OTHER RIOADS                            Be
-,--I-IRAILROADS                                                                                          1dr
ISOHYET's in rm.-                   /     IOEDOUGOU
-.-INTERNATIONAL EOUNDARIES              ko,              asb 
Kamana                                    T
O      25      50    7,5    100  .Kouh <-
K~L0METER3                      .'f,aoy                            os
Sikanso~~~~~~~~~~ad
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   
SOrti  ,tiO. ~i  i 
BOIJAOKRADIBEguou ol



