CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 557 UV
Development Credit
Agreement
(Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 18, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 557 UV
Development Credit
Agreement
(Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 18, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 18, 1975, between REPUBLIC OF UPPER
VOLTA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has established as autonomous agency the Office
National de l'Exploitation des Resources Anirnales (hereinafter called ONERA),
for the purpose inter alia of consolidating in a single national body activities in
livestock marketing and meat processing; said Agency will have certain
responsibilities in relation to the maintenance of the equipment and facilities
procured under Parts C and D of the Project, as hereinafter provided and for said
purpose the Borrower has agreed to relend to ONERA a portion of the proceeds
of the Credit and to lend to ONERA additional funds required for the purpose,
in accordance with arrangements acceptable to the Association as hereinafter
provided;
(C)   Part A(l) of the Project will be carried out with the assistance of
Banque Nationale de Developpement (hereinafter called BND), and as part of such
assistance, the Borrower has agreed to relend to BND a portion of the proceeds
of the Credit, and to lend to BND additional funds, in accordance with the
provisions of a subsidiary loan agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and BND and as hereinafter provided;
(D)   The BND has agreed to relend the amounts lent to it in accordance
with Recital (C), and to lend certain additional funds out of its own resources,
to groups participating in the group ranches to be established under Part A(1)
of the Proje6t;
(E)   The Borrower has agreed to make available to the Project Unit to
be established for purposes of the Project (hereinafter called PU), as a grant, a
portion of the proceeds of the Credit, and certain additional funds, to assist in
the financing of wells required for Part C(4) of the Project, as hereinafter provided;
(F)   The Borrower has agreed to make available to its Dedougou O.R.D.
and its Bobo-Dioulasso O.R.D., as a grant, a portion of the proceeds of the Credit,


﻿4
and certain additional funds, to assist in the financing of the veterinary services
to be provided under Part B of the Project, as hereinafter provided;
(G) The Borrower has agreed to relend to its Bobo-Dioulasso O.R.D. a
portion of the proceeds of the Credit, and to lend to its said O.R.D. certain
additional funds, to assist in the financing of the investments required for the
Group Ranch Development Center to be established under Part A(2) of the Project,
as hereinafter provided;
(H)   The Borrower has agreed to make available to PU, a portion of the
proceeds of the Credit, and certain additional funds, to cover the costs of PU
and the costs of Part E of the Project;
(I)   The Borrower proposes to authorize a treasury overdraft (avance de
tresorerie) for PU in an amount of CFAF60 million and, in accordance with the
provisions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, a treasury overdraft (avance de
tresorerie) of CFAF60 million for BND, to prefinance the investment costs of the
Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Area" means an   area of about 58,000 km2 in the west of
the territory of the Borrower, comprising the areas covered by the O.R.D.s of
Dedougou and Bobo-Dioulasso;


﻿5
(b)   "Group Ranch Development Area" means an area of about 300,000
hectares surrounding the village of Samorogouan, about 100 km west of
Bobo-Dioulasso, bordered on the east by the Black Volta River and on the west
by the Republic of Mali, in which the Group Ranches are to be established;
(c)   "Group Ranch" means any of the group ranches to be established
under Part A(l) of the Project;
(d)   "Group  Ranch Development Center" means the center to be
established under Part A(2) of the Project;
(e)   "Group Ranch Statute" means a statut agreed to by the members of
a Participating Group pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 29-63 AN dated
July 24, 1963, and providing for the establishment of Group Ranches in the Group
Ranch Development Area, and defining the rights and obligations of the members
of a Group Ranch.
(f)  the  letters  "O.R.D."   mean   an   'Organisme  R9gional  de
Developpement", an organisme d'intgret public established under the laws of the
Borrower pursuant to Law No. 20/65/AN of July 28, 1965;
(g)   "Project O.R.D." means the O.R.D. of Dedougou and the O.R.D. of
Bobo-Dioulasso established by the Borrower's Decree No. 103 PRES.DEV.T, dated
March 14, 1966 and Decree No. 70-251 PRES/AGRI-EL dated October 13, 1970,
respectively;
(h)  the letters "ONERA" mean the Borrower's Office National de
l'Exploitation des Resources Animales, an autonomous agency ("office") of the
Borrower established and operating under the Borrower's Ministry of Planning,
Rural Development and     Tourism, pursuant to    the  Borrower's Decree
No. 75-139 PRESAN, dated April 17, 1975, and includes any successor thereto;
()  the letters "BND" mean the Banque Nationale de Diveloppement of
the Borrower, established pursuant to Law No. 6/61/AN of January 23, 1961,
and includes any successor thereto;
0)    "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement between the
Borrower and BND referred to in Section 3.05(e) of this Agreement, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time with the approval of the Association;
(k) the letters "PU" mean the Project Unit referred to in Section 3.02
of this Agreement;


﻿6
(1)   "Participating Group" (groupe d'exploitant) means any of the groups
of pastoralist families and crop farmers, consisting each of about 35 pastoralist
families and about 150 crop farming families owning livestock, participating in
a Group Ranch;
(m) "Group Ranch Development Loan" means a loan made or proposed
to be made by BND to a Participating Group, with the guarantee of the Borrower,
to finance investments for a Group Ranch, in accordance with the operating policies
and procedures set forth or referred to in Section 3.15 of and Schedule 5 to this
Agreement, and to be financed in part out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(n)   "PU Project Director" means the person referred to by that name in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(o)   "PU Assistant Director - Agro-economist" means the person referred
to by that name in Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(p)   "PU Civil Engineer" means the person referred to by that name in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(q)   "PU Accountant" means the person referred to by that name in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(r)   "PU Livestock Specialist" means the person referred to by that name
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(s)   "Development Center Manager" means the Manager of the Group
Ranch Development Center;
(t)   "Policy and Steering Committee" means the Committee referred to
by that name in Section 3.21 to this Agreement;
(u)   the letters "CFAF" mean the Franc de la Communaute Financidre
Africaine, the common currency of the Borrower and the other members of the
West African Monetary Union;
(v)   "Local Steering Committee" means the Committee referred to in
paragraph A(l)(a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
(w)   "Group Ranch Committee" means the committee referred to in
paragraph A(3) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.


﻿7
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million dollars ($9,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing
October 15, 1985, and ending April 15, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 15, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿8
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be carried out the
Project through its departments and agencies referred to in Sections 3.02 and 3.04
of this Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate agricultural, administrative and financial practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, for the
purpose of providing overall management and co-ordination for the carrying out
of the Project, the Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain within its
Ministry of Planning, Rural Development and Tourism, a Project Unit, to be located
in Bobo-Dioulasso, having such organization, powers and responsibilities as are set
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and shall provide the PU with such funds,
facilities and other resources, and a suitably qualified staff, all as shall be required
to enable the PU to efficiently carry out its functions.
(b)   Except as the Association      shall otherwise agree, candidates for
appointment to the positions of (i) PU Project Director, (ii) PU Assistant Director
- Agro-Economist, (iii) PU Civil Engineer, (iv) PU Accountant, and (v) PU Livestock
Specialist, shall have qualifications and experience, and shall be appointed upon
terms and conditions, satisfactory to the Association, and counterpart personnel
shall be appointed after the Association shall have received a reasonable opportunity
to comment on the proposed candidate for the said appointments.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall take all necessary steps to ensure that no investment plans shall be financed
under the Project unless such plans have been evaluated and approved by PU as
to their technical, financial and economic viability.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
(i) shall carry out Part A of the Project through its Bobo-Dioulasso O.R.D., with
credit for the necessary investments for Part A(1) to be provided through BND
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.05(e) of, and Schedule 6 to, this
Agreement; (ii) shall carry out Part B of the Project through its Bobo-Dioulasso
and Dedougou O.R.D.s; and (iii) shall carry out Parts C and D of the Project
through PU, all in accordance with the operating policies and procedures set forth
or referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time with the agreement of the Association.


﻿9
Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the Borrower's obligations referred
to in Section 3.01, or in paragraph (a) of Section 3.02, the Borrower shall, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree:
(a)   make available to the PU, as required over the Project implementation
period, as a grant, out of the proceeds of the Credit to the extent of the allocation
therefor, and such additional funds as may be required to meet the costs of PU
and the costs of Part E of the Project, estimated to amount in the aggregate to
the equivalent of about $2,000,000 including contingencies;
(b)   make available to the Project O.R.D.s, as required over the Project
implementation period, as a grant, out of the proceeds of the Credit to the extent
of the allocation therefor, and such additional funds as may be required to enable
the Project O.R.D.s to meet the expenditures for the veterinary services to be
provided under Part B of the Project, estimated to amount in the aggregate to
the equivalent of about $1,300,000 including contingencies;
(c)   make available to the Bobo-Dioulasso O.R.D., as required over the
Project implementation period, as a loan without interest and repayable over 20
years including five years of grace, out of the proceeds of the Credit to the extent
of the allocation therefor, and such additional funds as may be required to meet
the costs over the Project implementation period of the Group Ranch Development
Center, estimated to amount in the aggregate to the equivalent of about $700,000
including contingencies;
(d)   make available to ONERA, as required over the Project implementation
period, as a grant, out of the proceeds of the Credit to the extent of the allocation
therefor, and such additional funds as may be required to cover 90% of the costs
of construction of wells for purposes of Part C(4) of the Project, estimated to
amount in the aggregate to the equivalent of about $200,000 including
contingencies (with the remaining 10% of said costs to be financed in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (f) of this Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
(e)   lend to BND, under a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower
and BND in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, out of the proceeds
of the Credit to the extent of the allocations therefor, and such additional funds
as may be required, at an interest rate of 5-1/2% per annum, for a term of eighteen
(18) years including six (6) years of grace, to meet the costs of the investments
to be financed for purposes of Part A(1), of the Project, other than the portion
of the costs of such investments which BND has agreed to finance out of its own
resources, which amount so to be lent to BND is estimated at the equivalent of
about $6,200,000, and which amount BND has agreed to finance out of its own


﻿10
resources is estimated at the equivalent of about $1,100,000 in each case including
contingencies. The Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall include, without limitation,
such other terms and conditions as are set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement,
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the
Association; and
(f)   lend and relend to ONERA, under arrangements satisfactory to the
Association, out of the proceeds of the Credit to the extent of the allocations
therefor and such additional funds as may be required to (i) meet the costs of
the investments to be undertaken for purposes of Parts C(1), (2) and (3) of the
Project, and to meet 10% of the costs of the investments to be undertaken for
purposes of Part C(4) of the Project, at an interest rate of 10% per annum for
a term of fifteen (15) years including five (5) years of grace for payment of interest
and principal, estimated to amount in the aggregate to the equivalent of about
$500,000 including contingencies; and (ii) to meet the costs of the investments
to be undertaken for purposes of Part D of the Project, at an interest rate of
10% per annum, for a term of fifteen (15) years including five (5) years of grace
for payment of interest and principal, estimated to amount in the aggregate to
the equivalent of about $300,000, including contingencies. The said arrangements
shall include, inter alia that ONERA shall make available to PU, as and when needed,
the funds so relent and lent to it by the Borrower, in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph (f) of this Section 3.05 of this Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association, to assist in the carrying
out of Part E(3) of the Project and in the preparation of detailed plans and tender
documents for the facilities included in Part D of the Project.
Section 3.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall maintain ONERA, for the purpose inter alia of maintaining the equipment
and facilities under Part C and Part D of the Project.
Section 3.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall (i) cause to be transferred to ONERA, promptly after the completion of
the works to be carried out under Parts C and D of the Project, the ownership


﻿11
and management of the existing holding ground at Bobo-Dioulasso, the existing
Bobo-Dioulasso municipal livestock market, and municipal slaughter; (ii) not license
or permit to be licensed within the Bobo-Dioulasso municipality or within a radius
of 20 km from Bobo-Dioulasso (A) any livestock marketing facility or operation
other than the Bobo-Dioulasso livestock market to be managed by ONERA; and
(B) any slaughterhouse or slaughter facility or operation other than the
Bobo-Dioulasso slaughterhouse to be managed by ONERA; (iii) take all necessary
steps to enable ONERA to charge and collect marketing and slaughter fees sufficient
to cover its investment and operating costs in relation to its facilities constructed
under the Project and located in the Bobo-Dioulasso and Dedougou O.R.D's; (iv)
cause the municipality of Bobo-Dioulasso to renounce (A) all marketing taxes
presently levied and its right to levy marketing taxes in the future; and (B) all
slaughter fees presently levied and its right to levy slaughter fees in the future.
Section 3.10. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall, through its Department of Livestock and Animal Industry (Services de
l'Elevage et des Industries Animales) of its Ministry of Planning, Rural Development
and Tourism, take all necessary steps to ensure the maintenance of proper standards
of hygiene in the Bobo-Dioulasso slaughterhouse included under Part D of the
Project.
Section 3.11. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause to be carried out, through its Bobo-Dioulasso O.R.D., an
integrated development program in the Group Ranch Development Area, including
the development of crop farming and the provision of rural infrastructure (roads,
schools, dispensaries, wells, etc.), and shall provide or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction upon the Borrower's obligations
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 3.11, for the purposes of said paragraph
(a), the Borrower shall provide or cause to be provided to the Group Ranch
Development Center, a community development officer and an agriculturalist, and
shall cause its Bobo-Dioulasso O.R.D. to allocate not less than nine extension
officers to assist on a full-time basis crop farmers in the Group Ranch Development
Area.
Section 3.12. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, candidates for
appointment to the position of Development Center Manager shall have
qualifications and experience, and shall be appointed upon terms and conditions,
satisfactory to the Association.


﻿12
Section 3.13. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall, on or before December 31, 1976, submit to the Association for its approval,
and thereafter carry out, a plan for Project evaluation and monitoring.
Section 3.14. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall, on or before December 31, 1976, submit to the Association for its approval,
and thereafter carry out, a plan for recovering, the full costs of veterinary
vaccination services provided under Part B of the Project, from the beneficiaries
of the services provided.
Section 3.15. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall take all necessary steps to ensure that no Ranch Development Loan is made
unless the following conditions have been satisfied:
(i)         a Group Ranch Statute in form and substance satisfactory to
the Association has been approved by all necessary governmental
action, and is in full force and effect in relation to the Group
Ranch for which the Ranch Development Loan is proposed;
(ii)        the ranch area for the Group Ranch has been surveyed and
demarcated;
(iii)       the members of the Participating Group have been selected and
have agreed to participate;
(iv)        a long-term lease has been given guaranteeing to the Participating
Group the exclusive use of the land allocated to it, for a term
of at least 50 years; and
(v)         the rights and obligations of the Participating Group as defined
in the Group Ranch Statute have been agreed to by the group
members.
Section 3.16. The Borrower shall take all necessary steps to ensure the
implementation of a staffing plan for the Project O.R.D.s in respect of the provision
of veterinary services, as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.17. In order to assist the Samorogouan Group Ranch Development
Center in carrying out pedological and sociological studies the Borrower shall cause
the Bobo-Dioulasso O.R.D. to employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Association.


﻿13
Section 3.18. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or cause to be insured
or make or cause to be made adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.19. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promItly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.20. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Association, upon
request, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association
that such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.
Section 3.21. For the purpose of providing policy direction to the PU and
coordinating the activities of the departments and agencies of the Borrower having
responsibilities with respect to the Project, the Borrower shall establish and maintain
a Policy and Steering Committee including as its members, the Directors of
Livestock, Agricultural Services, and Plan of the Ministry of Planning, Rural
Development and Tourism of the Borrower; the Director of Commerce of the
Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Mining of the Borrower, the Director of BND,
the Permanent Secretary of O.R.D's and the Presidents of the Dedougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso O.R.D's.


﻿14
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction upon the Borrower's obligations under
paragraph (a) of this Section 4.01, or under Section 4.02 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall:
(i)         cause PU to establish and maintain accounts which will properly
reflect the application of funds to the various components of
the Project;
(ii)        cause the Group Ranch Development Center (A) to establish
and maintain separate accounts in respect of each Group Ranch,
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices their respective operations and
financial condition, and to identify expenditures incurred for
purposes of Part A of the Project; and (B) to submit such
accounts to BND twice annually;
(iii)       cause each Project O.R.D. to establish and maintain separate
accounts in respect of the veterinary services to be provided
under Part B of the Project;
(iv)        cause the Bobo-Dioulasso O.R.D. to establish and maintain
separate accounts in respect of the Group Ranch Development
Center;
(v)         cause ONERA to establish and maintain a satisfactory accounting
system with respect to its Project related operations under the
supervision of an experienced accountant; and
(vi)        cause BND    to maintain separate accounts in respect of its
receipts and expenditures in relation to Parts A(1), of the
Project.


﻿15
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause BND, ONERA and each Project
O.R.D. to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices their respective operations and financial
condition.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause (i) BND to: have its respective accounts
(including the separate accounts to be maintained by BND in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement) and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) ONERA, each Project O.R.D. and the Group Ranch Development
Center to have the separate accounts to be maintained by ONERA, O.R.D. and
the Group Ranch Development Center, respectively, in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement, for each fiscal year
audited in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (iii) BND, ONERA, each Project
O.R.D. and the Group Ranch Development Center, respectively, to furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iv) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of any of said agencies and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall inform, as and when needed, the Association regarding its pricing and
marketing policies in the livestock subsector.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause ONERA, the Group Ranches and
the Group Ranch Development Center to take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿16
(a)   a default shall occur on the part of the Borrower or BND in the
performance of any of its respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(b)   the Borrower's Law   No. 6/61/AN   of January 23, 1961, Law
No. 20/65/AN of July 28, 1965, Decree No. 103 PRES.DEV.T dated March 14,
1966, Decree No. 70-251 PRES/AGRI-EL, dated October 13, 1970, and Decree
No. 75-139 PRES AN, dated April 17, 1975, establishing or governing the
operations of the BND, or the Bobo-Dioulasso O.R.D., and the Dedougou O.R.D.,
and ONERA respectively, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the ability of the
Borrower to carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations under this
Agreement or the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Borrower or BND
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(c)   the measures referred to in Section 6.01(d) of this Agreement shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived without the approval
of the Association.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and BND; and
(b)   any of the events specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the PU Project Director has been appointed and has taken up his duties;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and the BND, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary governmental and corporate action;


﻿17
(c)   the Borrower has authorized under arrangements acceptable to the
Association, a treasury overdraft (avance de tresorerie) for PU in an amount of
CFAF60 million and for BND in an amount of CFAF60 million, to prefinance
the investment costs of the Project, and all governmental measures have been taken
to provide that said funds are available to PU and BND, respectively, for said
purposes;
(d)   the Borrower has taken all such measures in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association, as are necessary to designate the Group Ranch
Development Area a special development area and to enable Participating Groups
to obtain security of tenure under leases with a term of not less than 50 years;
and
(e)   The Borrower and ONERA have entered into the arrangements, in form
and substance acceptable to the Association referred to in paragraph (f) of Section
3.05 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and BND,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
PND, respectively, in accordance with its terms;
(b)   that the authorization for treasury overdrafts referred to in Section
6.01(c) of this Agreement has been approved by all necessary governmental action
and the funds so allocated are available to PU and BND, respectively, for the
purposes referred to;
(c)   the measures referred to in Section 6.01(d) of this Agreement have
been duly and validly taken, and Participating Groups are enabled, by virtue thereof,
to obtain security of tenure in relation to Group Ranches under leases with a
term of not less than 50 years; and
(d)   the arrangements referred to under paragraph (e) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement have been duly authorized and ratified by the Borrower and
ONERA, respectively, and constitute valid and binding obligations of the Borrower
and ONERA, respectively, in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date September 16, 1975 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿18
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.02 through
4.04 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date eighteen (18) years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for
Finances of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Ouagadougou
Haute Volta
Cable address:
MINIFINANCES
OUAGADOUGOU
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
WASHINGTON, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿19
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
By /s / Tilsphore Yaguibou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿20
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil works
for:
(a) Group Ranch
Development
(i)        Group              1,160,000
Ranches
(ii)       Group Ranch          170,000
Development
Center
(b)  Veterinary                      370,000          75%
Services under
Part B of the
Project
(c)  Livestock mar-                  370,000
keting and meat
processing
(d)  Project                          90,000
Unit
(2)  Vehicles and Equip-
ment for:
(a)  Group Ranch
Development
(i)        Group                490,000
Ranches
(ii)       Group Ranch          110,000
Development
Center
(b)  Veterinary Services             140,000
under Part B of the
Project


﻿21
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              Of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
85%, or 100% of
(c)   Livestock marketing             100,000          foreign expendi-
and meat processing                              tures (c.
3  cost).
(d)   Project                          40,000
Unit                                        3
(3)  Cattle (for Group                    1,130,000         60%
Ranch Development)
(4)  Expenditures for expatriate           970,000          100% of foreign
personnel; foreign training,                           expenditures
and consultants services for
Parts A(2), D and E of the
Project
(5)  Working Capital
Group Ranch Development
(excluding cattle)
(i)  'Working                  250,000
Capital for
the Group Ranches
(ii)  Working                  100,000
Capital for
the Group
Ranch Devel-
opment Center
(6)  Operating Expenses
(a)  Operating Expenses              290,000           45%
oF the Veterinary
Services
(b)   Operating Expenses             310,000           75%
of the Project
Unit and Technical
Services exclud-
ing any expenditures
for expatriate
personnel and
training abroad
(7)  Unallocated                        2,910,000
TOTAL              9,000,0%


﻿22
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower; provided, however, that
if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory
of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such
goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures";
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)   The term   "Working Capital for the Group Ranches" means such
working capital as is referred to in subparagraph 7 of paragraph A of Schedule
5 to this Agreement;
(d)   the term "Working Capital for the Group Ranch Development Center"
means such working capital as is referred to in subparagraph 10 of paragraph A
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(e)   the term "Operating Costs of the Veterinary Service" means all those
expenditures occurring in the carrying out of a vaccination and cattle drenching
service, including wages and salaries, building maintenance and repairs, vehicle
operation and maintenance, maintenance of equipment, costs of vaccines and drugs,
and office expenses during the first three years of the carrying out of the Project;
and
(f)   the term "Operating Costs of the Project Unit and Technical Services"
means all those expenditures occurring in the carrying out of the functions of
said Project Unit and Technical Services including local salaries, maintenance of
buildings and equipment, vehicle operation and maintenance, office and travel
expenses, local training, field trials and cadastral surveys, but excluding any
expenditures for expatriate personnel or training abroad.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Association.


﻿23
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; or
(b)   expenditures in respect of Part A(1) of the Project, until a Group
Ranch Statute, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, has been
approved by all necessary governmental action and is in full force and effect in
relation to the Group Ranch in respect of which the withdrawal is requested.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿24
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is a comprehensive five-year (1976-1980) program      of the
Borrower to assist livestock production in the Borrower's Dedougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso O.R.D.s, through group ranch development and the improvement
of livestock marketing, meat processing and veterinary services. The Project will
assist about 300,000 traditional cattle producers and, in addition, will introduce
modern commercial ranching to the traditional sector.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:     Group Ranching
(1)   The establishment of nine group ranches of about 15,000 hectares each
in the Group Ranch Development Area, including inter alia in respect
of each Group Ranch: (A) investments in surveying, water
development, pasture improvement, firebreaks, farm tracks, fencing,
stock handling facilities, staff housing, farm equipment, breeding stock,
and steers; and (B) the provision of working capital. Investments for
each of the Group Ranches will be phased over about three years,
with about three ranches to be established in each of the years 1976,
1977 and 1978, or in accordance with such other phasing schedule
as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
(2)   The establishment of a Group       Ranch   Development Center at
Samorogouan, to provide technical support to the Group Ranches to
be established under Part A(1) of the Project, and to provide assistance
to crop farmers in the Group Ranch Development Area, including
investments in staff housing, offices, farm equipment, machinery, farm
infrastructure, draft oxen and provision for working capital.
Part B:     Veterinary Services
A program   to provide improved veterinary services throughout the
Dedougou and Bobo-Dioulasso O.R.D.s, over a period of 5 years, including
(i) vaccination of all cattle against rinderpest for two consecutive years and
annual vaccination of weaners thereafter; (ii) annual vaccination of all cattle
against contagious bovine pleuropneumonia; (iii) vaccination of cattle against
anthrax, blackleg and pasteurellosis; and (iv) annual dosing of young stock
for gastrointestinal parasites. The facilities and other items to be provided


﻿25
for purposes of said program include buildings for two sector headquarters,
about five veterinary posts, staff housing, about 36 new vaccination yards,
the repair of about 23 existing vaccination yards, vehicles, veterinary
equipment, a stock of vaccines and drugs for about two years, and other
operating costs for about three years.
The program will reach about 80% of the total cattle population in
the Project Area by 1979.
Part C:     Livestock Marketing
(1)   Improvement of the three stock routes:
(a)        Ou.ahigouya-Tougan-Dedougou-Dobo-Dioulasso;        (b)
Djibasso-Kouka; and (c) Mali-Soin-Nouna-Kouka-Bobo-Dioulasso
covering about 730 km, of which 250 km leading through cultivated
areas are to be demarcated, so as to provide stock water and grazing
at intervals of about 25 km along the routes so as to include about
thirty small holding grounds of about 50 ha each.
(2)   Provision  of a holding ground    of about 6,000 hectares near
Bobo-Dioulasso, including three watering points and about 40 km of
firebreaks.
(3)   Construction  and   operation  of  a  new   livestock  market  at
Bobo-Dioulasso to replace the existing market, with a daily capacity
of about 200 head of cattle and 200 sheep and goats, including inter
alia provision of surveying, fenced yards for cattle, sheep and goats,
water supply, vaccination crush, weightbridges, a railway connection
and loading ramp, and an office and shelter.
(4)   Construction of about 15 wells along the routes referred to under Part
C(2) of the Project.
Part D:     Meat Processing
The renovation of the existing municipal slaughterhouse at
Bobo-Dioulasso, so as to allow inter alia for on-the-line butchering.
Part E:     Training, Research, Project Monitoring and Preparation
(1)   Provision of in-service training for local staff, and overseas
fellowships for selected professionals in ranch management, dairy production,


﻿26
pig production and agricultural economics, and study tours for the Project
Director and Group Ranch leaders to group ranches in Kenya, and other
senior staff to a country with a well-developed livestock industry.
(2)   Carrying out field trials, including field trials for methods of
stylosanthes establishment, management of natural and improved pastures,
and cattle fattening by smallholders. This Part of the Project includes
provision to the Borrower's Ministry of Rural Development of additional
seed, fertilizer, veterinary supplies, consultants' services and cattle for
smallholder fattening.
(3)   The carrying out of studies to identify livestock projects.
*                  * P  
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿27
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.2 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    (a)   Contracts for cattle purchases, on-farm development, seeds and other
agricultural inputs, and vaccines, shall be let according to the Borrower's usual
procedures.
(b)   Civil works contracts (including the purchase of equipment for said
works) for buildings and construction, for the installation of 88 wells along stock
routes, for ranch development and for the rehabilitation of the Bobo-Dioulasso
slaughterhouse shall be awarded in accordance with local competitive bidding
procedures based on local advertising.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Upper Volta may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which wilt be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:


﻿28
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Upper Volta if
the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the
Borrower and the Association that the manufacturing cost of
such goods includes a value added in Upper Volta equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Upper
Volta.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importe'r would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts.
With respect to all contracts for vehicles, equipment and civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further


﻿29
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿30
SCHEDULE 4
Project Unit
For the purpose of providing coordination for the carrying out of the Project,
and for project monitoring, livestock planning, field trials, studies, and training
a Project Unit (PU) shall be established and maintained within the Borrower's
Ministry of Planning, Rural Development and Tourism and shall be located in
Bobo-Dioulasso, with the following key staffing, powers and responsibilities.
1.    Key Staffing of PU
(a)   a Project Director, a Voltaic national to be responsible through
a Policy and Steering Committee referred to under Section 3.21
of this Agreement, to the Minister of Planning, Rural
Development and Tourism; the Project Director shall be the
manager and coordinator of the Project and in that capacity
he would be responsible for the Project to proceed according
to projected time schedules and to desired standards.
(b)   an Assistant Director    - Agro-economist, to    be recruited
internationally and, Linder the direction of the PU Project
Director, to be responsible for the financial and agro-economic
aspects of the Project including (i) assistance in the preparation
and the supervision of investment plans, (ii) the preparation of
proposals for project monitoring and evaluation, (iii) cooperation
with the Department of Livestock, the preparation of field trials,
of curricula for in-service training, and of proposals for overseas
training, and (iv) the identification and preparation of future
livestock projects;
(c)   a Civil Engineer to be recruited internationally for a three year
period, to be responsible, under the direction of the Project
Director, for the civil works and rural infrastructure aspects of
the Project;
(d)   a Livestock Specialist to be recruited at the end of the third
year of the carrying out of the Project and, under the direction
of the Project Director, to be concerned with the identification
and preparation of future livestock projects;
(e)   an Accountant qualified and experienced and to be responsible
for the PU accounts; and


﻿31
(f)   Voltaic Counterparts   shall  second  the   above-mentioned
expatriate personnel.
2.    Powers and responsibilities of PU:
(a)   PU shall ensure that no investment plans shall be financed under the
Project unless such plans had been evaluated and approved by PU as
to their technical, financial, and economic viability;
(b)   PU shall establish and maintain or cause to maintain accounts which
shall properly reflect the application of funds to the various
components of the Project;
(c)   PU  shall supervise and assist in the carrying out of the project
operations, in particular:
(i)         prepare in cooperation with the Bobo-Dioulasso O.R.D.
and the Directorate of Livestock Services detailed plans
and tender documents for the establishment of the Group
Ranch Development Center at Samorogouan;
(ii)        prepare in cooperation with the Bobo-Dioulasso and
Dedougou O.R.D.s and the Directorate of Livestock
Services plans and tender documents for the veterinary
component of the Project;
(iii)       assist the Bobo-Dioulasso O.R.D. in selecting consultants for
pedological and sociological studies in the Samorogouan
Group Ranch Development Area;
(iv)        to prepare in cooperation with the Project O.R.D.s and
the Directorate of Livestock Services plans and tender
documents for the development of stock routes, holding
grounds and the Bobo-Dioulasso market;
(v)         prepare in cooperation with the responsible agencies of
the Borrower terms of reference and select consultants for
the preparation of detailed plans and tender documents
for   the   reconstruction  of   the   Bobo-Dioulasso
slaughterhouse; and
(vi)        plan, in cooperation with the Project O.R.D.s and the
Directorate of Livestock Services, field trials, such as


﻿32
studies on the management of natural pasture, the use of
firebreaks, pasture improvement, smallholder fattening etc.
(d)   PU shall assist the Borrower in the timely selection of qualified and
experienced staff for employment by the Project executing department
and agencies of the Borrower.
(e)   PU shall prepare, in consultation with the Association, for in-service
and overseas training for Voltaic staff;
(f)   PU shall prepare a plan for project monitoring and evaluation to be
submitted to the Policy and Steering Committee for transmittal to
the Association within a year of the Effective Date. Such plan shall
become operational after approval by the Association. PU shall prepare
and submit progress reports to the Ministry of Planning, Rural
Development and Tourism, for transmittal to the Association;
(g)   PU shall carry out studies to identify and prepare, inter alia, project
possibilities in smallholder fattening and milk production; and
(h)   PU shall prepare detailed investment plans for an agricultural credit
and rural infrastructure program in the Group Ranch Development
Area.


﻿33
SCHEDULE 5
Operating Policies and Procedures
for the Carrying Out of the Project
A.    Group Ranching under Part A of the Project
1.   Planning   and  Preparation. The   Bobo-Dioulasso  O.R.D. through    its
Samorogouan Group Ranch Development Center, shall be responsible for:
(a)   appointing in consultation with the local administration of the
Borrower and PU a Local Steering Committee of no more than ten
members, comprising leaders of the Peulh (chefs de campement) and
crop-farming communities (chefs de terre), local Administration
officials and the Development Center Manager. This committee shall
assist in solving issues and shall advise the Development Center Manager
on organizational matters concerning the group ranches; and
(b)   after identification of a group ranch area, hearings shall be held with
potential  group   ranch  members    and   with  non-participating
agriculturalists to explain and discuss the nature and operations of
group ranches.
*            2.    Membership. After identification of a group ranch area, about 35 pastoralist
families and 150 cattle-owning crop farmers shall be selected as members from
the resident population; applicants from elsewhere shall be acceptable only with
the consent of the residents and the Development Center Manager. The rights and
obligations of the members, as defined in the group ranch statute, shall include:
(a)   the right to reside in the group ranch area in a location acceptable
to the Group Ranch Committee and to the Development Center
Manager;
(b)   the right to graze a certain number of individually-owned cattle, sheep
and goats measured in tropical animal units (UBT) (cattle over 3 years
= 1 UBT, sheep and goats = 0.2 UBT per head) in the group ranch
area reflecting existing herd size before development, and to benefit
from the increased grazing capacity expected to result from group
ranch development. The distribution of grazing rights shall be revised,
as and when needed, by the Group Ranch Committee in accordance
with the above criteria;
(c)   an equal share in the surplus deriving from collectively-owned and
managed cattle, which shall take up about 40% of the grazing capacity
of the group ranch area;


﻿34
(d)   individual voting rights in group ranch affairs;
(e)   the transfer of all cattle to collective management which are not
required for subsistence of the members (cows plus calves) or as draft
animals for cultivation, but continuation of individual cattle ownership;
(f)   obligations as to management practices for individually kept livestock
in the group ranch area in accordance with the group ranch statutes
and as generally laid down from time to time by the Development
Center Manager;
(g)   payment of management fees to the group ranch for services rendered
to individually-owned livestock to be determined by the Group Ranch
Manager in consultation with the Development Center Manager;
(h)   delegation to a Group Ranch Committee of the right to enter into
debt commitments on behalf of the group ranch members;
(i)   individual liability for group ranch obligations, proportionate to the
individual's share in grazing rights on the group ranch; and
(j)   the right to give up group ranch membership after payment of all
financial obligations and redistribution of said grazing rights in
accordance with decisions of the Group Ranch Committee.
3.    Group Ranch Committee. A five-member Group Ranch Committee shall be
elected by members. It would consist of pastoralists and livestock-owning crop
farmer members. The Group Ranch Committee shall:
(a)   sign the application for registration of the group ranch;
(b)   undergo basic training, arranged for by the Development Center
Manager, in order to be able to control ranch business affairs as
necessary;
(c)   in cooperation with the Development Center Manager prepare a ranch
development plan and forward a Ranch Development Loan application
to BND;
(d) propose an annual group ranch budget to the annual general meeting
of the Group ranch; and


﻿35
(e)   the employment of group ranch managers and their assistant managers
by the Group Ranch Development Center shall be made after
consultation with the Group Ranch Committee.
4.    Management. Cattle owned by group ranch members shall be transferred to
collective management, excepting cows required for subsistence milk production,
their calves, and draft animals required for cultivation. Feeder steers for fattening
shall be purchased collectively, and not be transferred to individual ownership.
Group ranch operating costs shall include salaries and wages, maintenance of farm
structures and vehicles, administration fees and land rent, and the cost of animal
management. Such costs shall be shared as follows on a per tropical animal unit
basis:
(a)   collectively-owned and managed livestock shall be purchased on ranch
account, and in addition to the identifiable special costs, an overhead
fee shall be deducted from the proceeds of the sale of this livestock
at the end of the fattening period;
(b)   individually-owned, but collectively managed livestock shall be charged
with a management fee comprising the special costs of collective
management and an overhead fee; the fee shall become due at the
beginning of a financial year and shall be deducted from the proceeds
from individually-owned but collectively-marketed livestock; and
(c)   individually-owned  and   individually-managed  livestock  (mainly
lactating cows with calves and work oxen) shall be charged with an
overhead fee only, to become due at the beginning of a fiscal year,
and to be collected as deduction from the proceeds from the sale of
individually-owned but collectively-marketed livestock. Group ranch
fees shall be adjusted annually by the Development Center Manager.
5.    The Group    Ranch   Manager shall be responsible for the day-to-day
management of group ranch affairs including:
(a)   development and maintenance of demarcations and fences;
(b)   appropriate pasture management;
(c)   development and appropriate utilization of about 600 ha stylosanthes
pastures as dry season grazing reserve;
(d)   control of grass fires through development and maintenance of
firebreaks;


﻿36
(e)   development and operation of stock watering, dipping and cattle
handling facilities;
(f)   enforcement of vaccination, drenching and of other animal health
practices as required;
(g)   branding of all stock;
(h)   appropriate selection and culling techniques;
(i)   purchase of feeder steers to be owned and managed collectively;
(j)   selling of slaughter stock without unnecessary delays;
(k)   keeping financial and accounting records as required by the Group
Ranch Development Center for accounting purposes; and
(1)   collection of group ranch fees.
6.    Ranch staff to be employed for general ranch labor and communal herd
management shall be recruited mainly among group ranch members and their
families.
7.    Group Ranch Development Loans. Following the preparation of the Group
Ranch Development Plan and Group Ranch Development Loan application by the
Development Center Manager, and upon its approval by the Group Ranch
Committee and the PU Project Director, BND shall enter into an agreement with
the Group Ranch for a Ranch Development Loan with conditions referred to in
Schedule 6 of this Development Credit Agreement.
Working capital shall be financed under the Group Ranch Development Loan
for the first two years, when there shall be negligible incremental livestock sales,
but increased operating costs. Such working capital to be so financed shall include
said increased operating costs including: (i) the collective purchase and management
of feeder steers; (ii) the collective management of individually owned livestock,
and (iii) improved basic services (vaccination, dipping, etc.) for individually-managed
livestock and including salaries and wages, maintenance of farm structures, vehicle
and equipment maintenance and operation, and annual management costs plus an
amount equal to 25% of the estimated shortfall to cover accounts receivable, and
other liabilities of such Group Ranch.
Group Ranch members shall pay fees during the first two years of operation
of the Group Ranch, equivalent to their cash expenses for livestock management


﻿37
before development as estimated by the Development Center Manager. The
remainder shall be financed from a Group Ranch Development Loan, on the basis
of estimates in the group ranch budget prepared by the Development Center
Manager, as approved by the Project Unit, and to be reviewed annually by such
Development Center Manager.
8.    The Group Ranch Development Center shall operate under a qualified and
experienced General Manager. The Center shall:
(a)   with the assistance of the Local Steering Committee select group ranch
areas, survey and demarcate such areas, and select participants for each
group ranch;
(b)   prepare investment plans for each group ranch and arrange and
supervise contracts for planning and constructing water supplies, roads
and firebreaks for the ranches;
(c)   establish a central workshop, to repair and maintain tractors and
equipment for the ranches;
(d)   provide technical assistance in ranch management;
(e)   establish a stylosanthes (or other) seed production farm to supply the
group ranches;
(f)   provide in-service training for group ranch managers and herders;
(g)   purchase, train and sell work oxen to crop farmers and train farmers
in the management and use of draft oxen; and
(h)   keep group ranch accounts and forward them twice annually to the
Bobo-Dioulasso O.R.D., PU and BND for audit.
9.    The loan referred to in paragraph (c) of Section 3.05 of this Agreement
for the Group Ranch Development Center shall finance fixed investments and
working capital over a three-year period.
Repayment of the Group Ranch Development Center loan referred to in
paragraph (c) of Section 3.05 of this Agreement shall commence at the start of
the sixth year after the start of the carrying out of the Project. Investment plans
and tender documents shall be prepared by the Bobo-Dioulasso O.R.D. in
cooperation with the PU, and approved by the Association. The Center shall keep
AL-


﻿38
its own accounts and annual budgets, prepared by the Development Center Manager,
which shall be forwarded by the Bobo-Dioulasso O.R.D's General Manager to the
PU Project Director for approval.
Group ranches shall each start payment of one-ninth of the Group Ranch
Development Center operating costs starting the second year of their development
and such costs shall cover all operating costs not covered by sales revenue from
the fourth year after the start of the carrying out of the Project (hereinafter referred
to for purposes of this Schedule 5 as Group Ranch Contributions).
Working capital to be financed under the Project during the first three years
of the carrying out of the Project shall be the operating costs, including salaries
and wages, maintenance of farm structures, vehicle and equipment maintenance
and operation, office and travelling expenses, purchase of steers and animal
management costs, which are not covered by sales nor by Group Ranch
Contributions, plus an amount equal to 25% of the estimated shortfall to cover
accounts receivable and other current liabilities.
B.    Veterinary Services under Part B of the Project
Investments shall be planned and prepared in detail by the end of June for
the following dry season, in cooperation with the Director of Livestock and assisted
by PU.
C.    Livestock Marketing Facilities under Part C of the Project
1.    All cultivation shall be prohibited within the demarcated areas of stock
routes, holding grounds and the Bobo-Dioulasso livestock market.
2.    Fees for the utilization of livestock marketing facilities shall be collected
by ONERA.
3.    Facilities which are constructed or upgraded under Parts C and D of the
Project shall be transferred after the works under Parts C and D of the Project
have been completed to ONERA which shall be responsible for their management.
4.    Marketing and slaughter fees shall be reviewed by the Borrower as and when
necessary, in consultation with the Association.


﻿39
SCHEDULE 6
Summary of Terms and Conditions
of Subsidiary Loan Agreement
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall provide, inter alia, for an undertaking
by BND to relend the amounts lent to it by the Borrower in accordance with
Section 3.05(e) of the Development Credit Agreement, and to lend out of its own
resources to Participating Groups, such amounts as shall be required to meet the
costs of the investments to be undertaken for purposes of Part A(1) of the Project,
at an interest rate of 10% per annum, for a term of thirteen (13) years including
six (6) years of grace, estimated to amount in the aggregate to the equivalent
of about $6,400,000 including contingencies.


